Jane Fraser - Citigroup CEO
Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Well, thank you very much indeed, Mike. I'll start with who is Citi. Citi is, I'm delighted to say, finally simple. At Investor Day, I set out a vision to be the preeminent banking partner for clients' cross-border needs. That vision was based on five core interconnected businesses. We set out on a deliberate path to get there, and over the last three years, we've done so.

We are five interconnected businesses. No more, no less. Our organization now aligns with those five businesses, and this enables us to focus on two priorities. The first is improving the performance and the returns of those five core businesses so that we can meet the medium-term RoTCE target we laid out. And the second is addressing our regulatory issues through the transformation.

I fully recognize that 2024 is an inflection year. I and the management team are accountable to deliver, and you and our investors have the transparency needed to hold us accountable.

Look, it's not lost on me that there have been many attempts in the past to change this firm. I and the management are fully committed to transforming this company for the long-term and we are addressing the issues that have held us back in the past.

We completely reset our strategy. So we now have a significantly more focused business and operating model. We've announced the most consequential set of changes to our organizational model. And frankly, from my perspective, more importantly, how we run the bank, since the financial crisis aimed at simplifying the bank and increasing accountability.

We've invested heavily in our transformation. And while that was capitalized by our consent orders, these investments will ultimately deliver benefits from automation from well governed data from consolidated platforms. We also have made significant investments in our business to support the 4% to 5% revenue growth and to ensure client momentum.

We are doing things the right way. We're doing it for the long-term and we're moving with urgency. We will need and are spending the money that we need to, to address our regulatory requirements, but that's already embedded in our path to the 11% to 12% RoTCE in the medium term. 