Tricia Griffith - CEO

Our sole concentration last year was to get the right rate on the street. And we feel like we're in a really great position right now. If you think about the overarching belief that we have the right rates in the system, and we believe we do now understand there's all the caveats about we don't have every state.

We're still working with some states to get rate. But for the most part, we feel really good about our rate. This is how we're thinking about growth, really sort of the trifecta.

We have a continued hard market. Mbient shopping is still up. We know our competitors are still getting rate.

Those customers are shopping and we're able to get that at a really inexpensive acquisition cost. Then we also know that we're unraveling a lot of our non-rate actions, our underwriting actions. We talked about that a little bit in November, but we're going to continue to do that.

And then really the third part of that trifecta is our ability to be able to spend a lot on media. We are really excited about heading into 2024. Obviously, my whole theme for the annual report was uncertainty.

Or the letter I should say, is uncertainty. We feel much more certain and much more confident we will watch as the data unfolds, and we're pretty excited. The one caveat I would say, Mike, is when we're starting to look at first quarter of this year versus first quarter of last year, you're going to see some really odd comparisons on new App growth.

We are growing new Apps like crazy last year. In fact, on the Direct Side, our new apps were up 93. Overall, in Auto up, I think, like 83 or 82.

Huge comparisons if you're going to compare it to this quarter. Keep that in mind as this quarter closes, we believe it will smooth out over the year, but that's something we should just make a note of. I think our continuous product model is our secret sauce.

Over the years, I think we've sort of shared not in a lot of detail, but how each model sort of adds segmentation and gets us to where we want, especially with the preferred customer. UBI is a big part of it and has been for a long time, and that will continue to be and why we're investing more and more into our latest product model, which is our continuous. I think with the Florida added this year, we're at about 70 continuous, and we're learning a lot from that.

And we'll be able to do a lot for our customers as well. Maybe at some time when we do some of the deep dives, we can share a little bit more about how we think about our product mass ph. We're never going to share a secret sauce because that is just that.

But we literally have our RD departments working in both Personal Lines, Commercial Lines and Property, nonstop, thinking about the next model to just get that extra piece of data to understand how it correlates to loss costs. Yes, I would say back to more historical levels. We've had a couple, several rough years where we've had to pull back on media.

I mentioned that in my letter. We have a media machine, a marketing machine and both are working really well, and we want to leverage that. We're not going to spend if we don't think it's efficient.

When I talked about our growth in sort of the trifecta, we're getting a lot of ambient shopping still, and we'll continue to watch that. However, we think there's an opportunity to kind of open up the spigot and get more business in the door. We feel like we're in a really prime time now, especially with our rates.

While we're not going to share our full budget, we believe we can spend assuming all things with our pricing is right and we get some pricing and some rate in some of the states that we need, I think we'll be able to spend a tremendous amount to really leverage what we think could be a great growth year. I think that has to do a lot with timing. Lot of our competitors have increased rates as well pretty substantially.

There's a sort of a time frame. I don't know exactly when that is. But right now, we believe, we are able to take market share.

Gain, there'll be some, at some point, there'll be stable rates throughout the industry and there'll be less shopping. Really, the key for us in terms of market share will be to grab as much new business at or below our target market -- target profit. And really, the holy grail is retention and keeping those customers.

The key this year for us because we've had so many years of rate after rate is to have some stability for our customers. Of course, we'll watch the trends, and we'll have to react to those trends. But I'd like some stable rates because I think if we've got the new business coming in the door and then people staying with us, that is a huge win.

And then, of course, Robinsons, we've continued to grow. We're excited about continuing to invest in our HomeQuote Explorer and the Progressive Advantage Agency. Working with great partners in that.

I think any time you have an economies of scale, you'll be able to push down the expense ratio. We're always trying to balance out our expenses with investments and what the customers want. Digital and other things like that.

The bigger you get, I think the more you can, whether it's brand or expenses you can push on that, but we have been investing a lot in digital for our customers, and we'll continue to do that. One of our other pillars, and we talked about broad coverage today is competitive prices. And the two parts of competitive prices are really what we talked about a little bit earlier with Mike's question, that's segmentation having industry-leading segmentation.

And the other is expenses. And we are constantly challenging ourselves to what's that right balance of investing, but getting those economies of scale. We'll continue to work on that for as long as I'm here for sure.

And as long as John Sauerland is for sure. I can let Pat take that. We, our commissions have been pretty stable and we have different structures depending on if we have a Platinum agent and some other programs we have with different agents I think, I don't want to speak too specifically to our competitors because they also ebb and flow.

I don't think you're going to expect as much of a different trend in PIF than New Apps. New Apps were up just so much. Like I said, 92 in direct, 83 overall.

It was just a tremendous quarter and we actually tried to slow growth. You're just going to see a little bit of a negative trend. But I think PIFs, of course, are not just new apps or also our retention.

And our preferred year to growth is unit growth because as you've seen over these years where average written premium can go up and down, that's where you want the unit growth to be able to have that stable value company. It's pretty good on our book. Yes, I would, anything with -- that begins with one and another number, I'm pretty impressed with PIF growth with the book of our size.

No, I think we're seeing competitors reenter the market, and that's why we believe it's a good time. We're still seeing, like I said, some ambient shopping, but I think it's going to be a really competitive year for everyone, and we're excited about it. We want to grow as much as we possibly can while we make at least 0. 04 of underwriting profit.

We're going to continue, we're not going to have a ceiling with that. What we will do is understand the addressable market. And kind of go across both, all of our lines of business to understand where we need to invest, where we need to, where we think we can gain more share.

And that's really why we diversify. That's really why we've had the HomeQuote Explorer, BusinessQuote Explorer, AutoQuote Explorer to be able to gather more market share, be transparent for our customers and give them an easy way to shop and save even if it's not with us. That's also one of the reasons why years ago, we set a construct together that we used this McKinsey construct that were called the Three Horizons.

And the first one is execute. We've been working on that since 2016, 2017, and that is execute the heck out of growing or getting as much on private passenger auto and commercial auto and home business that we can as long as we're making money. And we've done extraordinarily well.

They're obviously surpassing 61 billion in premiums for 2023. The second horizon is the exciting part in Commercial Lines where we've been growing our BMTs there, but we also have some expansion coverage that we're excited about. We just entered our 45th state with Florida last week.

We obviously bought Protective to have larger fleets. We're now calling Protective just so , Progressive fleet and specialty. And of course, our TNC business.

Those ancillary products that where we believe we have the right to play and the right to win, and those have been really exciting expansion for Karen and her group. And then Horizon 3 is a little bit further afield, but those are some products that we believe will fit unmet customer needs and you think kind of longer-term out. We're constantly in a cycle of three years, five years, 10 years.

And in fact, we have our Board retreat later this week to outline how we intend to continue to grow market share across the board and do so in a profitable manner. We're excited about the future. We're excited about the position we're in at this point given the extreme amount of uncertainty in the last four years.

And if there's any team that can do it, it is the team here in Cleveland, Ohio. We're, it's typical, some of the typical states you've talked about on the coast, think of New Jersey, New York, California on the direct side. We just got a plus 20 on California agency.

That is a good move towards that. We're having continued conversations because this is really about the consumer. We want to have availability for each consumer to be able to get the coverage they need to protect the things that they love.

And all we want to do is try to make 0. 04 of underwriting profits. We're going to continue to work with each insurance department to get the rate that we need and then be fully open and available for those consumers. Me of the marketing spend, we already like pre-buy.

That's sort of out there. And then other that we have like digital and some other areas where we can be more fluid will react to what's happening in the environment. If we feel like that our MP6 is down, which is our new prospects, we can increase it.

We're always going to do it and try to be efficient around it. That's really the game plan. And again, it has to do with what our customers are doing -- I'm sorry, our competitors are doing.

It's not an easy question. We continually tweak it to make sure we're efficient while bringing as much new business in the door that we can and then we have some that will already be on the books. Do you want to add anything, Pat?

Yes, I don't forget about our other lever, and that is opening up and unraveling our non-rate actions. We've got a couple of different things in play, and that's the reason to believe, and our reason to believe that we can capture a lot of market share this year. That's another avenue that we've continued to do since late last year.

I would say the January decrease. The majority of that was Florida. Most of the other states were pretty tight.

Gain, it's one month, and we will let that year play out. Gary's team looks at a lot of data each and every month just to make sure were adequately reserved, and I'll let his team do that. And I'd like Gary do the right thing on behalf of the company, but I wouldn't read too much into January.

It's obviously, we're pleased to have favorable development, but it was mostly Florida. It's really hard to size because I think I feel like we've never been tighter in our non-rate actions than we were last year. Gain, it's hard to quantify because there's a bunch of different actions we'll do, and we'll do some on different products, different states.

It could be different in channels. I think if you want to have a quicker reaction, the media spend does that. But it's hard to discern exactly what would go into each.

What we do know is we were really tight trying to slow growth, making sure we got rate in the system and now we're able to unwind that. But we're not doing it full bore. We're doing it very logically to make sure that we reach our target profit margins.

I don't know historical at the top of my head, David, but we're pretty excited about both the trailing three and trailing 12 PLE and where we are from a month. And we sort of have internally, David here that we talk about the value of one month of PLE to our lifetime earned premium. I think we're pretty high. , I like the fact that severity seemed to moderate a little bit.

And so we're hoping that it's a little bit benign. When you look at, last year, we were affected by fixing cars, and that seems to be a little bit calmer. I think auto parts inflation is nearing 0 and auto services is in the kind of mid-single-digits.

We're, that's how we're thinking about it. We'll obviously watch if something changed as they did last year. But I'm thinking, I think benign and kind of moderate is what I would say from a severity perspective.

And I feel the same way with indiscernible right in the 8 to 10. I really can't share that because it's different with each state. We're in the midst of talking to the departments and showing our verification for needs for those rates.

Ll I can say is that we'll get what we need to, to be at our target profit margins, or won't be able to be as open, which is like I said, unfortunate for consumers. For the rest of the country, we feel good at the rate we have gotten for the last several years. And so that's really what we're focusing on in addition to the conversations and negotiations with our departments.

I think we're trying to make sure that, well, there's Robinsons everywhere. There could be a different value of the insurability of homes, et cetera. But yes, I think that, obviously, because Robinsons have a property feature to them, and we are getting into more nonvolatile states growth.

You'll see Robinsons growth in those states over time. But it will take some time. We were still in the midst of moving our book a little bit away from Florida, as we discussed with our 115,000 non-renewals that actually we set notices out in January, and those will start to non-renew into another company that we're working with to take those should they want them in May, of this year.

But yes, we're if you read all the data of our PIF growth, our premium growth and our new app growth in nonvolatile versus volatile, we are ahead of plan, but still a long way to go. But we should grow Robinsons in those areas for sure. It was mostly floor to kind of across the board, a couple of different things.

Me were some settlements on glass, some from House Bill. There was a couple of different inputs to the release, we are feeling positive about the tort reform change in Florida. And we're starting to see a little bit of that.

I don't want to get ahead of my skis with that. But we believe, especially the new comp negligence law should be very helpful. But again, we'll watch that really closely because it's still new, and there's a lot of things that can unfold, but we're positive about the changes that have been made in Florida.

There's a lot of things that went to that. I'm trying to think of, I was just thinking of January, too, because some of the weather in January was actually nonvolatile. There's weather just across the board here and there, nothing big with cats.

But I would say a lot of things went into 2023. We didn't have the right rate. We're still working on our segmentation.

We really in earnest just started to be able to de-risk especially in the really volatile states. And I think all those things together kind of put us where we were at the end of the year. We are very, we are, it's a very important thing for the relationships to make sure that their proprietary data is just that, and we don't share it within other places of Progressive.

S an example, there's a company we've worked with for a long time. They're a great partner, and we actually bifurcate the monthly reports, the data because we think that is really important for everyone to have their algorithms and same with ours. If you're talking about expense ratio, I would look, I probably look more directly at our direct expense ratio because that's we're going to hit some of the marketing spend.

And it's pretty low, especially compared, maybe this isn't the right comparison. Especially compared to January of last year, it was like 4. 5 points lower. There will be pressure on the expense ratio.

Even though the marketing spend will be efficient just because it's out there. And you'll see that I would follow the direct spend. If you look at December's direct loss ratio to January.

I think December was a little bit over 12. You're going to start to see that when we put our media budget into play. , I'll let Pat add in. I think to John talked a little bit about the non-acquisition expense rate.

I'll let Pat weigh in a little bit. We are not going to spend just to spend to get up to the 20. We're going to be efficient.

Now for some reason, it gets up to 20, and we are bringing great new business and huge amounts, and we feel great about. That could be one thing. CEO Tricia Griffith - The Progressive Corporation PGR CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call QA Responses Yes.