Andi Owen
MillerKnoll, Inc. (MLKN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Jeff, if you hit on most of it. The thing I would add, Greg, is probably as we look at return to office, particularly in North America, where it has been more sluggish than I think we would have hoped as an industry, we're definitely starting to see people moving to decisions. We're starting to see more people -- having people come back together. All of our research would indicate that this is the way that we need to be moving, so I think we're optimistic about that as well.

Jeff touched on the funnel, but I will say this is better than it's been in two years, which I think is a really encouraging sign for us.

Yes. I mean, I think if you look at all our competitors there, Greg, and kind of across the industry, the residential home furnishings industry, we expect will probably be softer for the next couple of quarters. We are encouraged by new home sales going up. We are encouraged by the real estate market rebounding a little bit, but we still think it will take some time to work through.

So we're really simplifying. We're focusing our efforts on the DWR brand. We're focusing our efforts on Herman Miller and Knoll. And where we've seen some real struggle this past year has been working through inventory, and not just an inventory in North America, but many of our wholesalers internationally, whether that be with HAY, with Knoll around the world have really been sitting on piles of inventory. And as these people are working through that inventory, we expect we will see further profitability. But really we're addressing that through simplification and continuing to focus on building the categories where we are not necessarily maximized right now. So we expect to see a slow climb as demand improves over the year, but we're being very, very prudent in how we invest further in that business right now until the customer comes back full force.

I will say, however, that we've invested quite a bit and quite successfully in building our brands and where we have invested there from a marketing perspective had paid off.

Hey, Budd.

That's correct. That's correct, Budd.

And Budd, just one thing, I don't know if this is really ahead or not, but as Jeff pointed out in his prepared remarks, the bulk of our integration activities and cost to achieve are behind us. We would expect those adjustments to gradually continue to decrease over time.

Yes.

And Budd, I would say from a discounting perspective, we're not seeing pricing pressure. We're not degrading our margin and discounting a ton. That has not been our problem from a margin perspective.

I would say that the international retail businesses, which are primarily wholesale, are the most challenged from a top line and bottom line perspective as most of those wholesalers bought a ton of inventory and based on the supply chain challenges that everyone faced. And when the war in Ukraine started, I think everyone bought up and then demand dropped. So we're seeing a lot of pressure with those wholesalers. Now the good news is we're starting to see them work through that inventory and demand is coming back, but that's really pressured our European businesses.

Yes, yes. Absolutely, yes. It didn't used to which makes it a little bit confusing now, but yes, it does now as part of the global retail member.

Yeah. Where we need to be internally, Budd, it's really just our wholesale partners working through their inventory.

Yeah. That's -- exactly. Not our inventory, but it does affect their ability to buy from us.

Thanks, Budd. Take care.

Hi, Reuben.

Reuben?

He either didn't like it.

Alex, it's a great question. Listen, I think, as I said earlier, we think these first couple of orders we're going to continue to see softer demand. As we turn into calendar year '24, we that we will start to see the consumer come back. We're encouraged by home sales. When people move, that makes a big difference for us.

We think as people adapted to interest rates where they sit today, that makes a difference in what they're purchasing. The great news is our AOV as we look at what the quality of consumer that we're looking at, hasn't really changed. So we're very optimistic about that. We're not having to discount. Our inventory levels are where we want them to be. So right now we are really just focusing on those important brands to us those kind of top three. Focusing on categories that we don't currently maximize and sort of kind of looking to reduce our investment business while we wait for the consumer to come back. I think they're there. But I think right now, they're still spending on travel, they're still spending on other experiences, and we expect that will change as the year goes on.

I would say a difference in demand really kind of goes back to what I was saying earlier. I think we're seeing a little softer demand internationally with our wholesale partners. I really believe that has to do with inventory buildups, I don't necessarily think that has to do with price points in the product.

As I said, we're not having to discount. And that to us is a really important piece of this puzzle. And the quality of the consumer is there. It's taking a little bit longer for people to pull the trigger and purchases, but the quality of the consumer is definitely there.

Thank you.

You're back.

John, do you want to take that one?

Yeah. And maybe just one more thing to add to that that we can't forget throughout the integration process is that as we integrate with Knoll and Miller had a much more robust and efficient operating management system in our plants, and as we've gone through our Knoll operation, we have also reduced inventory pretty substantially as we implemented our Toyota production system that we call MKPS across those plants. So that has also reduced inventory on the contract side and that has been work that's taken us about better part of the last 12 months to 24 months. So we're seeing that efficient and effective inventory management really start to come -- to show up across the entire business.

Thank you, Reuben.

Thanks again, everyone, for joining us on the call. We really appreciate your continued support of MillerKnoll, and we are looking forward to updating you on our next quarterly call. Have a great night.