Carey Smith
Parsons Corporation (PSN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, thank you, Sheila, for the question. Happy Valentine's Day to you as well. So I would say hiring and retention have continued to be strong. Our consistent trailing 12-month book-to- bill of greater than 1.0 has helped us win new programs. We had record win rates this year at 66% with 93% of re-compete. We've secured all four of our major re-compete that are $2 billion programs. And I would say business development is hitting it across the board on all cylinders. What I'm probably most proud of is all four business units deliver double-digit organic growth. So it's not one business unit driving Parsons. All four business units are delivering.

Yes, so we're really pleased with the Middle East growth being over 30% this year. We had some very strong wins and large programs, particularly in Saudi Arabia that occurred, but also doing well in the UAE. North America is also doing extremely well and had strong organic growth. If you look at that, it was 16%. So both organizations are doing well. I would say North America is going to continue to speed up because we haven't hit the peak yet on the Infrastructure, Investment, and Jobs Act. We expect that to be around the 2027 timeframe. But with that said, the Middle East also, that growth is expected to peak somewhere between 2028 and ‘30. The next thing is we've got strong tailwinds in both of our end geographies for the long foreseeable future.

Sure. Thanks for the question. So, this was not one of the two legacy programs that you've heard us refer to previously. Fortunately, we had indicated that one of those programs was going to wrap up the first quarter of this year, which it did. That is going to present a $18 million tailwind for us as we enter this year because we had $18 million write off on that particular program last year. The second legacy program is still on track to complete in the third quarter of this year and that program is 90% and exceeded some recent technical milestones. The program that we had the $20 million impact or the $58 million write-down was due to supply chain impacts from material procurement. It was a job that had been bid back in 2019 prior to COVID. So we got initial quotes at that time.

Once we completed the design several years later and we went back and we refreshed those quotes, we had less supplier availability and those suppliers' prices have gone up. The good news is that this is kind of one off, I'm going to say, within our portfolio because we stopped bidding this type of work years ago. So we don't have other large contracts that have a big majority of material pass through. I'm really pleased that even with this impact, the great job that we've done expanding margins. We were up 13 basis points for the year. We grew EBITDA dollars at 32% with revenue up 30%. So EBITDA is growing faster. And as we looked at 2024, we're going to be expanding our margins by 40 basis points.

Yes, so we're pleased that we were able to win the 15 awards greater than $100 million. And as we announced, we've had two greater than $100 million already as we go into the share. The bid pipeline is very robust. It's the highest it's ever been for our business. It's at $58 billion. Out of the $58 billion, we have 110 awards that are greater than $100 million. We also have a waiting notice of award, $4 billion. And within there, we have eight programs greater than $100 million. And then we've talked about the $14 billion of un-booked backlog. So that's basically comprised of contracts that have option years or un-booked ceiling. And we're confident on good portion of that, being able to convert over the next three years.

And I'll just add to that. So we're looking at both federal and Critical Infrastructure. The size of the deals will continue to be around what we've done in the past. We generally look at companies that are between about $100 million and $500 million annual revenue. But as you noted, we did buy the IS Engineers for $10 million. And the reason for that is that it was located in a key state that's going to have a lot of potential growth. And what you tend to see is smaller deals on the Critical Infrastructure side versus the federal side of the house. We've been very selective. We're going to continue to keep our high bar of companies growing greater than 10% top line, greater than 10% percent EBITDA margin. And we're also looking for companies that have technology differentiation, but a good pipeline.

Yes, so to take the second part first, our visibility is very good. The good news too, we have very low re-compete, which we mentioned on the call, but it's less than 5% as we go into this year. We also have that $14 billion of un-booked contracts, so the visibility and line of sight to that transitioning is good over the next three years. We anticipate roughly 50% of that to transition. How do we keep the momentum going as we continue to keep the laser focus on our six core end markets. Those markets are all growing between 5% to 12% compound annual growth rate. Our goal has been to be differentiated, be a top player in each of those market areas. And one thing I was happy about when you look at our wins across the year and those 15, we won in almost every single area. If you look at environmental remediation, for example, we won work in the mine jobs. We expanded our presence in Army Ammunition Plant modernization.

If you look at cybersecurity, we've been very, very strong with cyber command as well as the GSA job. If you look at Critical Infrastructure protection, the work that we've been doing with the Department of State has been very good. Also, won work in INDOPACOM expanding our footprint there with Kwajalein housing. If you look over on the infrastructure side in transportation, we were awarded what at the time was our biggest design job since IPO with JFK highways. We just surpassed that with the infrastructure job that I announced on the call today, which will now be our new biggest design job that we've had.

And then finally, urban development. The team over in the Middle East has just done an amazing job of securing our position on all the giga projects and the fact that we're not even going to see a peak there until later 2028 to 2030 timeframe. I think we've got a lot of momentum in the business.

Yes, so from a risk perspective, the conflicts really don't pertain to the type of work we do because we're really doing infrastructure. I would call it helping Saudi really build out their infrastructure, whether it’s transportation infrastructure, whether it's new industrial cities, whether it's new entertainment and tourism, the building is just going on across the country and will continue for a long time. It's great for all the people that live there because they'll have places to go for entertainment, their education system is getting improved, their healthcare is getting improved, so I would say that's terrific. On the conflict side where we would see potential opportunities in our Federal Solutions business because of the type of areas we play in, whether that's cyber security, missile defense, intelligence type of work, we also do some RF emulator projects that we've seen deployed. Our geographic dispersion, we are the largest in Saudi Arabia, about 60%, 65% of our business is there.

That's also been our fastest growing followed by the UAE, which has had strong growth. UAE's focus has been on mixed use developments and continuing to build out whether it's Dubai or Abu Dhabi, which most of our work there is. We did recently the UAE World Expo. In Qatar, we were heavily involved in the World Cup. We did the traffic management system for that. We also did the Lusail City, which we were recognized as an outstanding consultant for our performance there.

I would say Qatar will probably out of the three of those be the slowest with Saudi being the fastest followed by UAE.

And that M&A really helps our momentum as well, whether it's if I look at the three recent deals SealingTech really expanded our presence in defensive cyber, we were strong and offensive now we can cover full spectrum cyber operations. I talked about IS Engineers expanding our presence in Texas, the two of us together can move up the value chain and bid and win larger jobs and then IP keys is kind of nice at the intersection between federal and Critical Infrastructure providing cyber compliance for energy and water companies, so those -- all those acquisitions as well as the ones that we've done in prior years are helping momentum.

Yes, so the 7% is roughly equal with federal being a little bit higher growth. And as far as upside I would say across the portfolio again because if you look at the 15 wins, we've had in 2023 greater than $100 million and the two that we just announced this year so far, it's across the board in all six of those end market areas, so it really affects all four of the business units.

So I would say first fourth quarter is always late for federal government services, third quarter is usually kind of a peak but I would say the trailing 12 months is what we look at which is very important and that's been a 1.1 and so I think our federal business has been delivering quite fine. On the CR, no, I don't expect that to drive being below 1.0x. And the reason I don't is because we've already won a lot of work that $14 billion, and the majority of that is in federal that we haven't booked yet that we can still convert. We also, by the way, one other variable, we've got 59% funded backlog, which is very high.

Yes, so I would say Xator has certainly been outperforming on a revenue front. SealingTech is really recent, but we do expect they're going to deliver a very strong performance. I'll talk about that in a minute. And IPKeys is on track with our expectations. We do get the value, as you're pointing out, Louie, from the cross-selling. We haven't factored in revenue or cost synergies as we've made these acquisitions. So anything that we get is kind of above and beyond. Great example would be IPKeys. They have a book of customers, hundreds of customers in the utility and the water space. So in addition to selling those customers, their capabilities, we can also sell the broader Parsons capabilities in those market areas. Likewise, we can take their products to our current utility and water waste, water customers. And so that, we've seen synergies already even between SealingTech and IPKeys and coming up with a new product line offering called Cyberzcape, and we're going to be putting IPKeys capabilities on the fly Away Kits at SealingTech. So that's how quickly we do the integration and we drive synergies, but that's definitely a big factor helping our momentum.

Okay, so take the first one. What's driving the cyber? I would say, first, we're one of the leaders in offensive cyber, and that comprised about 75% of our business. We have in-depth relationships across the Department of Defense military services, as well as the intelligence community and customers like cyber commands. So we've been able to get a very strong position. We've done work for them for a long time. They know they can count on us, particularly in a time of need, as you mentioned, such as the conflict affiliation. I can't comment too much more on that in-depth, just due to the classification nature. In the INDOPACOM, we have several efforts underway. We've been on Guam for over three decades, supporting public works, that's through our Critical Infrastructure group. We also are on Guam supporting defensive Guam for the Missile Defense Agency through our team's contract. We're on Kwajalein Island. We built the Kwajalein airfield. We're also just recently won the Kwajalein housing, and we're looking for continued expansion there. Particularly, that budget got increased from $9.1 billion to over $14 billion in the NDAA, so that's going to be a big focus area. And then on our defense and intelligence side, we have over 100 folks located out in Hawaii that are working on cyber and intelligence type of work.

Yes, so overall in labor and hiring we're doing very well. Obviously, that's been critical to driving our organic growth. We've seen our retention improve, in fact, it improved by over a 1% year-to- year, which is very strong and we were already ahead of PwC industry benchmarks in that area. As far as classified contracts, the clearance processing moved to DCSA back in 2019 and when it did, they were able to drop the backlog and I want to say it was close to 75%. And they also sped up the clearance processing time for secret and top secret, which has really helped us. Classified areas always going to be the most difficult though to hire, but we've seen some improvement in recent years.

Yes, so it's a mix. And I'll put them into two categories. When you look at it about half that $14 billion of un-booked is option years. So those would be current programs that we're performing and we'll get follow-on options. In general, most of those would have the people performing the contract today. There might be some increased or surge scope as you go into the options, but generally those would be on board. The ones where we would get additional labor is the ones that are un-booked ceiling. So a case of example of that would be we won Air Base Air Defense Program in Europe. And so that has just shy of $1 billion ceiling. So we book that as we get task orders and those task orders represent all new work. So it's about 50:50.

That is all the time we have for questions today. I would now like to turn the call back today for closing remarks.

