Celeste Mastin
H.B. Fuller Company (FUL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Ghansham. How are you?

Yeah. So let’s start with volume. So, for 2024, we are anticipating volume growth of, call it, kind of mid-single digits. On the pricing side, we are experiencing the opposite. So, as we go into 2024, there’s a few things happening.

So when you look at it from a pricing perspective, we have got a number of index-based pricing arrangements with large customers that are rolling into 2024. We will see the impact of that on the top line. Also, we are reformulating our products for many of our customers, so that we can offer them a product at a lower cost to them and also at a lower cost to us. So you will see that on the pricing side.

On the volume side, we are projecting volume growth that’s really more consistent with what consumer buying is expected to be. In fact, we have taken a look and analyzed our shipped volume over the past several years. And when you look at 2023, our shipped volume, our shipped tonnage was down 5% or 6% versus 2019. So we are anticipating a year that we would consider more normal in 2024.

Yeah. So let’s start with your question about the reformulation dynamic. So, yeah, that is typical at this point in the cycle. And maybe if I just kind of speak to our product portfolio and our pricing, the realities of our pricing strategy, it will help explain this.

So when you look at -- and I mentioned in the script, so over half of our customers or over half of our SKU base is unique to a customer. So if you look at our SKU count, over half of those SKUs are sold to a single customer.

So we are working closely with these customers day-in and day-out, and we identify -- we understand their needs, as you point out in this part of the cycle, cost matters to our customers. And our ability to reformulate our products not only impacts their cost, but more importantly our ability to reformulate our products enables them to often use lower cost substrates. So that reformulation work is ever occurring.

And as a consequence, there’s not only innovation that we are bringing into this customer base, but as you really -- as look at it, it’s an amazing dynamic, because the amount of adhesives that is used in our end products is just so slow -- small relative to the total that whatever we can do to reduce the overall system cost for the customer matters a lot more than the cost of our adhesives.

So, in fact, if you look at our customer base, 97% of our customers spend less than $500,000 on adhesive. So on any given adhesive, they are spending about $25,000 per SKU or less. So one of the things that is woven into this business model is that we have a lot of pricing resilience as a consequence.

The second question -- sorry.

I will stop there just to make sure there is, if you had any follow-on question to the pricing piece before I talk about the margin.

Yeah. Great. So, and you really see that in our gross margins recently. Moving onto your second question about EBITDA margin, why now? I mean, why not now, Ghansham? I am very confident about where we can take this portfolio. We have really dissected this and thought about it long and hard.

And when you look at these two segments, what we have done is really create a structure that directs our investment. We have identified these high EBITDA margin, high growth spaces. You saw the bubble chart representing our top 20, 25, I mean, that chart was boiled down from 220 opportunities that were brought to us by our team.

So there’s a lot of ways and a lot of places to grow in this $70 billion adhesive industry and we feel confident that with our organization structure, really highlighting these 31 different market segments that we are able to pinpoint those opportunities where we can really grow the business. So the growth segment is full. It’s a compelling list of opportunities within that pipeline.

Then you look at the leverage segment and I feel like our teams are really winning in these leverage markets and they are really focused on driving those things that matter to our customers and that create margin uplift in our business.

And again, you saw that in our results over the last year, as well as in the last quarter and HHC was a really good example of that last quarter. That’s largely more leveraged segments are in HHC than growth segments. The most leveraged segments in the company are in HHC and you see how they managed successfully to drive -- really drive those businesses forward.

Hi, Patrick.

Yeah. So I will start with the leverage category. So you nailed it there. There’s a lot of opportunities for industry consolidation in that leverage space. Our M&A strategy in the leverage segment tends to be more opportunistic and we do underwrite those deals very heavily on cost saving synergies.

And you can see the success we have had in those Beardow Adams is a good example of a consolidation acquisition in a leverage segment that’s performing well for us, in fact, performing well ahead of the deal model by about 40%.

So then you migrate to the growth category. And I wouldn’t say so much that there is execution risk in these inorganic opportunities in the growth category. In fact, a lot of those -- a lot of the opportunities there that we are focused on are very selective.

This tends to be a place where we have the opportunity to buy smaller companies that have been very focused on a certain technology or a certain region. And typically, as we look at those technologies, they tend to fit well within our broader portfolio of technologies and fit really well with our market experience.

So the growth opportunities. M&A is a really good tool in the growth category, because so many of those products are qualified or require really a long time to build from an organic perspective. By buying into those markets, you get an automatic qualified product to run with.

And I will use Adhezion as in a good example for an acquisition that we did in a growth category. We were basic in cyanoacrylates. We really have great cyanoacrylate technology, but we needed an octyl-based cyanoacrylate technology.

So, we acquired Adhezion and the integration there has been very well run, and in fact, we have already -- in that market, we have already leveraged our SecurePortIV product that came through Adhezion into 514 countries, sorry, hospitals in the United States and on top of that we have already also signed a GPO contract with -- for our tissue bonding adhesive that came through Adhezion. That is a contract that represents 40% of the hospitals in the U.S.

So I don’t see so much execution risk there. I just really see the opportunity for us to get into these niche selective high margin spaces that we can then grow better than the companies that owned them previously.

Yeah. So let me start by saying that, if you look at our pricing performance in 2023, that less than 25% of our customers received a price decrease. So that’s -- and included in that number would be customers on indexes, as well as those that are not. So I’d say, when you look at kind of price decrease impact, about half of that comes from index customers.

And what we do see is that, for our non-index-based customers, they get price decreases, that decrease is less than what you see with the index-based customers. So that’s kind of a snapshot of 2023 to use to think about pricing in what was an incredibly challenging market. Our volume was down 8% and that’s sort of how I describe pricing resilience.

When you think about more normalized conditions, the impact of indexes, it’s just a margin preservation tool, right? So you shouldn’t -- you will see those indexes move with our raw material market, there will be a lag.

And then, as far as a normalized pricing environment, I mean, typically what is occurring throughout the year, low volume year or not, is we are constantly innovating with our customers. Sometimes we are innovating to bring them fancy new technology that enables them to introduce a new design and that product is priced to that value.

Sometimes we are reformulating to help them address cost needs or maybe just reformulating or tweaking to accommodate a change that happened because they shifted their line speeds or they wanted to use a new substrate. So there is a lot of new pricing that happens in any given year because of that innovation, as well as just ongoing status quo pricing resilience.

Thanks, Patrick.

Yeah. I mean, there the HHC team is just doing an excellent job executing. They have continued to win business throughout the over 2023 and the wins just keep piling up coming into 2024. They have done really a nice job in their growth segments, bringing innovation like in the beverage labeling space. They have introduced a beverage labeling adhesive that allows labels to come off bottles more quickly in the washing process, more quickly and at lower temperature.

So they have got some growth segments that are really bringing solid innovation to customers. And then they also have just really managed how they run their leverage segments. Good example is tape and label. I mean, we never used to sit here and talk about tape.

So tape and label, we have a new market segment leader there and he’s just very successfully choosing what parts of tape and label we really want to play in and that’s part of us succeeding in these leverage segments, picking where we truly add value and we can generate margins -- better margins and better profitability for our products, as well as continuing to leverage effectively our plant network and our raw material network. So they did a nice job demonstrating the power of leverage, and you are going to continue to see that with that HHC team.

Yeah. So let me talk a little bit about kind of how we are seeing all three of these businesses pulling out of this des -- past -- I am going to call it past destocking phenomena. So in Q4, what was really interesting to me as I looked at the development in Q4 month-over-month and providing a lot of transparency here.

The CA businesses each and every month of Q4 were positive volume. Our EA business was positive in two of those three months in progression. And our HHC business was positive in the last month of our fourth quarter.

And so, you just -- we kind of just watched that destocking rolling back. I am confident it’s complete in CA. We never really saw a big impact of it in our EA business. It’s really not the nature of most of that business. But we certainly did saw it dramatically in HHC and feel comfortable coming to a conclusion there.

Does that answer your question, Mike? Yeah.

Good morning, Jeff.

Absolutely. So, yes, as I mentioned, when you look at our outlook for 2024, we anticipated a mid-single-digit price in 2024 and that was directly related to what we anticipate will happen with our index pricing, as well as some product reformulations for sure.

So you saw that -- you see that in our guidance. Those are largely a margin preservation tool, but they do, Jeff, have a little bit of a lag effect and so they are not really lumpy, but you will -- what you are seeing is the impact of those raws coming down in the prior year starting to get reflected in price in the upcoming year.

As far as what’s happening in raw materials, we actually right now -- as you know, we monitor 4,000 different raw materials, so I am talking about raw material count here, about almost half of those materials are still in the declining phase and I -- declining -- I am talking about Q4 versus Q3 here. So we will continue to have raw material benefit carryover into 2024, because it does take a while for these raw materials to make their way through production onto our P&L.

Still a deflationary raw material environment.

Yeah. So when I look at these three segments, HHC, EA and CA. I think both EA and CA will do well in 2024. I’d call it, kind of mid-single-digit organic growth in both of them. CA being a little higher than EA.

HHC, we will probably still see them down low-single digits as we kind of work through a lot of this index pricing, and as you know, they solidly get their feet underneath them coming out of the destocking phase. Relative to M&A, I think, you will see a very similar M&A performance and focus from us and spending in 2024 as you did in 2023.

Good morning, David.

And this year Chinese New Year is about three weeks closer to the end of our quarter. And so China’s recovery has been very inconsistent. It’s bouncing around a lot. We are anticipating we might see some impact from that.

So my reference to raw material cost reduction in 2024 is largely related to carryover. So that’s one impact. When I was speaking to our 4,000 different raw materials that we track, I was speaking about Q4 versus Q3. That’s where we saw the biggest bulk of our raw materials, not quite half was still declining. Now interestingly enough, right? A third of them are still are increasing as well. So it’s really a mixed bag as it relates to raw materials, but hopefully that clarifies my comments.

Got it. Good morning, Vincent. Sure. Let me just talk a little bit about some of the wins that we have had, because I think that helps convey where my confidence is coming from and you can really get a feel for how the how portfolio is growing.

So our electronic space has really ramped up and our team is winning repeatedly there. For example, those new foldable phones, as it happens, those are really hard to bond to, because you are bonding a pretty flexible screen and really small bond line at hinge. So we have successfully secured new applications in that foldable phone space. That’s a growing category. So and that’s a really demanding application. So that’s a good example.

In automotive, the automotive business has been really interesting this year. So throughout 2023 we saw as do many others double-digit growth in automotive on a global level and actually when I look at Q4, what I found particularly notable, was that growth continued in automotive in Europe at that double-digit rate and part of that is because we have brought some new products to market there. By the way, during Q4 in the U.S. we finally saw a cooling, but I really think that that is just related to the strike and an anomaly.

But back to the wins in automotive, when you think about how the technology is developing in a car, it -- we call the development conversion, because we are seeing a lot of these big kind of glass dashboards in automotive that have been recently introduced we are winning. We just want a big actually with an OEM on that big glass dash and we won that because of conversion. We understood what it took to bond a touchscreen, touch panel because of our work in phones and electronics and were able to get there faster for our customer than anyone else.

So really good growth in that EA space, plus this addition of the ePower category, which we are pretty bullish about ePower. When we talk about ePower, we are talking about kind of sealing and bonding and thermal management applications in -- for power storage and batteries and we now have 17 customers signed up and buying our EV protect product, our unique products there, which facilitates thermal management. So those are some examples in EA.

When you look at the CA business, we expect roofing to bounce back in 2024. Also I am seeing some great wins in our infrastructure market segment. Let me tell you about this one because I think this really helps -- makes our acquisition strategy come to life as it relates to infrastructure.

We bought a company called GSSI about a year ago, that makes Beutel-based tape for metal bonding. So think about metal buildings, for example. And we also bought a company called XCHEM in the Middle East that had some experience in infrastructure.

And so we have started to localize our very popular Foster’s brand product at XCHEM now to support these big Middle East infrastructure projects, and at the same time, we have taken this Beutel-based tape from GSSI and rebranded it Fosters and introduced it as a system in the Middle East and we actually just recently won a bid Phase 1 application in Qatar in one of the big LNG projects.

So I am bullish about infrastructure. I am excited that roofing is bouncing back, that’s the CA business. And then there HHC, these guys are just -- guys and gals are delivering like crazy. And our hygiene segment, we have introduced a pad fastening adhesive, that bonds to some of these hard bond substrates so that -- that’s gone well, that’s a big category for us. Also in packaging, our team is -- I am getting a contract across my desk every week for some big CPG customer packaging contract. So we have done well there.

Part of that is our focus on sustainability, which has really evolved in the packaging space and has created a renaissance opportunity for us in HHC and then, of course, I spoke to our now most recent success with adhesion in the tissue bonding and sealing applications really excited that we are getting that product for topical skin bonding, as well as the SecurePortIV product now into hospitals around the country. So we have got -- we just -- we have got a lot of momentum, Vincent. And just every day I am seeing wins and feeling bullish about what these GBUs can do well.

Good.

Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Vincent.

Good morning, Rosemarie.

Yes. So as we look at those -- at the -- all of us been digging deep into these various market segments since I arrived and as I referenced, we have already been through a couple of these extensive market segments review -- market segment reviews.

And as we do that, what I am really focused on is, what’s the industry structure in each of these spaces and why do we deserve to win and how are we as a company executing against the needs in that space.

And so we are still very much evaluating every one of these market segments in great depth, divestment is not a decision that we would make lightly and this new portfolio management structure is just one more lens now that we are using to evaluate it.

Well, thanks very much, Rosemarie.

Thanks everyone for joining us this quarter. We look forward to hearing from you again at the end of Q1. Have a great day.
