Debra Cafaro
Ventas, Inc. (VTR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Right. Mike, I would tell you that obviously, the most important thing we think about in the renewal in 2025 is about what the earnings capacity of those assets is at that time and beyond. And the -- Kindred has communicated to us that they have significant initiatives underway on those revenue and expense to improve operating performance incentives.

Some of those, we can see are starting to take hold. We give Select as an example because it's a public company in the same business, and it shows that significant improvements are possible. And it's really too early to say, whether and to the extent Kindred's initiatives will, in fact, take hold to improve EBITDAR in 2024 and 2025. But they are surely working on it.

Yes. I mean, as you know, kind of Santerre's gotten off to a favorable start, and we are -- we've already sold some assets at favorable pricing. I think we'll continue to pick our spots and be opportunistic on that.

And then in terms of Kindred, I think we'd be able to certainly say that we'll have more visibility this year, whether or not the financial impact of this year or next year. Right now, we're thinking about next year. But that -- it's too early to say, really, what form that would take, but we have the benefit of a lease that runs into May of 2025, and that's a valuable asset.

Jim, yes, it's kind of funny to be talking about this 25 years after I started, because this is what I was doing 25 years ago. But look, we are really well prepared. We're experienced on this. We have lots of plans and subplans, I would say. It's only really 23 assets in total, so I think that, that makes it kind of manageable.

And of course, we will try to optimize the NOI of the assets. And it's a puzzle, and we have lots of tools that we've used before, and that's really what we're focused on. And I can assure you there are -- will always be kind of alternatives that we have and are ready to execute in this scenario.

Josh, sure.

Michael, remember, we own the assets and we own the EBITDAR in those assets. And that's an important -- that's very important. And again, it's too early to say. We have favorable trends in the Brookdale situation, and in Kindred, we hope to have favorable trends as you look out to 2025. So there's a lot more that goes into it when you think about what the outcome is going to be, and we'll be happy to share more with you as the facts develop.

I mean I think the key point, the topic sentence, and we'll get to the answer is, those assets overlap with our own portfolio in many respects. Our portfolio is over 90% occupied and managed by Pete and the team very effectively. This was under 80%. So there was -- there is and was significant occupancy upside as we get in there and self-manage those assets. And now I'll turn it over to the team to take your questions.

And also, as we do new investments, obviously, the percentage that, that represents of the overall SHOP portfolio and Ventas will shrink because the denominator will be growing and emphasized on U.S. senior housing. So that will change the impact as well.

'99.

Well stated. I think, Bob, Bob, do you want to talk about funding?

And I'm glad you asked it, too, because I think with Ventas really giving FFO guidance into '24, that really is in the top 10 of all REITs, that we are aiming to have an improved multiple that benefits and reward shareholders, and it represents a cost of capital that could be very effective as we build on the organic growth story and layer on attractive investments focused on senior housing.

I liked that Slide, too, but I'll give it to Justin to answer.

I mean one part I would comment on is that we are very disciplined about it and don't lead the league in any -- and this is an area we don't want to lead the league in, and we can talk about that further. It's a very defined category, and we use it as such. So, Bob...

You would say benchmark [indiscernible].

Okay. It's a typical litigation reserve and it affects us and other REITs. And in terms of the acquisition investment opportunities, I think, again, looking at the pipeline that we have, I think Justin talked about 7% plus or minus going in cap rates, which is affected by the growth rate, leading to low to mid-teens IRRs, which, depending on how we fund, will be -- that's how the accretion, obviously, in year 1 will be determined. We're not counting on a lot of accretion into year 1, but rather enhancing our growth rate over time. And we think that those IRRs are attractive, and we want to expand our presence in U.S. senior housing.

Yes. So on the latter part, as I mentioned, I think we'll be -- we'll pick our spots on disposing of certain of the Santerre assets over time. Including the SNF. We've been -- we've sold some at very attractive per bed valuations, and we're happy with that.

And on the -- what was the -- the others were embedded purchase options that we got in the acquired portfolio with universities who have a better cost of capital than God. So they chose to exercise them. So that's all that was.

All right. Mandeep, thank you very much, and I want to thank everyone for joining us today. It's a pleasure to speak with you and have a chance to answer your questions. We really appreciate your interest in Ventas, your support of Ventas, and we look forward to seeing you again soon.
