Denise Paulonis
Sally Beauty Holdings, Inc. (SBH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Absolutely. It's Denise, I will start with those. Thanks for the questions. Let me start with Q1. In Q1, we expect to see the benefit from the strategic initiatives that we're working on. As we indicated, we believe for the full year there are 200 basis points to 300 basis points of comp goodness for us. It will also be the last quarter where we see benefit to comp sales from the store closures last year. But we are expecting that more than offsetting that in Q1 we expect the trend from Q4 to continue.

One important trend is the rapid in the care category at BSG. And then in general just the macro headwinds that are out there. Importantly, we see sequential comp improvement throughout the year. As the year progresses, strategic initiative benefits are going to accelerate and the negative impact of that softness in the care category at DSG really lessens in Q2 and dissipates further as we get through the second half. So Q1 by all means the lightest quarter of the year but I think really well understood the trends that we're operating underneath that.

More broadly I think your second question was just about consumer trends and what we're seeing. Overall consumer and purchasing trends in our mind are largely consistent with Q3. Within that Sally customers just remain frugal. They buy what they need versus perhaps what they want or a more impulse type of purchase. We actually saw transactions and UPT trends largely consistent with Q3.

And then Color and Care the core categories remain the strongest performers. And based on the share data we have we believe we're holding share in both of those categories. When you asked about the impact of Sally comp the impact to sales in Sally compared to the prior quarter trend was really driven by average unit retail prices being up only 4% in Q4 compared to being up 7% in Q3.

Two factors the first one is by far the largest. We lapped price increases from that quarter last year. And so just less flow-through as we did that lapping. And then we did see a modest mix shift to products brought on promotion. We didn't promote more but we did see customers gravitate a bit more to those value offerings. And on the BSG side of the equation I call it Steady-Eddie, right? Styles behavior really was pretty consistent over the past few quarters. Comps were consistent. Color was a little bit stronger in the quarter. Care pretty consistent with what we saw in Q3.

We did see an interesting little shift in transactions being down a bit but ticket growth made up the other side of that. So in fact our comp was actually slightly stronger than the prior quarter. So we're monitoring those trends. But I think in our minds right now it's pretty consistent behavior. We believe we're holding share and in general living in a world where macro is just having consumers be a little bit more frugal.

And then I think your second question Oliver was really around modernization. And when we're thinking about our initiatives which ones can really impact traffic which ones can impact a younger customer a couple of pieces I would call out. On the Studio side, we think that is a traffic gainer. If someone comes in for a service and they want that service experience. And they might be a customer who doesn't shop as frequently it could change their transaction behavior and have them shopping with us more often.

Similarly when we think about innovation and our own brands, right? Those are things that are real traffic drivers to us. And with the type of brands we're bringing in they are definitely geared towards not just a younger consumer, but appealing to a younger consumer. So on the BSG front with things like Danger Jones, Anika very, very kind of high-profile brands. Certainly that stylist shopper out there. And then our own brands front with bondbar our continued focus on Strawberry Leopard, things that definitely gear towards a bit of that younger consumer. And then the one we hope will build over time and help traffic is really our licensed colorist on demand program. We have just launched into all 50 states. And with that we are seeing about 30% of the customers taking advantage of that consultation being new to Sally and we're starting to see them do repeat purchases as well. So when we think about that that's traffic building. And usually, if you're new to the category, you're trying to understand how do I color. This is a great way to kind of bring people in and give them the confidence to do that. So I believe that hit all of your questions.

Sure. Thanks for the question. I think when we think about trade down or trade out, it's not really what we're seeing our customers do. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, what we are seeing customers do is search more for value. So they do gravitate a bit more to when something is on promotion more likelihood to be buying it on promotion. And so with that we certainly see a little shift in behavior from what we had seen earlier in the year about a little bit more frugality. The trend that's persistent from the beginning of the year as people does not buying things that they don't need.

So we talk all year along about things like styling tools that seem less demand simply because that's a bit more of a you only buy it if you need it unless you feel like you have extra money in your wallet. So a general sense of frugality, but not much more than that in terms of new trend or new behavior. And if you could remind me, what was your second question again?

Absolutely. So overall, what we saw if I separate Sally and BSG, so promotional activity at Sally this past year was generally consistent through fiscal 2023. So what we put out there on promotion. In Q4, we saw a bit of step up in the mix of products sold on promotion, as I just mentioned in terms of how people are searching for value. We expect value to be important as we go through 2024. In BSG, promotional activity was up modestly through 2023. We expect that to remain constant in 2024 as stylists also continue to seek out deals.

When we think about that holistically, the way we're planning for the year is because our customers are remaining conservative, we're going to stay conservative on pricing. And we'll also though continue to lean in where we see that there's a UPT opportunity. We'll lean in on promotions, importantly, our vendor partners are continuing to be supportive and aligned with that strategy. So good confidence about our gross margin level staying above 50% continuing to execute the business we did, but being realistic that customers are searching for value and finding the right ways to do that.

Underpinning it all is the focus on our strategic initiatives. Our strategic initiatives will actually help us drive units. And at the end of the day, while we might not see as much coming through from pricing as we've seen in the last few years, that comp growth from the strategic initiatives is all about customers leaning in and buying more units.

The key driver there is the ramp of our Fuel for Growth initiatives. So we're lapping the last quarter of our store closures from last year. So our sales number is a bit more pressured which as you'd expect pressures a bit SG&A leverage. But what really happens through the year is the Fuel for Growth initiatives, the $20 million that will be incremental is more realized later in the year than it is in Q1 which is really what's driving the operating margin being a bit softer in Q1, fully in line with our expectations as we're getting through that last quarter of the store closure impact. You also have a bit of a ramp, but a sequential improvement modest, but through the year with the top line as well. Beyond just the store closures you've got the ramp of the strategic initiatives as well.

As you guys know, we've been out there and participating on Amazon.com with our marketplace for a number of years now. The initiative we have in place right now is recently fully launching our own brands on to the Walmart marketplace. So it's a digital play. It's really for us to get access to a new customer base that might not shop regularly at Sally today, but that we can introduce them to our own brands. And opportunity to sell through Walmart to accomplish that, but also opportunity for them to learn about the brand and learn a bit more about Sally. So we're excited about that and then furthering that growth within the digital space in Sally. We'll look as the first half of the year moves on to also start to participate in some other marketplaces including Instacart and DoorDash.

Not at all, not at all. This is a build on to that. So just understanding that marketplace has been a great vehicle no matter who the partner happens to be, to be introducing some of our own brands and expanded the reach of those owned brands. Is the focus on walmart.com today. It will -- it's also the focus on amazon.com today and that will continue.

Well, I just want to thank everyone for joining the call today and thank all of our associates around the world. We delivered fiscal 2023 results in line with the expectations we laid out at the beginning of the year. We also advanced our strategic priorities in the year with the launch of new concepts and services, product innovation and distinctive omnichannel experiences for our Sally customers and BSG stylists. We're looking forward to successful 2024. And appreciate your interest in the company. Thank you.
