Fran Horowitz
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Dana. Good morning. Yes, what an amazing and exciting year here at Abercrombie. To start with your first question about Hollister, very proud of the team. As you know, coming out of 2022, they really dug in to figure out what pieces were owned by us and what was happening in the greater macro world. And they were able to really uncover some product opportunities. So returning to growth for 2023, led, as you mentioned, by the women's business, and that's across all categories.

We are seeing progress and some green shoots in guys. We see a very strong bottoms business. They've been able to diversify out of denim, and there's lots of categories on the bottoms that are selling. And our expectation is to continue to see this progress throughout the year.

Regarding Gilly, again, we are excited about the growth of Gilly. Gilly had a nice year. It's been a journey of learning for us that we've discussed many times. And the exciting thing is that, it's contributing to the growth of Hollister. So we have been able to pivot that brand per customer's feedback to really being an active lifestyle-focused brand, and that's what they're continuing to respond to. So as we mentioned, we do carry it in all the stores around the world. The side-by-sides will remain. We'll actually have some freestanding stores as well to continue to test and learn, but we're excited to see what it's contributing.

All right. Corey, good morning. And first of all, thank you. Yes, it was an absolutely amazing year for the company as well as for the A&F brands. I mean, to see growth across brands, regions, and channels, it's just been incredible. And A&F, to your point, we have seen a 50% increase in the family of brands of A&F since 2019, and a 10% CAGR with double digits for three years with that happening.

The reason behind that is that, our playbook is working. We have been able to really expand the addressable market for Abercrombie adults particularly. So it is no longer a jeans and t-shirt company. It is truly a lifestyle brand. So the addressable market has gone from the early 20s to easily through the late 30s, and we've broadened all the offerings from a category perspective. So today, where we talk about things like YPB, our active brand, Best Dressed Guest. This week we're launching our wedding shop, which is another exciting bit of information that we learned from staying close to the customer and how important this wedding journey is and how many occasions we can dress them for.

So our expectation is to continue to see these ideas coming from the team and helping us understand what the consumer is looking for and continuing to grow all of those categories. So 2024, as we said, we are focused on sustainable, profitable growth and frankly there is just -- there is no finish line.

Thanks, Corey.

Thanks Matt.

Hey Matt, good morning. So yes, so super excited with the results we put up, obviously, for the fourth quarter as well as for the full year. And we did see some nice acceleration in January. It really does kind of prove that you can do business in January. I'm very proud of the team, because that was really a result of transitioning their assortments into early spring and getting some newness on the floor.

Our consumer continues to respond to newness, and having new and first is something that's a very big part of our vocabulary, and the fact that we're holding our inventory so lean and we're chasing, it drives the ability to be able to do that. You used our word, so yes, we are actually exporting our playbook globally. It was exciting to see both of our international regions start to return to growth this year. That was our expectation and we're very happy to have seen that come through. We've spent years building those teams in Shanghai, as well as London. And the fact that our playbook is working here, we're very confident that it'll work there as well. I've been actually in both regions very recently working and visiting with the teams and it's exciting to see all the talent that we've been able to recruit into those offices.

Thanks.

And regarding -- the other question regarding attracting customers. So yes, we're attracting new customers. We actually added millions of customers to our file this year, which has been incredibly exciting. Those are both customers coming back to the brand as well as new customers that are just discovering us. It's being done through digital as well as stores. And the fact that we have really expanded the addressable market and age as well as in categories is really helping us bring in some new shoppers. A great example would be, they come to check out YPB, and then they realize and see many other things on the site that they're excited about, and we see the attachments to the other products as well.

Thank you.

Hey, Alex, we'll actually answer those questions in reverse. We'll start with Abercrombie. The digital consumer really is a result of the age cohort that we've gone after. So, the A&F millennial consumer is really an online shopper, and they love the convenience of coming to a store, whether that's to pick up their, what we call a pop-in, purchase online, pick up in store, or to make an exchange or a return. The digital penetration has certainly grown significantly over the past several years, as we have changed that brand so significantly. The Hollister team starts their journey on their phone as well, but it's very social for them to, you know, spend time in the mall with their friends and complete their purchase there.

Thanks.

Yes. Hey, Mauricio. Actually, we're going to take your sec, we're going to go in reverse as well. So regarding inventory, yes, I'm very pleased to start the year with a down 7% inventory and, obviously, a little bit differentiated by brand. But we've spent a lot of years getting our inventory into a much healthier place. And our expectation is that, it will probably be closer to our sales opportunity as we head into 2024, but we are going to stay lean, we are going to continue to chase, we work with the teams every single week on what's working and what's not working and that mantra is not changing in 2024.

Yes, so the learnings from A&F, we have a corporate playbook that we reference very often, which is aligning our product, our voice, and experience, and really staying close to our customer. Those are the same principles that we use for each of the brands. And particularly for Hollister this year, I mean keeping that lean inventory and making sure that we stay in chase mode has been a huge win for us and intending to do the same as we continue into 2024.

And then lastly, marketing. We treat our marketing very similarly to how we treat our chase and our open to buy, and we keep it open so that we can continue to test and learn and see what's working. We were able to add some marketing to Hollister in the back half, and we had the product all lined up and the customer was responding.

Let's start with the product. So if we talk about bottoms, bottoms has actually been a success across both brands and all genders. I think the biggest learning coming out of 2022 was certainly about diversifying on our bottoms business, so that we're not so heavily reliant on just the denim. Now with that said, denim is working. There's some exciting new things happening in denim. It's certainly cleaning up, believe it or not. The rise now is starting to go back down. The wide leg and the baggy is working both in men's and women's and girls' and boys'. But the real key here is keeping a balance in the bottom of the store and making sure that we continue to mine for new things out there like utility and cargo and non-denim bottoms which are working for us.

Thank you.

Well done, Dylan. Yes. That does sum up our Always Forward Plan and our targets. Thinking about $5 billion is the right way to think about it. Very excited to achieve what we have, top line and bottom line. But the key that we set in June of 2022 when we came out with our Always Forward Plan was about sustainable, profitable, consistent growth. And that's really what our goal is for 2024, is certainly to do it again. I always say that there is no finish line, and we are really just at the beginning of this conversation, particularly from a global perspective. I mean, there's just so many opportunities out there, and having seen both those regions, go positive this year, as I mentioned just a minute ago about the teams that we're building in those regions. So super excited about exporting our playbook.

Yes, I just want to say thank you everyone for joining the call today and we look forward to continuing to provide updates in the near term. Thank you.
