Gina Boswell
Bath & Body Works, Inc. (BBWI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Lorraine. Great to hear from you, I'll ask Julie if she can chime in with that question first.

Thank you for the question. Next question?

Thank you for the question, Kate. I would say that we have - clearly, we have the newness and the seasonal storytelling that Julie might speak to and she's already done so in the prepared remarks, but we also have the new adjacencies and those start to build over time. As you know, men's is one and still a fairly low awareness. And so we've built out that assortment further, and that's why you saw sort of two-thirds of the growth coming from those new products and will continue in 2024.

Our hair is also will be building even further and both in distribution as well as SKUs. So there's that newness as well. And then our lip assortment, which is further expanded in the fixture itself, which is beautiful and serves the role of attracting new customers, but there's more expansion within Lip, SPS and some other things. I'm leaving Julie very little to say. But laundry as well is the next one. But Julie, you're close to it.

Next question please.

Thank you. Eva, would you start with that question?

Yes. Thank you. And one extra thing I would add is that even with some of these new adjacencies so forth and Julie spoke to, the margin profile of those over time improves as the product scale was launched also contributing in bigger ways to the merch margin.

Thank you, Eva. Next question.

Thank you.

Thanks, Simeon. Great to hear from you. I would say on men's, we don't report the exact, but it is a single-digit percent of our sales, so still relatively small with lots of headroom with respect to the large addressable market of $12 billion. And as I said Julie commented as well, ample distribution as well as new SKUs. As it relates to the B&O leverage and reformulation, I will ask Eva to please comment on that.

Thank you. Thanks Simeon. Next question please.

Thank you, Alex. On the first quarter, Eva, if you can speak to this?

Next question please.

Great. Thank you. Thank you, Matt. This is a three-part question. So I'll start and then candle category, Julie if you can speak to that and then Eva finish it off with the second half.

I would say, overall, what - when we put our full year outlook together, we built it building block - by building block. And as was stated, there's a variety of scenarios that were considered from the low to the high-end of our guidance, including things that are in our control with the execution of our initiatives, but also macro and consumer sentiment.

But I think if you zoom out entirely, there really are four things that drive to our return to growth in the back half. First is, one that you touched on that we'll talk to the normalization of candles and sanitizers moderating, so effectively seeing an easing of the market decline.

The second is the growth from our core categories, and that's where some of the newness that Julie spoke to and seasonal storytelling comes through.

The third is the continued rollout of our new adjacencies, and they're small. As I mentioned, even in the men's point as a percent of our shop today, but men, hair, lip and laundry, those build and ramp through the year based on the distribution that we're talking about, whether going from 200 stores in laundry to half the chain in fall that et cetera.

And then fourth, we talked about our full funnel marketing investments. We've got enhanced loyalty capabilities. We've got the personalized digital experiences. Those are driving more loyal and engaged customers. And so that's sort of the overall piece to the top line growth as it plays out throughout the year. So second question that you had was on candle?

Thank you. Thank you, Matt. Can you take next question please?

Thank you, Olivia. Well, to start, our assumptions on AUR for the first quarter were flat and moderate for the full year. In terms of new price actions that we've taken, Julie might want to speak to. I mean, it's a very agile model where we sort of look at those everyday deals and bundles and so forth. I think the last part of your question, I would ask Eva to chime in on. And I'm trying to remember exactly, do you have that?

Next question please.

Sorry, February traffic.

With the guidance of flat AUR in the first quarter.

I think we have time for one more question please.

Thank you. As it relates to the categories, overall, we sort of look at the masstige sort of asset as the pricing sort of segment that we operate in and many of those categories, I mean, if you just think about the beautiful laundry package that we have and what that connotes and even the price value proposition there being sort of in that sweet spot of masstige. But you're right, there are other things like the beveling of some of the products. And then the reformulations as well, which is an important elevation from the customer's mindset.

In terms of - so I would say overall, the categories and Julie will chime in, I'm sure, but overall, they all have opportunities to elevate not necessarily raise entirely, right, because we want to make sure we always meet the mindset of our customers and increase their usage. We are a highly replenishable business. So we want to make sure of that and get the trial that we need.

But I would say that in terms of what we're seeing by cohort, which I think was the other part of your question, we are actually not seeing any discernible changes with respect to income or age based on all the things that we've seen. And we're not seeing trade down in our assortment as well.

Thank you. I'll pass that on to the team. So that concludes our call. I want to thank you for joining today's call. Over to you, Mike.

Thank you.