Jennifer Johnson
Franklin Resources, Inc. (BEN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Right? Adam? Adam is going to take this one.

Well and I would just add, Mike, as you know, we've done a lot of acquisitions. And I think one of the reasons they work well is, we take our time on some of the integration. And so there's opportunity, obviously, we'll be integrating Putnam into the -- into our environment. And even some of the Legg Mason SIMs are -- have an opportunity to integrate which we think will simplify the environment.

Yes. So I mean, you've got to remember, SMAs exist and the reason we're taking off so much is that in the retail channel, where the world went fee-based, it is difficult for a financial adviser whose client fees, they're being charged every month for advice to buy and hold a mutual fund, right? So if you can deliver the same kind of product in an SMA with the holdings basically on the statement, it looks like the advisers being much more active on that. And so we view ourselves as being vehicle agnostic to how we deliver what is our expertise which is our investment capability. And -- so you take, for example, the Franklin Income Fund. The Franklin Income Fund now is -- we have an ETF version, an SMA version and we're seeing growth in both of those. So any of our products can be delivered in SMA. Today, we have munis. Munis are actually -- have a good growth area in the SMA muni ladders.

And so the way we are thinking about our business is, I always say it's like a 3-legged stool. It's product capability, geo-global distribution and vehicles. And the vehicles can be mutual funds, communal trusts, ETFs, SMAs, things like Canvas direct indexing. And we should be flexible about how we deliver those, in whatever market we -- whatever market we're operating in. And I think that nobody has won the breadth of product capability that we have to the breadth of geographic distribution, both on the retail and institutional side. And while we may have been late to things like passive ETFs, we were early actually in the active ETF space. And so being vehicle-agnostic is very important.

Now the challenge is on the SMAs, is that you have to get approval at the gatekeeper level and then you have to go out and train individual advisers. So it's a bit like alts in the complexity. But once you do that, then you just get consistent flows coming in. So the long answer is basically, we see any of our flagship funds as being able to be delivered through the SMAs platform.

So interest -- so first of all, core is in positive flows and has remained in positive flows. It's core plus that's been more challenged. We just came from -- we had our international institutional client conference last week. And the walk of the discussion is around, is it time to move cash and go longer duration. So we're also waiting for that moment but we're certainly getting close to it. I think everybody agrees, maybe there's one more increase of the Fed, maybe not but we're definitely near the end. And then the question goes, is it higher for longer? Or do things degrade quickly and rates get dropped. So I think we're fortunate in that we have 4 independent fixed income teams that all actually have slightly different views. And clients align with one of those views. And that's the way we look at managing the business and kind of the insurance policy around it which is to have comfort that we know that we can align something. And the key has been training our sales force to understand those nuances. So that they can be out there and deliver the appropriate product consistent with that client's view.

And so yes, there are -- I mean I think Western is probably our top-flowing SIM as far as gross sales, because there are a lot of clients that align with Western view. So -- and we think we're well positioned when they're -- sure, there's going to be X percentage that do passive but there's plenty of them that believe in active fixed income. I'm always one of those that's skeptical when you -- the concept of doing capital allocation based on who's got more debt in the fixed income. So passive fixed income is always a question in my mind but there are clients who prefer that but there are plenty of clients who prefer active fixed income. And with our diverse SIMs, I think we're well positioned to capture that as money moves out of cash into longer duration.

Adam, do you want to add anything or?

You know, this -- Glenn, this has been discussed for quite a while and back and forth. And we've all and through the ICI, have had opinions on it. And our view is, it's about education, it's about suitability of products and making sure that advisers are deploying the appropriate product for that client. And we've always had the view that it's our job to make sure that we well inform our distribution partners and provide transparency around that. And so I think our view is that this is not going to have a tremendous impact.

Well, I think I'll start and then, Adam, you could jump in. I mean, to be honest, like, one of the things that -- we are really excited about this Putnam deal is that, if you're a traditional asset manager, who has a big book of mutual funds, the area from a -- where mutual funds tax disadvantage isn't an issue is in the retirement channel. And so -- and that's a way in which we have always underpunched our weight. And so as we got into this, we couldn't be more excited about combining what we've been putting an emphasis internally, on retirement, with their distribution capability, we worry a lot because as you can imagine, Empower was built out of Putnam. And so really understanding that retirement channel, bringing these teams together and we think that's just going to make us a much, much better distribution partner, not just with Empower but with firms like -- platforms like Principal, Nationwide, Fidelity and being able to have an entry with our stable value in the target date funds.

So we look at this and couldn't be more excited about what we think is a great growth opportunity for us in a channel that just even when markets are volatile, people still continue to contribute to their 401(k) through their paycheck. Adam, do you want to add anything to that?

And I'll just add on the insurance side, I actually think we gained insurance expertise at the acquisition of Western who has tremendous penetration in the insurance channel. But what's exciting is, now with the alternatives capabilities that we're adding, we can take that expertise and just be a much more relevant partner. And so, as Great-West looked at our capabilities and basically committed $25 billion, it was because it was a detailed bottoms-up analysis of our various SIMs to determine what made sense for them. And that -- we wouldn't have been able to respond to that as well. Had we not had the expertise at Western and we're building it within Franklin and then, of course, the Venerable announcement that we -- the press release we had, I think, last week or the week before, again, comes out of that combined Franklin and Western insurance ideas. So we think there's more to come there as well.

So Lexington's final close will be in December. So they're scheduled on that. Clarion has had improving redemption queues but they're still -- I don't know, Adam, if you want to -- if you have the details on it. But we've had all 3 strategies were positive for the quarter.

Look, I think the market has kind of spoken on this topic which is they want transparent active ETFs. And so that's been our area of focus. And so we haven't really pursued anything there and I don't think there's a lot of growth there.

Yes, it may be our audio that's having an issue. Brian, did you hear the response?

Matt, why don't you try again?

I think this is -- well, first of all, we know in talking to our large distribution partners, if there's just a massive amount. One of them commented that their most profitable area right now is their, basically the money market fund because of the massive amount of money sitting in cash on the sidelines. So the wealth channel is no different than the institutional channel in that. The institutional channel is likely to move first and then the wealth channel. The challenge, I think, between traditional fixed income and private credit is that banks just aren't lending like they used to. And so you're not even generating as much of the traditional fixed income as you used to.

And so in order to have the investable universe, you're going to probably see the wealth channel starting to move more into private credit anyway. But the reality is, it is illiquid. And I think this is where we are on the product development side, thinking through creative solutions where you actually have products that combine private credit and traditional fixed income. So you have a component of liquidity with the excess returns that are generated in the private markets because of their illiquidity premium.

So it's just as any alternative is in the wealth channel, it's complicated because you have the suitability and the DOL rule that was asked is, it's going to mean that the bar is even higher. You can't make mistakes. But from a responsible asset manager trying to figure out how to provide these excess returns in that channel, it's an area of great focus for us. So again, the banks are going to lend the way they used to lend the capital requirements have made it tougher and tougher. You see it in the numbers. And we think that private credit is going to continue to grow.

Well, I just want to thank everybody for participating in today's call. And once again, we'd like to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication. It's also -- I'd also like to add that we look forward to welcoming the impressive team at Putnam to Franklin Templeton when the transaction closes. And we look forward to speaking with you all again next quarter. Thank you.