Joey Wat
Yum China Holdings, Inc. (YUMC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

For the Chinese New Year?

For the Chinese New Year trading, Andy has mentioned in his presentation earlier, it's a very, very tough lap because last Chinese New Year, we had a phenomenal trading during the 2023 Chinese New Year. But we have prepared a very full and exciting calendar for the Chinese New Year, not only the excitement of the marketing campaign, but products. And this is the first time we launched 5 new burgers, 5 weeks before going into the Chinese New Year. The excitement is there. The trading so far has been solid. But it's still a bit early because we really need to anticipate until the first day of the Chinese New Year. And then right now, the weather to a certain extent, the extreme weather is a bit of a wildcard. So that's where we are. And the focus going into the Chinese New Year after the first day of Chinese New Year is about our golden bucket. That was our total focus of all our operations team. But it's a very, very tough quarter. So we'll be happy if we actually can stay flat with the same-store sales. That's where we are right now.

You handle the G&A. I'll handle the other one.

Xiaopo, I think I'm going to address your question by taking a step back by looking at the trends, the industry trend, the competitive trend, the consumer trend and then our own observation of our trading trend, and that hopefully will give you a holistic sense of our long-term view. First, industry. It's widely reported everywhere the China economy is growing at mid-single digits, but it's rarely reported that in 2023, our industry actually grew at double digits, actually 20%. So the recovery of the restaurant industry was very vibrant for 2023, and we are doing slightly better than the industry average.

However, for 2023, it was not easy to disaggregate many factors, including the growth or the recovery. One reason is sometimes the headlines could be misunderstood. I'll give you an example. For quarter 3, Yum China performance, the headline was reported that we grew revenue by 9%, missed the expectation by 5.7%. In reality, that is due to the foreign exchange difference. In our operating currency, which is in renminbi in China, our sales growth was 15%. But the reporting currency is the U.S. dollars, so it's reported at 9%. So if we disaggregate the foreign exchange from the operating currency, we see the difference. But fundamentally, our industry is growing very nicely. And then, of course, quarter 2, actually recovery in terms of the system sales was as much as 32%. So net-net, the industry recovered by 20% for 2023.

And that explains why other than Yum China so many competitors have been so aggressive to open new stores because opportunities are there. Is it competitive? Yes, absolutely. But fortunately, let's not forget, it has always been competitive in the last 36 years as well, and we have always been able to stay as a market leader in the last 30-some years as well. That's point 1.

Point 2, consumption trend. What I'm going to share is not the mainstream thinking. So we can agree to disagree. The mainstream thinking is China is going through consumption downgrade with many challenges. To a certain extent, it's true, but to a certain extent, customers are just getting more rational. However, what has not been mentioned at all is even with 5% GDP growth or mid-single-digit GDP growth, consumption upgrade is still also happening. Urbanization in China is still happening and we don't even need to look at the restaurant industry. We can look at China's top 6,000 shopping malls, which we track because we opened a lot of stores in those shopping malls. Within the segment of top 6,000 shopping malls, 2023 alone, there were 400 new shopping malls opened, not a small number, and 2/3 of them opened during the second half of the year, quarter 3 and quarter 4. And we are happy to report to our shareholders that these shopping mall location stores are better -- are trading better than the rest, well, apart from the tourist and transportation locations.

So when a shopping mall opens near the high street or close to high street, you can imagine the traffic moves to shopping mall and that itself is consumption upgrade. So come back to the rationalization of the customer, how do we respond to it? We are the market leader. We -- our focus in the last 30-some years and our ongoing focus is how to build a brand with a combination of good value, amazing products and opening up the price point. It’s the combination of all of these, good food is always #1, and you can see why we continue to roll out so many good food. But at the same time, we are very cautious about the price point. That's the reason why original recipe chicken, after 36 years, the price is less than 5x of the price we launched 36 years ago. Only if the China housing price increased by the same ratio of original recipe than I think many Chinese people are even happier. So we do arrange of the product launch. We launched Wagyu Beef Burger that is priced as much as RMB 50, but at the same time, we also introduced the entry price value combo at RMB 20. This is the range we're going for and it's working.

Point 3, come to the trading pattern, what have we seen during quarter 4, and that will give us some idea about 2024 going forward. We celebrated 10,000 stores of KFC during December 15 this year. It was very meaningful for us. And it also, I hope, gives some confidence to our investors that Western QSR is solid and has nice growth. Quarter 4 started with a bit of softness. We don't have to reiterate again. But the trading improved in November and then improved a bit more in December. Good to know the trend is all right. And then the rebound of dine-in is very strong. However, delivery remains popular. It's still 36% of our business. Customers like the convenience. By trade zone, all improved.

As I mentioned earlier, tourist location and transportation hubs are recovering very well. Other than that, shopping malls are doing better than the others.

By region, recovery happened across all regions for quarter 4 and full year. Northern part of China recovery -- recovered the best because last year COVID lapping -- they were very difficult last year. And across the year, eastern part of China, which is the most important part of our business, it's still the most resilient region.

In city tier, Tier 2 inland, central part of China are recovering the best -- doing the best. They are the regional hub, vibrant economy, the living expenses are lower. One good example is Changsha. It's the destination for foodie in China. A lot of amazing food concept there. People go to Changsha just to enjoy different foods but little do people know, Changsha's rent is only about 10% to 15% of Shanghai, and yet ticket average is not too different. And these are the examples of the cities that are doing the best and going forward.

And Pizza Huts are doing very well in lower-tier cities, and that proves that the Pizza Hut business model works for lower-tier city.

Last, last but not least, our weekend trading right now is better than weekday. This is phenomenal for our team because if you remember in the previous earnings call, our weekend traffic was more challenged after the pandemic. People's behavior changed. The traffic during weekend dropped. What did we do? We launched the whole chicken and that product -- the whole chicken product targets very, very -- has a very clear focus to drive the delivery business during the weekend. Customers can buy the whole chicken, put it on the table, have a veggie and some rice, and this is a very nice meal and it worked. So now our weekend sales actually are better than weekday, huge milestone for our team's ability to build new product and new skills to grow with the change of customers. It's -- thank you for indulging me. It's a long answer, but I hope that gives you some sort of long-term view of the way that we trade our business. Thank you, Xiaopo.

Thank you. Let me reiterate, we have been able to protect ticket size and even grow a little bit over the years. So 2019 pre-pandemic, the ticket average RMB 37, 2020 is RMB 40 and then RMB 39, RMB 42 and then RMB 41 for 2023. So this is the long-term trend. If we even go back even another 5 years, it's not too far away. So this is always our trading strategy to keep the ticket average relatively stable. To go to specifics, the introduction of the entry price product always comes with the new product -- it's a new product and also comes with the introduction of the high-priced product. I mentioned that the beef burger, the beef burger grew by 18% last year, by the way, the category. So RMB 50 for beef burger -- RMB50 for Wagyu beef burger and RMB 20 combo is a good balance. What also helps is when we do promotions like even for Chinese New Year, we always try to help customers to trade up to a higher ticket average by having a very attractive discount. So it's a combination of the marketing campaign that we have been doing to protect ticket average. But specifically for the entry price product, it has 3 purposes, and we are happy to see all 3 purposes there.

One is it does attract incremental customer as we become more and more mass market, particularly for Pizza Hut. By the way, Pizza Hut ticket average moved from RMB 120 to right now RMB 90 over the last 5 years as part of the turnaround strategy, obviously it works, because if we want to open more stores, become more mass market, we need to have product and price point to cater for the incremental customer. And it works. And to what percentage, it's about 5% right now, it's not a huge proportion that will offset the balance of our margin. That's point one.

Point two is, interestingly, when we have the entry price product, does it mean most of the customer will go there? Not necessarily. If you think about customer psyche, many customers will still go for the product above and entry price products to feel good. It feels good to choose something in the middle, not the cheapest one, right? You are the customer yourself, ask yourself, how would you choose?

Third, it really actually improved the price perception by having something very low cost there. I'll give you one example I did 10 years ago with the KFC business. I lowered the small Pepsi coke price in our menu, lowered it because it looks good. It looks very affordable but how many people actually went for it, not that many. But the perception is important. It's almost as important as the reality to a certain extent. So I hope that will give you a sense about how do we treat the entry price product. But certainly, it helps when we go down to Tier 5, Tier 6 cities to introduce our product to certain customers. By the way, it's a fantastic way to recruit young customers such as students as well, particular with amazing products like the Golden SPA chicken burger, it's breast meat. Breast meat in the U.S., you can sell at higher price than dark meat. But in China, it costs us less. So the margin, of course, we protect the margin. The margin is just fine.

Let me give an overview and take a step back again. We have been very consistent with the Pizza Hut strategy since 2017 when we embarked on the Pizza turnaround. It’s sales first, profit later and then resiliency comes after that. Sales is -- obviously, you remember we work on a product, we work on a marketing campaign, we work on the business model, we work on unit economics of each of the store. Now once we turn around the same-store sales within 18 months after we make that promise, then we really turn the focus to profit because sometimes they do the trade-off, particularly at the very beginning of the turnaround of building a brand. The trade-off is always sales first, profit later. So later on, we work on the cost side, all the details Andy just went through with you, a minute earlier, and we'll continue to do that. And we want a bit more profit, bit by bit on every line. What is after, it's resilience. It's more profit. We are going to open more stores, obviously, across all city tiers to improve -- to utilize the scale of our business to get better rent, to get better cost of sales, et cetera, et cetera.

And then next is resiliency. We want to build a very resilient business, even more resilient than now and as resilient as KFC. Well, it's a very challenging goal, but unfortunately, when you have 2 brothers and of course, 2 brothers compete with each other, it's just normal. So for example, one challenge we give to ourselves, which we got it already, 2023 is we want each quarter to be profitable because Pizza Hut is quite a seasonal business, even more seasonal than KFC.

So you can see that in quarter 4 2023, we remained profitable and it's very important because I just don't like businesses that make -- that make a loss, even though there are big and small quarters. And then, we'll continue to improve the seasonality, and we even continue to improve the resource allocation during the peak hour and the slow hours of the day. And that's how we improve the resilience of the business, not only for the shareholders, but for our employees as well.

Let me just add a little bit here about the quarter 4 ticket average and then Andy can wrap up this question. Kevin, the ticket average for quarter 4 is not very unusual. As Andy just pointed out, 2022 is the unusual year because it was still in lockdown, it's 42RMB. That's very high. If we go back to 2021, quarter 4, it's 38 RMB. The 2023 quarter 4 is 39 RMB, but 2021 quarter 4 is 38 RMB. 2020, quarter 4 is 38 RMB. 2019, which is one of our best years, the ticket average for quarter 4 is 37 RMB. So it's not that different.

I mean the overall feeling is -- the market is getting more promotional, et cetera, et cetera. But as I went through in great detail that we are the market leader, and when we deal with challenges, which are not new to us, by the way. We always have a combination of good promotion, good product, good mechanism to protect the TA, et cetera, et cetera. Therefore, we are able to maintain the TA even during the quarter 4 across multiple years.

Thank you, Luo Chen. Let me actually answer one question that the Kevin, and other -- and Brian asked earlier, and then I'll come to your question. It's about the same-store sales growth. Let me just point out that over 40% (correction) of our store in our portfolio right now -- portfolio right now are built after 2019. So there's a reason why we really -- we'll continue to drive the same-store sales, but the system sales growth is incredibly important for our business.

And then, we come to the cost side, mainly the labor cost and O&O, the labor cost -- let's talk about O&O first. We have been operating with the guiding principle that we always are sincere about getting the best food to our customers, pass all the savings -- pass a lot of savings to our customers. So if you look at our cost of sales over the last few years, it has been very stable, very, very stable through better time or a more challenging time.

So if I start with 2019, pre-pandemic again or even -- well, 2019 pre-pandemic throughout the time, 2019, 31.3%, 2020, 31.7%, 2021, 31.4%, 2022, 31.1%, 2023, 31%. It's really like less than 1% swing around 31% is always there because whenever we have savings, we pass the savings to the customer through food. So you can be assured that we'll continue to stay around 31% about the cost of sales because if my team goes significantly below that number, they will have a very hard time from myself, and they all know that.

Second is cost of labor. Cost of labor, even in a year like this year, yes, it has increased because there are a lot of sort of the insurance and et cetera, et cetera, all these costs are going up. And labor cost is always sort of going up. I spent 10 years in the U.K. even when the GDP was going south during the 5-years out of 10 years, I was there, labor cost was still going up. So we have to every year find ways to help our staff to become more productive, which we have been doing that, and going forward, you can see we even go as far as one store manager managing multiple stores. It has gone up a few points, 2019 is 22.8% and then go up to 23%, 25%, 26%, now is staying at 26% last 2 years.

And the way that we run this business, we generate savings from O&O, from rent, from depreciation, from everything that we could save, and then pass the savings to our staff, we pay them a fair pay, and we hopefully pay them well. We give them really good health insurance, et cetera, et cetera, because we want to have the best staff to provide the best service for our customers. So that will be the direction we'll continue to drive.

In terms of OP, as a result of foreign exchange, et cetera, I'm sorry, cannot forecast that. It's beyond our company's capability. So we'll do everything we could to generate sales and to manage costs and then produce the result, as a result of our good effort. Thank you, Luo Chen.

Thank you.