Joyce Mullen
Insight Enterprises, Inc. (NSIT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Joe. Good morning. So when we think about our 2024 sort of trajectory, just as Glynis was saying, I mean, it’s really – we’re seeing some improvement sequentially, but we expect this first half to be a little bit lighter and we expect more strength in the second half. And that’s playing out certainly with what we’re seeing in the first couple of months.

In terms of budget priorities, I should also note that we are seeing a bit more optimism in the commercial segment, which is kind of typical for an economic recovery, because we generally see smaller customers recover sooner, and it takes a little while for that to bleed into the enterprise space. And so I would say, we’re also seeing that. In terms of budget priorities, no real changes from where we’ve been over the last couple of quarters. I mean, lots of interest, of course, and prioritization around security.

We have seen, as Glynis noted, some softening in the infrastructure space, and that’s really digestion of all of the deliveries that we shipped over the past year, frankly. And we are seeing a bit more interest in device refresh as Windows 11 sort of looms. But also AIPCs are pretty interesting to our clients. And this notion of edge management of smaller and large – small languagemodels, large language models. So I think no real dramatic changes except for infrastructure softening as we digest the deliveries that we talked about.

The AI is also – just by the way, are probably more back end loaded for sure. And then the other thing we should probably note is, now everybody’s notebook fleets are getting pretty old. So I think that’s also driving some of the interest in device refresh. We expect that more to be stronger in the back half of the year.

Okay, so, Alex – Sorry, not Alex, Joe. What I would say is, when you look at the guidance embedded in there is our organic business is maintaining the standard Insight trajectory at low single digit, mid to low single digit increase in SG&A. What you’re seeing is the impact primarily of SADA, which does have higher SG&A growth relative to GP growth, and the eleven months that we have of that in 2027 that’s driving that impact, the ongoing…

2024 that’s driving that impact. I apologize. That’s driving that impact. So we anticipate that we didn’t do the SADA acquisition for cost synergies. We did it for the strategic impact and the revenue synergies that we thought we could get with being a robust multi cloud provider. We’ll take a look at SG&A over the next year or so, but for the main 2024 year, we anticipate that we will be much more focused on revenue synergies and will be on OpEx synergies associated with SADA, and we’ll address it over time.

Yes, despite the lower organic growth rate, if you look at North America, North America SG&A is down year-over-year. We made some reductions in North America in 2023 specifically to free up dollars to make investments in the technical areas and sales areas going forward in 2024. And we’re still continuing with those.

Hi, Matt. Infrastructure, I mean, so we started – just to remind you, we started shipping backlog basically in Q1 of last year and shipped backlog all the way through about Q3. Backlog had largely normalized, I think when we talked to you at the end of Q3, and we saw infrastructure decline in Q4. So we expect that that will be soft for a few quarters, and that’s really just everyone digesting the equipment that they’ve acquired during the last year. It’s kind of the same sort of shape of demand that we saw with devices. It just happens now that we’re starting to see sequential improvement in devices, and we expect that to strengthen through the back half of the year.

Overall we expect hardware to grow – sorry, go ahead.

Yes. Mid-single-digits all in.

So gross margin on devices is lower than the hardware gross margin on infrastructure. There is significant attachment of services, and devices are generally a bigger part of a business than infrastructure. So we expect that device recovery should help services overall, strong margin. And by the way, we’ve put in, as we’ve mentioned a few times, profitability and pricing programs on hardware that we expect to continue.

And we’re doing that in Q1.

Yes. Thanks, Jake. Yes, we would agree with that. It’s exactly what we saw. We didn’t expect as much budget flush as we had seen in previous years, but we definitely saw softness in December, particularly on infrastructure.

So when we think about the device, so, first of all, we think devices are going to improve sequentially, but as Glynis just said, they’re down still. We expect them to be in sort of the in growth – growing in the back half of the year. Overall, we expect hardware to grow mid-single digits.

When it comes to devices, we believe that, first of all, everybody’s got notebooks now. There’s many fewer desktops. The life of notebooks is generally shorter. Those notebooks are aging, and there’s a lot of interest in AI enabled PCs, but also refresh due to Windows 11. And also, everyone needs to be able to operate in a hybrid environment. And so there’s improvements around quality, sound quality, cameras, et cetera, et cetera. So the ASPs are likely to be higher, and that will help us.

Thanks, Jake.

Anthony, I would not say that. I think we’re at the beginning of the beginning of this Gen AI sort of period. So I think very – customers are very, very interested in understanding what Gen AI can do. They are trying to understand things like security and policy, governance, training, change management, how to make sure their data is set up.

There’s lots and lots of questions. We’re spending a lot of time on this with our clients, but I don’t think that is materially impacting spend yet in sort of standard customers. Of course, there’s a lot of people buying chips and a lot of people building data centers and things like that. But in terms of sort of normal enterprises and organizations, I would not say that that is driving it.

I think the caution – the overall macro caution is driving some delay in spending. And lots and lots of our customers are just trying to figure out how their year is going to shake out. And I think that is the big issue. I think there is a forcing function in the back half of the year, primarily around refresh and also around Windows 11, that we’re starting to hear lots of questions about that. And this AIPC I think is going to help us with a certain segment of the customer base as the use cases become clear and the value is becomes more obvious. But I would not call that. I don’t think that’s a driving factor of the caution in the spend on devices.

Absolutely. And that is really driven by the continued growth in cloud and services and software like we’ve been talking about, the fastest growing areas of the market, the areas where our customers need the most help. And also normalizing OpEx as we learn more about how to manage these businesses for sure. That is consistent with our KPIs that we put out in October of 2022.

Thanks, Anthony. Appreciate it.

Yes. I mean, they absolutely performed per our expectations and we’re really pleased with those initiatives and we think they have a lot of staying power. As Glynis said, we have built them into the mechanics of our operating rhythm and we expect to drive continued improvement there.

We expect North America to be stronger and we expect every segment in North America to grow, but we also expect EMEA to improve as well.

We are seeing sequential improvement in both and we expect both to grow for the year. As I said earlier, SMB spend is usually a good indicator that the other segments will follow. And so we expect that to be true and we’re encouraged by what we’re seeing in the SMB space.

Thank you very much to all of you for your questions and your interest. We are very excited about the opportunities ahead of us and I look forward to sharing our continued progress on our journey to becoming the leading solutions integrator. You can now close the call, operator. Thank you.