Kirsten Lynch
Vail Resorts, Inc. (MTN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, thank you, Shaun. Thanks for the question. Related to fiscal year ‘24 and Q1, we do have some unique items that are impacting us. In Q1, we have inflation and the impact of -- including the impact of our employee investment, the Australia winter conditions impact, and then to a lesser extent, our North American summer impact as well. When we look at that in total, that is a big impact for us on the fiscal year. When you take out that Q1 impact and look at the rest of the year for winter, I think we feel quite good about the fiscal year plan and the margin that we expect to deliver as a result.

Yeah, you're absolutely right, Shaun, and we had a lot of disruptions this past season. We are planning for normal again. Obviously, weather disruptions are very hard to predict. I think the way we approach our guidance range is it assumes normal condition across our resorts which leads upside for strong weather conditions and downside for challenging weather conditions. And there's normal conditions and normal disruptions like wind-hold, but an example of something abnormal would be like what happened to us in the East. It is really -- so yes, we are guiding our guidance range to normal conditions and our business model as you know is very focused on trying to mitigate those impacts with our geographic diversity, advanced commitment, getting as many guests as we can committed in advance of the season, investing in snowmaking, and our Commitment to Zero and our sustainability actions as well.

Yeah, we are expecting, Laurent, strong growth across our ancillary businesses with particular focus on F&B, as I highlighted in the remarks. F&B grew significantly last year but did not return all the way to pre-COVID. We know that we delivered a strong guest experience and that we are recovering from significant restrictions that were put on our dining business in the years following COVID, including a requirement for reservations, a requirement for vaccines, reduced menu options.

So as we think about that business, we expect to continue on a strong growth trajectory for that dining business and we're very focused on building awareness of all of the unique food variety offerings we have, building awareness among our more than 2 million pass holders that we had last year, about the 20% discount that's a part of the loyalty benefits that they have as pass holders, which certainly helps mitigate some of those inflationary prices. And we have the new My Epic app that we'll be launching where we can start to talk to our guests one-to-one about our ancillary businesses through the app, which we also hope will give us the opportunity to have some personalized communication to help build awareness and bring people back into our restaurants and continue that growth trajectory that we've been on.

Yes, thank you, Jeff. We are seeing in our North America summer demand, some of that shift in summer travel behavior that you've heard about in the broader marketplace. And certainly, when you look at broad market data for Western mountain resorts and the lodging occupancy, it does reflect over the summer declines versus 2019. As we think about -- so we do feel that our business was impacted and a part of those shifting consumer behaviors. As we look forward to winter though, I think summer and winter businesses are very different, attract very different guests. And I think the key indicator for demand to look at for this upcoming winter season is our season pass business.

And our results are very strong on our season pass business with strong unit growth and strong dollar sales growth, strong renewals being the key driver of that, also incremental growth with new pass holders and seeing growth in every geography, destination, international, all of our core local geographies as well and across all product segments. So when I look at indicators for winter, I would take our pass sales as the strongest indicator for winter versus summer which has very different guests and behavior associated with it.

Hi, Jeff. Yeah, on the cost inflation there, in Q1, right, we always have inflation before the revenues, as I was mentioning. And so I think what you should think about is, you can see from inflation data that's out there, what a normal inflation would be on our expense structure. And then for us, right, there are some investments that we always typically make in Q1 ahead of the season. And so I would point you toward the full year margin guidance of 31% where you can see how those impacts are really playing out in terms of some of the demand pieces and things we're quantifying for Q1 specifically, but then how that is expected to kind of level out throughout the season.

Correct, and that's something that we normally see in our Q1 ahead of winter season in North America.

Thank you, Jeff.

So on our margin expectations for FY ‘24, the -- in FY ’22, we had some anomaly margin expansion because of the labor shortage. This year coming into FY ‘24, we're expecting a strong margin at 31% at the midpoint. And I think, when we look at it, I think we look at winter margin looks very strong and positive. We are seeing, feeling pressure because of the Q1 assumptions that we just walked through. We see opportunities going forward in terms of resource efficiencies. And one of the key assumptions that we have in our strategies and our priorities in FY ‘24 is workforce management and rolling out workforce management across all 37 of our resorts. Beyond that also, continuing to invest in guest self-service, which creates efficiencies as well as automation. So I feel very good about the 31% margin that we're going to achieve and believe that there is opportunity going forward given the scale of the business, the investments that we've made in an integrated network that give us the opportunity to unlock some additional margin expansion in the future.

Hi, Patrick.

I think that I feel very good about where we are on pass sales right now, and we are guiding that they may moderate for the full year because it is pretty typical for our growth rates to moderate as we go through the sales cycle. And that guidance that we provided wasn't specific to this September time period, but as it relates to the full year and what our expectations are for the full year. We are, as you know, constantly working to pull our guest decision-making earlier and earlier in the sales cycle, which can impact the sales that occur and the growth rates that occur later in the selling cycle. Also, as we move through the selling period, later in the selling period tends to be focused on more new pass holders making decisions versus our loyal renewing pass holders. And so, there can be more variability in the forecasting around our new product sales, which we generally see those growth rates decline the later we get in that selling cycle. But nothing structurally that is concerning about our pass sales, actually feel like we're in a great spot given we see incredibly strong loyalty and renewals and that's really driving the growth where we are right now, growth across all the geographies and growth across all of the product segments.

Yeah, we strive to put out a guidance and a forecast that is very balanced with a reasonable opportunity for upside and downside on it and really striking a balance. On the normal weather impact, I agree with you. There's always something that happens and we factor that in. The pieces that are not assumed because we obviously can't predict them is when it is something so abnormal such as what happened this past year where we were down to grass in January at some of our ski areas and that can -- that we can't predict and that we are not assuming in the forecast as we have no way to do that. But we do try to strike a real balance on the fact that there will always be some variability.

Thank you, Patrick.

I'm feeling very good about our labor situation and where we are in terms of wages. Last year, our -- we made a big investment in our employees' wages, benefits, affordable housing, leadership development. And where we are right now is we are ramping up staffing. It's early, but we're ramping up staffing for this season and feeling good about where we are in terms of retaining employees and attracting new highly qualified top talent frontline employees. And I think from a wage perspective, I feel good about our wages and our starting wages being competitive in order to attract the strong frontline talent that we need for this upcoming season. So that's what we've assumed in the budget I feel good about and that we can deliver against it as it relates to staffing and where we are on our wages.

Thank you.

I would not say that there is a material change in our focus and that this is a priority for us. Affordable housing is a crisis in so many geographies as you know, and in our mountain community, continues to be challenging and a crisis in many places. It is not an easy problem to solve. We are committed to making investments. We made some great progress last year. We've also run into obstacles. And we continue to stay diligent and focused on investing in this. I would say, when you look at our staffing this past year, we did get fully staffed despite a tight labor market and despite the challenges of affordable housing. That does not mean that we're going to let up our intense focus on continuing to make progress, but it's also important to note that it is possible for us to get fully staffed as we work through these challenges in partnership with our communities, in partnership with other developers and partners, but I'd say, yeah, we're in the same spot and suspect we will be for a while because it's a significant challenge.

That's correct, Brandt. That is -- the employee investment impact in this year is the impact of the timing of when the employee investment was implemented last year. And so we've got two months of impact incrementally hitting this year and that investment is in our cost structure going forward.

Yes, we are seeing -- I mean, the primary driver of our growth right now that we're reporting is primarily driven by the loyalty of our pass holders and we're seeing strong renewals across all different levels of our pass holders versus prior year, which we are thrilled with because it's critical to success of the pass program to have that loyalty and those renewals while we're also going after new pass holders and bringing people in. I will share also an interesting piece that is, when we look at new pass holders, Megan, we look at people that are brand new coming to Vail Resorts, people converting from a list ticket, but we also look at people who used to be pass holders, what we would call lapsed pass holders from any prior years in the past. It could be from a year ago, two years ago, five years ago, eight years ago. And we are achieving strong growth, significantly strong growth among that population, people who used to be pass holders that are now coming back to us.

Thank you, Megan.

Thank you, operator. This concludes our fiscal 2023 year-end earnings call. Thank you to everyone who joined us today. Please feel free to contact me or Angela directly, should you have further questions. Thank you for your time this afternoon. Goodbye.
