Kristin Peck
Zoetis Inc. (ZTS) Q4 2023 Earnings Conference Call Transcript

Thank you, Erin. I will take the first question on Librela and let Wetteny take that second question. Yes, we were very pleased with how we did with Librela in the first full quarter of launch in Q4. As you saw, we did about $44 million in the quarter, $47 million for the year, including the early experience trial. And really how we achieved that was our penetration was ahead of schedule, as we mentioned in the prepared remarks. Given that penetration, which is in the high 60s, we actually began DTC ahead of what we were expecting. Reorder rates are coming in exactly where we expected, in line with our expectations. So, that makes us really confident as we go into the year. We're looking at what - your other question was what kind of stocking or inventory build we saw in the clinics. It's hard to give you a firm number. It's somewhere between a quarter and a third, I would say, overall in stocking. But look, this is the number one selling pain product in Europe, and we have no doubt it will be that in the US as well. So, we're quite pleased and certainly ahead of our plan on penetration. And look, with our direct-to-consumer advertising investments, we've already started late last year and into Q1 to drive growth in this product in the US. So, I'll let Wetteny take the second question.

No, it’s great.

Sure. I'll start with that one and Wetteny can certainly build on it. I mean, I want to first underscore, we had a very strong Q4 with Trio, with 21% growth in the quarter with competition. For the year overall, Trio grew 9%. So, we're very pleased with that. As we guided and Wetteny mentioned earlier, we're expecting mid to high single digit growth in Trio for the year. So, this obviously underscores, and we think we'll see that both in price and in volume. So, we do anticipate, obviously a competitor entering. I'm not exactly sure what - how Purdue or Proctor will do it. Our expectation is that is not a differentiated product. They do mention tapeworm, but you get tapeworm from fleas, and we absolutely control fleas. So, therefore, that's really not a differentiated product. So, we are used to having good competitors, obviously with NexGard. I'm sure there'll be some heavy promotional, but I think our strength, honestly, with our corporate accounts, the experience, switching is low for people with this product. It's very unlikely someone on Trio is going to switch. We're doing quite well with retail and auto-ship, which I think also protects us. And we expect a new competitor to expand the market. What we're seeing a lot is a movement into the triple combos out of topicals, collars, et cetera. So, as we look at that, we're confident in our Trio number as we look into the year. And with regards to your question on, what do we learn from Librela in Europe? So, we cannot do branded advertising for Librela in Europe, but we can do overall advertising for disease awareness and encouraging people who have pets, both dogs and cats with osteoarthritis pain, to bring them to the vet. And we are seeing real impact of that disease awareness. I think it's been a long time where pet owners have not had a product that they could turn to, and encouraging them that there is a new product and that they should go to the vet and be seen. We are seeing really positive uplifts from direct-to-consumer advertising, even when it's not branded. So, I don’t know, Wetteny, if you wanted to add into that.

Yep, sure. I'll take the derm question, and I think Wetteny can follow up on your China question. Look, we saw strong growth both in the quarter and overall in derm at 8%. And I just want to underscore that that growth is obviously understated given the price, if you're looking at the pre-price buying that we saw in late 2022. As we look at our guidance for mid to high single-digit growth for our derm franchise in 2024, that is the expectation that we will see a competitor launch. We expect this market to continue to expand and grow, as we've talked about. There are 85 million dogs in the US who have pruritus. There is still over 6 million untreated dogs and 3.5 million who are treated, but with steroids and sort of over-the-counter products. So, we strongly believe this is a market we can continue to expand. Look, we've had two products been on the market seven and 10 years, respectively. We've had millions of dogs on these products. Our products have been proven over time to be safe and efficacious, and they're trusted by pet owners. They're trusted by vets, and we're seeing more and more a switch to Cytopoint, both a preference for compliance by both the pet owner and the vet. And our competition, we're expecting to come in a film-coated tablet. And if you look at that, we're really focused on investing in applicable chewables and moving them to chewables, which pet owners really prefer. We've been successful in doing this in Europe. We're quite focused on doing this in the US and we're also continuing to look at innovation in the short term, on the long acting. So, we are going to defend this franchise. We're confident in this franchise. Our guidance of mid to high single digits demonstrates that we believe we can continue to grow this market in the US and around the world, not just defend our brand, but continue to bring lifecycle innovation to the space over time to grow our share. Wetteny, do you want to take China?

So, I'll take your second question first and then let Wetteny take it. I assume you're referencing the letter back in November. Honestly, the letter is uneventful and was well addressed. We immediately resolved the request for clarification. What you're talking about was a request for clarification on our promotional materials. We just made a minor change to the promotional materials and how we represented some statistical data. The concerns are well addressed and the modifications were accepted by the FDA. I mean, this isn't uncommon. So, I don't - that was easily resolved last year. That was a minor issue, but Wetteny, do you want to take the second question?

Sure. And the question with regard to R&D, obviously we are very confident in our pipeline. I think we've been the most innovative company in animal health. And as you look at the how we exceeded market growth every year for the last 11 years, it is due to the innovation in our pipeline. We are investing both for the short, medium, and long-term in animal health different than human health. That really makes a difference. You look at sort of what I call like lifecycle enhancements that we just launched such as Apoquel chewable, which will significantly support our key brands. We're also looking at pretty disruptive innovations as well. As you look at sort of the short one-to-three-year term of innovation, we're excited really for some of our long actings. And we've talked a lot about investing in the medium to long term in really important new franchises as well such as renal chronic kidney disease spaces, looking at cardiology, looking at oncology and diabetes. There's really important spaces of unmet medical need in animal health that we're really excited to tackle. We're continuing to invest behind our diagnostics, as well as behind our livestock business, looking at new vaccines and immunomodulators in our genetics business. So, we have a very diverse pipeline because we have a diverse portfolio. So, we're continuing to invest behind that and remain very confident in that.

Sure. I mean, starting on the first, we are not very levered, as we've spoken about many times before to vet visits. I mean, obviously, they're not inconsequential. Our view of zero to one is that's where it's historically been. That is historically what you see in vet clinic visits over time. So, I think we're really saying it's back to a normal. What's really happening is there's strong end market demand. There remains some capacity issues in the US, but I think some of that's being addressed by more stuff going to auto-ship and retail and online, which has also been supporting it. But we really sort of view the year, as you look into the year for 2023, although we saw flat vet visits, we saw revenue and revenue per visit up 7.5%. So, we really are seeing really strong growth, obviously overall in revenue, and we're much more correlated over time with that, just given the strength of our portfolio, et cetera. And to your second question with regards to Librela outside the US, I think we're still early innings. And really where I think we see the growth is, right now that product is primarily being used in severe dogs. I think getting it into more moderate dogs, I mean, I think, obviously, at least as someone, in my 50s, I will say my hip hurts right now, but everyone doesn't know that who is around me. And so, the reality is, osteoarthritis exists in animals long before they're limping and can't walk up the stairs. And the more we can control that pain early, I think is critical. So, I think what we're really trying to change the paradigm is getting Librela in first line use for animals with osteoarthritis pain, and getting it into more of those moderate dogs. And we think the more we can do that, the more we can continue to grow the market here and grow our franchise. So, we know, we believe we're in early innings across the globe with regards to osteoarthritis pain with both Librela and certainly with Solensia, where we still have to continue to grow awareness for osteoarthritis pain in cats.

Sure. Obviously, making sure that pet owners can get in monthly for their injections is critical. So, vet capacity is certainly something that we're quite focused on, but I think after the first visit, this is an injection that can certainly be done by a vet tech, and I think the industry's really focused. And we've been partnering with corporates, with the AVMA, with lots of people to really think about how to change the paradigm of vets to vet techs and clinics and things like that. So, we believe there are solutions to really address some of the vet capacity issues. So far globally, and by the way, this vet capacity issue is not just a US issue. It's global. So far, it hasn't affected the growth of our key products. And your second questions with regard to home delivery, you want to take that one?

The only add, we're doing quite well with puppies. You asked specifically with regards to puppies. I mean, puppies are on the Trio label, so I just want to emphasize that. I know it wasn't on the original Simparica. So, I mean, really you are looking at new starts, we see a lot of puppies and we see a lot of conversion from single and dual-agent customers to a triple combination, and certainly a movement to more people from topicals to oral. So, there's lots of ways for us to continue to gain market share for that product, but we're doing quite well with puppies, to answer that other part of your question.

Great. Thank you all so much for the questions, and honestly, for continued interest in Zoetis. I want to underscore that the enduring strength of the human-animal bond for pet owners’ expectations of human quality healthcare for pets, and the need for safe and secure food supply, all underscore the animal health industry is essential and very durable. We remain confident about our strategy and the ongoing value proposition, because we know that our colleagues will make a difference every day in everything that we're doing. And with their support, I want to reiterate that we expect to grow faster than the market again in 2024, not just in line, and to grow operational revenue by mid to high single digits. We are firmly committed to investing in our innovative pipeline, our portfolio, and the DTC programs we need to support the broadening and building billion-dollar franchises. The animal health industry is resilient even in times of uncertainty, and we are poised to navigate these challenges because our portfolio diversity, our commitment to exceptional customer experience, operational excellence and agility, and we look forward to keeping you updated on our progress on future calls. Thanks much for joining us today, guys. Have a great day.