Laura Alber
Williams-Sonoma, Inc. (WSM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. I'm so excited about West Elm. I've had a chance to see all of the product that's coming in this year and their strategies. And I think it's a very clear exciting growth story again for us. I think in terms of timing, it's always hard to predict exactly when things will go. But we are seeing, as I said, really strong results, not just in the holiday seasonal décor, but the new product offer that's core. And the new design language that we've brought out, the new modern forms, we are building back our non-furniture business, which drives customer engagement and also new customer acquisition and is very relevant and important for UPTs and repeat purchases. So that is on its way. You're going to see that continue to grow through the year. And then also now that we have success on some of these furniture items, we know that the time line on when a furniture bestseller will be relevant is a lot longer than if you're a fashion apparel person. So we can then buy into it with confidence versus now our newness, although, very high over last year, is it's just not a big enough percent of the total. So as we buy back into these winners and they compound through the year, that's when we expect to see then hit the total top line in a meaningful way.

It's not a difference in approach. It's that when we see more opportunity, we invest more. And so we want to invest in advertising, if we're going to get paid back. So we are looking at this every day, every week, every brand. And we're so lucky, to have a test-and-learn methodology where we can try something in one brand. And if it works, roll it. And if it doesn't work, shut it down. And so when we find something that works, you spend more, the ad cost then stays lower or it goes up with sales in tandem giving you more on the bottom-line. We've done this for years. It's a little more complicated than it used to be when we just had the catalog, because there's so many different things to invest in. And we're seeing a lot of opportunity in organic social now. And that is not paid. Now it helps to have paid social go along with organic social, but we're getting really good at pushing our content not just through our own channels, but into the whole social media world in a very effective way to get new customers into our brands. And so, it's not just the ad cost spend, it's the creative spend because in building that incredible content like we did with Stanley Tucci, for example, which continues to be a really wonderful example of a successful collaboration that's working both in the short-term sales but also in bringing new customers to the brand. And so it's a great example of the kind of things that are changing, and they're really different from 10 years ago, when those channels were not available to use.

Thanks.

Yes. So really exciting story in our retail stores because we're very successfully leaving certain stores in certain areas and moving to vibrant centers. A great example is Annapolis. I don't know if you've been there, but we moved our WS and it's right next to a Whole Foods, which is a really different strategy than your traditional retail placement. And it's really -- it's up to pro forma. It's up to the previous store and the four wall [ph] is much higher than our average. It's a really good case of where we work to the landlord to really build a killer store, and we're paying less and the financials are really strong and the store is great for the customers. And so that's what we continue to do as leases come up for renewal, there are amazing centers we're staying in, and we've been successful in reinvesting in the right things so that if you're staying in the center, the stores look really fresh and also serve the customer in the way they want to be served, and there's new things than when we built stores 10 years ago, new businesses to fund, space allocation. And so across all of our brands, we're constantly looking at what's working, what's not working and how do we continue to optimize, but also keeping that beautiful inspiring store experience where you go in and we say the music plays, and you're excited to be there and you're inspired by the features, and we've got great salespeople who help you. And we're matching that also with very intuitive and helpful tech to help build these rooms, these houses. And just while I'm talking about this, I really just -- during this time where people are buying less furniture, we've taken the time to really reinvest in how we take our design service to the next level because we know that they're dying to buy new houses. And when the market switches, we're going to be there with an advanced platform for design services that we can use and leverage in our stores and also online that I think is game changing.

You’re welcome.

Sure, Max. We really do have a strong lineup of opportunities in our portfolio of brands, and we're really confident in our outlook. Some examples of things that are working, we're in a color trend phase, and we're seeing print and pattern and color sell across the brands actually. Easter is strong. That's good. It's early. So, Jeff is telling me to be careful with this comment because when it's early, sometimes it ends a little differently than you expect but so far so good and even shifted. That tells you customers we saw Christmas decor be strong, too, Easter. This is good for our brands. There's not a lot of people out there that serve in a quality way, the seasonal holidays. And we think they're wonderful. We love to decorate and entertain and show people how to do that across them. And for West Elm, that's been a business they haven't really gone after. So that's really upside for them. Easy updates, people, they may not be buying a house, but they might decide to redo one room. And we can see the effects of that on our sales. And also, the projects, I mentioned in my prepared remarks about rejuvenation. Bath and kitchen remodels are still happening, and we are getting more attention as someone who can help provide high-quality and unique products in those spaces. New furniture, we're seeing strong results in West Elm, as I mentioned, new forms, and that's very exciting. And then collaboration, so whether it's Tucci, I keep talking about Tucci, Colin King, LoveShackFancy, Sheila Bridges else. I mean, we've got a wide range of these collaborations. And they're just -- they bring new customers in, and we have a great time with them. They help us think about new design language that we may not naturally design into. And all of that is really good for the teams and great for the customers. And then there's continued categories that we're pushing as a bigger percent of total and pulling back. And so, without going on too long or giving away too much competitive information, we're seeing some pockets where we have a lot of upside. The other thing that's really important in all this that you guys got to realize is that we continue to reduce our promotional offering. So at the same time that we're pushing this growth posture for this year, we are also absolutely determined to continue to pull back on promotions, which is a tricky thing, right? So we did it last year. You're going to see us continue to push it this year and balance the two out. We really believe strongly that long term, this is the right thing for our business. And we will take markdowns, and we will always try new things, and sometimes they don't work so you take a markdown, but we do not want to have up down pricing in our brands.

Sure. So our team, our supply chain team, I'd say, is just phenomenal, and they continue to show that through the results. Although things have normalized from the pandemic, we still have a lot of areas for improvement, which will result in margin upside. We want to continue to drive down returns and replacements and any issue that affects the customer. We want a perfect delivery. We want to take all the friction of that delivery. And so we're seeing incredible numbers across the board, on all those metrics I mentioned in my script. When a problem comes along, they're real, the Red Sea disruption is pretty terrible. However, it is not costing us any more money. So far, it is costing us about 10 days of delivery, give or take. And as I mentioned last time, we padded the deliveries to our customers once we heard about it, so we didn't disappoint them. And if we outperform and deliver faster, they're always happier than if it's late because they don't -- they can't -- most people don't connect anything with these world events. And so we have to really manage our delivery quotes very quickly once we hear these things. That's the most recent example. There is no doubt in my mind, Peter, that this year will be met with other things that we have to deal with. We tend to be very proactive about thinking about what those things could be to make sure that we're ahead. And I guess the good news is if there is any -- when these things happen, they affect everyone. And we're usually able to get ahead of it and solve it better than most.

Yes, Chris. Hi, it's Laura. How are you? I just wanted to comment, I think it's important to remember that our focus this year is threefold. It's delivering growth, elevating customer service and driving margin. And we believe we can do all three things. We have that many opportunities in our model with our platform, with our world-class brands to achieve those things. I really -- as we look to the year, believe that the natural investments that we need to make will drive the top line. And so to the extent of the line-by-line, I know we're not answering your questions about those, line-by-line. But you've seen our -- what we produced even in a down cycle, right, with margin improvements. And as I said in I think last call, I can imagine what that looks like in an up cycle. Our investments that we've been making, over the last 10 years have gotten us to a place where we are ready for more volume, without having to have a step-up infrastructure investment. So while we talk about these things, they're small potatoes, compared to distribution costs that others are a real platform, re-platform costs that others have to put in place. We're ready for the volume to come this year and next -- and really excited about how that not only flows through, but also the opportunities to improve these customer service lines and we love those customer service lines because they drive margin.

Yeah. It's interesting, Kate. We try to glean every piece of information from sales and then they change. So I don't think it's fair to say right now, that there's a specific price point that's the magic price point. We're seeing success across all prices. The customer wants a value. So we have some really expensive stuff, that's really selling. And then we have some value price points that are really selling. And so there's not a pattern there that I'd hang a strategy on for now. In all of our brands, we've worked on great value to the consumer and also really new fresh designs. And so you cannot underestimate how important it is. When we get it right on a design, it's not that we take advantage of the price, it's that our price is generally a lot cheaper than other people making the same product and our quality is better. So we're -- that's what we're focused on is delivering value to the customer -- and I -- we are trying about this before the call, I can't prove that it's low prices, it's mid prices or it's high prices that are soft or strong. It's the stuff they want. And it's the new fresh product.

Well, thank you all for joining us. We really appreciate your support and look forward to seeing some of you in New York and talking to you throughout the year.