Lori Flees
Valvoline Inc. (VVV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Daniel.

Great question, Daniel. We were really pleased with the progress in Q4. Obviously, Q1 was a surprise in a disappointment based on the pushouts we saw. But given some very quick actions that we took to support our franchisees and helping them put stores up and get them running given supply chain and permitting challenges we felt really good about where we landed in Q4 as did our franchise partners.

And we had an opportunity two weeks ago to actually meet with our franchise partners. We have an annual workshop with them. And in that we had a development council where we had our real estate construction leadership and the leaders of the developing franchise partners all come together and talk about FY 2024 and beyond.

And I would say there is significant excitement about the opportunities in the market both on the M&A side and on the new build side. I mean this market is still very fragmented. And while Valvoline as a brand is the market leader in this space we only have 5% market share, which means that there's incredible white space to develop our footprint. And so in working with the franchise partners as we've stated we have a goal of getting to 250 new units per year developed by 2027 and 150 of those coming from our franchise partners.

Now within the 150 about two-thirds will come from our existing partners. So that meeting that we had two weeks ago was really reinforcing on both sides about how we'll work together to get to that. And so we feel good about the pipeline our franchisees we have franchisees asking for some expansion of their territories. We have active development agreement updates underway and so we feel really strong about the guide that we have laid out for FY 2024 of 140 to 170 new units with 55 to 70 coming from franchise. And we expect the franchise piece to continue to build year-over-year from our existing players as a big component of that 150 total target.

No. I would add the same. I think the teams are really energized around opportunities to both grow cars in our existing stores and drive ticket and our franchise partners. And we and the company operating side both feel like we're going into FY 2024 with really strong momentum.

Great question, Steven, I think as we looked at Q4, we -- and as we move into FY 2024, we felt we finished very strong at 10% same-store sales growth. As expected, September was slightly lower than the rest of the quarter, because we lapped a pricing increase that we did year-over-year.

But I think, overall, we delivered the quarter as we would expect. Now as we moved into the New Year, at the October -- the start of October was a little soft, but that was relative to a very strong compare year-over-year.

And as we move through October, we saw the momentum year-over-year start to increase and we feel really good about where our guide is and getting -- having a six- to nine-year percent same-store sales across the board, across the business for the year.

So I think the guidance is very good. There's always -- we're working to hit as high in the guidance, as we can and that comes from initiatives that we have around continuing to focus on non-oil-change revenue presentation.

We have some marketing optimization to drive new customer acquisition at a lower cap rate. And then we have a bunch of initiatives around the fleet to get higher penetration of existing accounts.

And as those things start to come then obviously the same-store sales growth will be stronger. But we feel really good about where we're coming into the year and how the teams have gone after the business so far.

Sure, Simeon. We're actually seeing -- we see pockets of discounting happening by competitors, but it hasn't actually changed our overall approach. And when we look at our retention rate for new-to-file customers that's customers who've never been to VIOC location. We have not seen any difference in retention rate, over last year and we don't expect to -- in the coming year. We actually have initiatives to try to increase retention by just addressing some of the feedback around our process for new customers.

In fact, if we look at FY 2023, we've been doing a lot of work to optimize our marketing spend and really get more almost personalization approach to discounts that are offered, and our year-over-year discount has come down even in an environment where I think people are concerned about the resiliency of the customer. We're just getting smarter around, what discounts are required for which type of customers, based on the channel that we're acquiring from. But on the promotional side, we're not seeing any deterioration on the retention of a new to file customer or the active customer base.

Yes. I'll just add Kate, that the sweet spot or the highest percentage of penetration of the car park is between year six and nine of vehicle life. But that said, the average age of the vehicle this year this past year that came in relative to the year before was 10 months older. So, we are seeing people keep their cars longer. We know that that's data that's out in the market and that has actually also been consistent, with our customers' vehicle age. But the level of penetration is the highest in your six through about 10, and then it continues to expand out as customers keep their cars.

I do agree with Mary, we have been expecting the dealers to start to use other preventive maintenance as a way to bring people back in to look for cars. I think with the automotive strike that they may have held off on that, just given where supply is, but that's our assumption because we're not seeing it at this time. We may see pockets of it in a specific market, but we're not actually seeing those kind of dynamics happening from a customer retention or an acquisation standpoint.

Thanks, Kate.

Good morning, Bret.

Actually great question. Thanks for asking it. As with all retailers these past couple of years, construction costs have been going up because of inflation both on the GC labor side, just given the tightness but just in terms of material costs have been going up. And so we as a company in trying to make sure that we're maximizing our return on capital invested are looking at ways to reduce the capital cost of new builds in order to ensure that we continue to deliver really attractive return on invested capital, which we have been doing, despite the increase in capital costs for new builds.

We've taken an opportunity to – and hire an A&E firm to relook at our drawings from with a fresh perspective to actually figure out where we can take capital cost out of our design. And we're early on in that process. We've gotten back some initial results. We've engaged our franchise partners two weeks ago on some of those initial results and we'll be taking some of the new designs to the market to bid out. And this is really just trying to get ahead of continued cost inflation and how can we bring down the capital cost. This is something that we've done proactively. We haven't done it because our franchise partners have asked us to or because they're delaying any new builds.

In fact, as I mentioned, the pipeline of new builds on the franchise side is higher than it's ever been. And the reason why is because when you look at a fresh retail site that is in the right location, given traffic and population density, the amount of traffic that you can gain with an optimized marketing spend is very attractive.

From a cash-on-cash return, although it does take more time to build up to that than buying an existing site and converting it. So we're just getting ahead of trying to make sure that we drive the highest return on invested capital. We continue to do that and exceed by a significant amount of our cost of capital but we're always looking for ways to cut that down.

One example I've used is we build out the ceiling in our stores but nobody gets out of their cars. So why do we need to have a completed ceiling? That's just extra cost which is not necessary. And so those are just the things that we're looking at. Our design hasn't changed in many, many years and it's just an opportunity to take a fresh perspective.

The non-oil change revenue increases that we've seen, I mentioned $1.93 in fiscal year 2023, which was our highest both in dollars for non-oil-change revenue services, is really focused on the services that we provide. And so we started the year just going through a do we have the supply and the equipment and is the equipment all in working order such that the services can be provided for any customer whose vehicle requires them. The second is, our team trained in those services to provide a quick easy trusted service delivery of those items those services.

And then the third was, how do we present the services to the customers such that the customer understands why their vehicle needs it and our proposition on doing them relative to others in the marketplace. And it's really just going back to basics to make sure that our team is equipped and trained and can communicate what the customer acquires based on the age or the functioning of the vehicle as it presents itself to our stores.

We are and always look at adding additional services. And we do see opportunities but we have to make sure that: A, they fit our proposition of Quick Easy Trusted. B, that we can train our team to do them effectively and efficiently and then make sure that we understand the requirements from a capital perspective. But we're always looking for ways to expand our reach.

And when -- as we talk to fleet managers, they're really leading some of that discussion are helping us evaluate, because they love the one-stop shop nature and the more that we can do in our stores in a quick easy trusted way. That's been a good discussion point in us validating where we should focus. But we don't have anything to report at this time. We'll, obviously, give updates and share more as we have it.

Yeah. The one thing I'd just set context on is our market share of the fleet business is I think less than 1% or around 1%. And our overall market share in the oil change space is about 5%. So we see significant opportunity just to get our fleet penetration or share up to where we are overall as a market.

We haven't shared what our growth rate is on the fleet side, but we expect that it will continue to outpace our overall growth because we are having fantastic discussions with our -- with the fleet management companies as well as with small fleet operators. In this past year, we actually expanded some of our fleet work to cover our franchise partners.

So when you look at growth in fleet overall, fleet of our company stores is a much stronger growth rate. But it is -- I think on the fleet side we'll start to see that accelerate. And the less than 10% was on a system-wide basis. So again we see a lot of opportunity on fleet and we're trying to make sure that we can enable our franchisees to get the benefit of the work we've been doing for the company-operated stores.

I'll let Mary talk about the marketing spend overall. But in terms of our efforts it's around -- we look at new store marketing. So some of our marketing spend is tied around the number of stores that we're launching, and where those stores are. Obviously we've mentioned before that we're trying to focus our new store entry in key markets where we're in filling the market and therefore, marketing costs would be lower than a market that is much less penetrated or new and therefore requires a lot more brand building. But some of the optimization we're doing both for company and for franchise is around new store marketing and what are the most effective tactics given the penetration in the brand that already exists so that we get a faster ramp on new store sales.

Second is some of the tactics that we're doing on how to reactivate customers who are inactive. And by inactive, it just means that they haven't come to us within the last 12 months and we want to find ways to reengage them. And we ran a number of pilots last year on how to do that, doing things like a Father's Day promotion for inactive customers. Those are days where our volume tends to be lower than what our capacity would be. And so if we can market to inactive customers to come in on days that are not as busy. One, they're going to get a great experience. The speed is going to be fantastic and it's a chance to reengage a customer before they defect.

The other thing is really optimizing the channels that we go after new customers and doing that in a more surgical way based on our store base. So we have stores that have been in market for 20 years and the demographics around those stores are not growing at the same pace than other stores. And making sure that we're spending new customer acquisition dollars in areas that are growing and that we are maybe less mature in the marketplace. So these are taking the dollars that we have both in reminding existing customers that they need to get another oil change given the time that we last saw them, but also optimizing our new customer acquisition, so that our cost of customer acquisition is down on a per customer basis.

The last one is we just continue to look at new digital channels and digital tools. We've had a robust marketing and CRM backbone relative to our industry. It really is a standout. But when you compare the things that we have done relative to what broader retail is doing on the digital side, we still see there's opportunities for us to be more effective and more efficient on the marketing side. But Mary, do you want to comment on marketing spend expectations?

Thanks, Emily and thank you all for joining us today and for your thoughtful questions. Since our last update, I've enjoyed spending time with many of you and our investors and I look forward to the ongoing discussions. We have a resilient and durable business and I am excited about the momentum that we're taking into FY '24. So I appreciate your time today. Thanks.