Lynn Bamford
Curtiss-Wright Corporation (CW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thank you for that. And maybe I’ll speak a bit at a high level, and then Chris can put a little financial details behind that. So we’re really pleased with what happened this past year, very strong demand for our tactical communications system sales. It was really the primary driver in that outstanding growth. But it is more broad than that. We’re looking to move towards the initial volumes towards Enduring Shield and our current stabilization capability that is produced over in Europe that we’ve talked about as being aligned with some of the increased foreign military spending as countries move towards funding their NATO commitments. So really a lot of different pockets across the organization driving that. And I’ll have maybe Chris to speak to what we’re expecting here in ‘24.

Yes. I mean, definitely, we booked a lot of properties in ‘23 and didn’t find one that we felt really matched the criteria. And I’ll tell you, when I do reflect on how the ESCO business and the PacStar business are contributing to our growth, I mean, Chris just talked a little bit about the PacStar acquisition. It really reinforces why you remain very diligent in not acquiring for acquiring’s sake. But with that said, I will say that the acquisition pipeline right now is as healthy as I can remember it being for many years. And it’s not just there is acquisitions, there is always properties coming available. These are properties that we see as being potentially very strong strategic fit for Curtiss-Wright and rounding out product capabilities and customer access in markets that are very important and critical to our growth. Several of these, we’ve had pre looks at, and you’ll know they will be coming to the market. Any chance we can have them be exclusively with Curtiss-Wright, we always have a keen eye to pursue that, whether we accomplish that or not, it’s TBD.

We are in due diligence with a fairly small property right now that I anticipate we will close on. It’s not meaningful, really, from a revenue standpoint, but in a critical piece of technology. So that might be something coming out in the near future. But the other properties we’re looking at that are in the pipeline will significantly move the needle revenue and profitability wise for Curtiss-Wright, and we feel that they can become part of Curtiss-Wright, and over a couple of years, continue to be accretive to our overall margin expansion.

So the acquisition pipeline is really great, and some of that is with our current cash position, knowing that and the cost of capital to borrow is – we’ve given ourselves a bit of a pause of how we’re using the cash we have on hand to make sure we’re ready to act and can do it in the most affordable way for Curtiss-Wright.

Thank you.

Sure. I’d love to take that question. So I’m pleased to say that we have really opportunities across all three of our segments that we have products and technologies that are very much aligned to healthy end market trends that we feel passionate about the investments we’re making. Just to restate what you heard, we increased our total engineering spend in ‘23 by $20 million, and we’re targeting another $20 million increase in 2024. Those are some significant investments that are really, very laser-focused, that driving organic growth that we know will be profitable organic growth going forward.

And so just as walking across the segments, we spend most of our IRAD in Defense Electronics. We continue to look to drive increased IR&D spending in that segment again this year, with very much of focus around building out our MOSA and SOSA cost product offering, which is just really the open standard approach that our DoD is demanding as being the key criteria and system selection and just continuing to gain force across all branches of the government. So, that’s kind the most notable from R&D. But right behind it, in the A&I segment, we are building out of our power electronics capability, and we’ve talked about that as – are bringing new products to market in this area is really what’s underpinning our ability to put forth growth in this industrial area that is not seen a lot of natural growth in the market, but it’s really our new product injunctions and bringing new products and winning new customers that is driving that. So that’s another area of the IR&D.

And then I think of some of the CR&D increases, also up in the A&I segment, a lot of there were a lot of electromechanical actuation capabilities. We’re still executing on the – our first win with Airbus for electromechanical actuation. It is going very well, and then affording us opportunities for new and additional programs with Airbus, which is just going to provide great growth for Curtiss-Wright going forward. But also some of that same electromechanical actuation on a variety of defense platforms. And we talk about Endurant Shield, some of the other ones we can’t really speak about openly. But a lot the capability that, that team has is pretty unique and outstanding and we’re finding homes for it, both across Commercial and Defense markets.

And then last but not least, in our Naval & Power segment, there is a lot – if you read the presses across naval platforms, there is a lot of work going on for next-generation platforms across many critical platforms. Curtiss-Wright is a thought leader with our navy in these spaces and doing advanced work to help position our technologies and content on those future platforms. That’s one area. And then obviously, the work that we’ve been very much highlighting around our investments we’re making along with customers to assure that we have strong positions across all the SMR platforms. So we’ve talked openly about a few of those announcements with X-energy and TerraPower. And – but I assure you, we are active with all the major providers that are building out, we will have future next-generation SMRs. And so that’s all I think really some of the top areas, but these are exciting investments and are really great about what it’s going to do for Curtiss-Wright for decades to come.

Thank you.

So very reasonable question. I think we’re really proud in the Defense Electronics space. I’d say we’re very proud of the product offering we have in industry today. We have a couple – actual quite a handful of really major developments that will hit the market in this calendar year. But I’d say, to some degree, I appreciate your point. We will be very solidly into delivering what we need to do to have the state-of-the-art product offering. Always in this area, though, there is new technology coming to bear, that are of interest by our defense department for finding different applications.

And we are also always – our goal isn’t to just have next generation on the current platforms we have, but to really broaden our product offering to be able to attack more and more of the market. I mean we have talked, I think at our last Investor Day that it’s hard to exactly size, but the belief for us is that the total spend just in the U.S. on ruggedized electronics is somewhere north of $40 billion. And it’s probably because we are – the size of our Defense Electronics team, which is still under $1 billion, there is a heck of a lot of electronics content out there that we can go after with maybe doing customer-funded projects that are spins of our own technologies we have invested in. And so I don’t think we are going to see a rapid acceleration in that space, but I think we don’t – certainly don’t want to let our foot off the pedal as we really become such a dominant player and without going too deep into it, but there are some issues going on in the industry across some of our competition. And when you have those types of situations, it’s the perfect time to strike. And we are making sure we are aggressive to get in with customers and to provide solutions where some of those opportunities begin. So, you are fair – a good point in the SMRs and even in some of these naval platforms, these are going to carry on for a handful of more years. And I think we talked about anticipating there is – everywhere you turn, everyone is trying to have their first new platforms beyond their producing power 2030, 2031, 2032. There is lots of examples, whether new AP1000 plants or the AP300s over in the UK or wherever. And so we are going to move through development work for the next couple of years with that. But that should be turning to prototyping work and early production work in this decade towards the back half of this decade. And I don’t want to say, the design work will go away, but you don’t redesign an SMR every year. And so I think as we do work through some of the development work right now, tied to these next-generation reactors, we will see that slowdown as we move through the next couple of years.

I missed it, you said, how do I see what environment?

So, it seems steady as these companies secure their funding and move to their contracts that we just continue to work with them. We saw a pretty nice surge in 2023. I don’t think we are going to see a big surge in 2024 over top of that. I will say though, where the order book does remain very strong compared to these next-generation reactors is in the aftermarket work. And talking with some key individuals in that business yesterday, really celebrate how strong the order book is already out of the gate this year. And then obviously, the needle-moving activity of when the first AP1000 RCP pumps, obviously unlike any other type of orders, we really get across this organization. So, I would say the SMR development is more steady than expanding.

Thank you, Peter.

So, I think we are going to protect the core always as a priority. But we kind of talk – adding at a high level without tipping our hands of some strategic investments we are making as part of always pushing the window of what types of products we can bring to bear in the market. And we have talked about an area for focus for investments is around the topics of encryption and cyber security and the anti-tamper, and so that is an area that I will say, hopefully, that we are continuing to focus on and is a critical capability that we could bring there in the markets that will allow us to grow our market share. And I will leave it at that.

Yes. So, I mean obviously, we are projecting modest margin expansion next year. I don’t want to at all project that, that is the new normal, and there isn’t more opportunity long-term outside of that. I mean these – all this has – we are doing a significant amount of work in developing these SMRs. And even the subsea pump that – the Petrobras press release last week. When you are getting paid development work from your customers, you are not making margins that are going to be accretive to the corporation. And we are the development work is significant. Shell and TITAN continue to go on. And so we have all that going on. Those projects will turn to production revenue, all of them, late in this decade and later this decade and really have the ability to provide meaningful margin expansion as the low-margin work goes away and is replaced with a very solid margin production work. And so – and then I think we can drive the type of growth, we think there are the possible in our Defense Electronics team, which delivers very accretive margin to Curtiss-Wright. That continues to provide uplift across the organization. And I will comment that a couple of the acquisitions we are looking at, the devil is in the detail and you have to do due diligence, but some of those have very healthy looking margin profile. So, right now, the guide for ‘24 is doing the right things in this year to really secure a fantastic future for Curtiss-Wright. Again, we will continue to look at top quartile and challenge ourselves to be in the top quartile. We do talk about that openly inside of the company with everyone that we have a goal quite a few years ago, getting to 17%, but that was then. And top quartile margins continue to go up amongst our peer group. And so we need to continue to challenge ourselves to do that. So, I know that you weren’t expecting me to say, yes, here is our new 3-year margin target, but hopefully, that puts some color on the thinking.

Thank you for that. So, I would say, broadly, the content stays relatively stable on the platform. So, that’s a starting point. Now, we are always looking to change that. And there are tech refreshes. There has been a lot of tech revisions in ground vehicles over the past years. And they will – we are consistently chasing those, which are opportunities for new content on those platforms. And there is a lot of special operations provisions and new capabilities added to older fighter jets. So, as much as the F-35 is relatively stable to funding [ph] in TR-3, that’s a growth area for us as we have all our support we provide for the testing of those aircraft. It’s – we look to grow our content on those – across those production platforms as they have new and incremental capabilities that they are looking for. But the default is they are stable. So, I don’t know if that’s the answer to your question, but…

Those are not decisions that the Navy would make on a very rapid fire basis. I mean they – these are very stable platforms that they want stable suppliers. But we are a solid supplier across the submarine platforms and stay in close contact with our customers that if there is opportunities to take over supply and capability, that we are there to explore new opportunities. They don’t come very often, but our reputation across Virginia and the Columbia-class program would afford us to be that person or that company, I think if a relevant opportunity became available. But I would be cautious to speak to anything specifically as that’s not really how the Navy runs itself on a normal basis.

Go ahead, Chris. I will let you…

Yes. I think Louie, when you put it in perspective, quite frankly, some of the things going on around the world and the ever visible critical role that these types of systems play for countries where there is active conflicts, I think our enthusiasm isn’t tied only to 2024. It’s more what we know is going on and the long-term potential for where this capability will be deployed around the globe to provide protection. That is some of the excitement.

No, not at this point in time. I know there is some pressure. But really broadly, things have gone very well in Poland, and they are making steady progress. And so I think from our perspective, and working closely with Westinghouse, we don’t see any change out of what we are expecting.

Thank you.

Thank you everybody and I look forward to speaking with you again at our Q1 earnings call, and hopefully seeing all of you at our Investor Day. Thank you.
