Mary Dillon
Foot Locker Inc. (FL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Bob. I'll just start high level and just say, as we look at ‘24, it's an important year that I think accomplishes a couple things. We see strong results happening with our Lace Up plan, and we are committed to continue to invest in those strategy. The green shoots we're seeing encourage us that this is the right path for us and to really drive us in terms of being a really sustainable long-term, great omni-channel retailer.

So, those strategies are super important. We also, in ‘24, as you know, we are showing top line improvement, comp growth, as well as EBIT margin expansion. So, we believe it's the right path to continue to move us on the path to achieve our Lace Up plan goals. And so that's how we constructed the plan and feel good about it. And Mike, would you like to add more?

Yes. I feel this is one of the things we feel very good about is that we can see a direct path between our conversion improvements and the strategies that we've been implementing in our Lace Up plan. For example, digital, our conversion is at an all-time high and that's driven by improvements that we have specifically made as it relates to how we operate our digital strategies.

Our store conversion, omni order traffic, omni average order volume, all up and we can see that directly tracking with things that we are doing in terms of omni selling behaviors in our stores, as well as our merchants doing a great job on assortment. We feel that a lot of the top-line was really driven by strategies that we're beginning to see the green shoots from. In addition, certainly the industry was promotional in the fourth quarter, especially around holiday, as were we.

But the fact that we had positive AURs demonstrated that, our customer is willing to pay full price for items as well. I think it's a real balance of promotion that we think is appropriate for what was required in the quarter, as well as taking control of our destiny with our own strategies. As we saw our demand continue to be strong in the quarter, we did take the opportunity to get more aggressive on taking markdowns in areas that we were more challenged from an inventory perspective especially apparel and that is great outcome for us to end within 28% for the quarter.

I'd say, we mentioned this in the comments as well, that our overall approach to working with our brand partners, I think we've elevated this year and the really the keystone was our partner summit as we're taking a consumer led view and multi-year growth planning approach with all of our brand partners. It's important to note our relationship -- our partnership with Nike is strong. And I think that for sure the areas that we really align around our basketball, kids and sneaker culture, especially with the fact that we have a younger multicultural consumer that we bring to the party.

And so, a perfect example of how we're working together is the activation we just did with them over the All Star 2024 weekend in Indie and the launch of something called The Clinic, which is a Foot Locker, Nike, Jordan brand sponsored yearlong event that will have activations in communities, social media, as well as a piece of advertising that's running right now in the NBA with Kevin Durant and Jason Tatum.

So, we're very excited to work together with Nike to really elevate basketball culture, sneaker culture, and we expect to return to growth with Nike on an allocation basis later in this year, during the holiday quarter. The rest of the -- we'll see there's some uncertainty in the marketplace and we know that as we get into the year. And so we'll see how that goes. But we definitely see growth happening on the allocation basis later in the year, in the holiday quarter.

Digital is really all about conversion, which is at all-time high. And that's driven by improvements that our teams have been making on things that we can see direct effect. So, mobile cart navigation, urgency, indicator size filters, those types of tactics are really driving our conversion. And we know there's quantifiable scaled revenue impacts that we're seeing with improvements on our digital sites as well as investment in digital media.

So, I think we need to wrap up. Thank you for joining us today. I just want to sum up, we're evolving Foot Locker to be the global destination, go-to destination for discovering and buying all things sneakers. We could by continuing to execute on the Lace Up plan. We are confident we're on the path towards driving sustainable, profitable, long-term growth and shareholder value.

I just want to extend my gratitude to the entire Foot Locker team in a particular, our global striper community for what they do every day, working with excellence across our stores online, our distribution centers, and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.

Thank you.