Maria Pope
Portland General Electric Company (POR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Sure. Well, thank you very much ₤ eventually (Executives) Sure. Well, thank you very much. So first, one of the additions that you're seeing, pulled it out and separated it from what we had shown you in the past is our transmission investment plan. And that will continue to probably increase as we move forward as well. And then in regards to your questions on our equity offerings or where we're looking for the ATM.

The ATM will cover what we need for the foreseeable future, including the batteries. We are waiting to see where we end up with the RFP projects that could be coming in, and that could potentially require additional capital. We remain confident in our 5% to 7% growth rate. And you'll see that moving forward with confidence as we look to 2024, which is a really solid year for us given the outcome of our rate case, customer growth and the capital plan that we just discussed.

Yes. That's correct, Nick. Thanks.

Sure. Let me let Joe take that on. And one of the things I want to recognize is this was truly an extraordinary event not only for the restoration efforts with regards to customer outages, but region wise, the energy markets were really in significant disarray. Joe?

Sure. That's a great question. So on the longer term side, certainly, we have been semiconductor manufacturing center for decades. And about 15% of semiconductors are manufactured in our service territory, and we expect to see a lot of longer-term growth. The construction of those facilities is very extensive. Easier to construct and near-term growth is the AI-driven data centers, both in terms of some of the mega facilities as well as some of the grid edge computing.

So we're seeing no small shortage of demand from just about every hyperscaler and cloud computer company out there. And it's a really terrific amount of opportunity for us. Most of these companies want 100% clean energy. They frequently bring their own reliability back up and are interested in additional transmission substation infrastructure as well as others. So it allows for significant growth as we move forward. For our communities and the other customers we serve, this creates an overall strengthening of our reliability and resiliency as we invest in new infrastructure, and it provides important jobs for the region, property taxes and other significant benefits.

Sure. No, it's a great question. And first of all, this is our first clean energy plan. And I want to acknowledge and recognize that our integrated resource plan was acknowledged and we are moving forward under that IRP. There are questions really had to do around more granular admissions modeling. We have been doing day-by-day admissions modeling and they like to see hour-by-hour emissions modeling. Overall, as you'll also remember, our original IRP had -- was upsized in July quite significantly for additional energy needs as well as additional capacity needs. And I think there's more discussion among stakeholders and key constituents around how we're going to meet the additional needs with additional renewable energy and other infrastructure. So it's a good time to have healthy discussion around what is a really dynamic and rapidly growing environment here.

It came from a need most clearly for additional emissions modeling, Julien. But the back story here is that we're seeing pretty significant changes to the upside of energy usage and wanting to really understand the sources of the economics of all of those procurements. As we bring on renewable resources and Clearwater would be a good example, we're actually not seeing customer prices, react we're displacing higher purchase energy in the market. And so the additional renewables procurement is actually not driving customer prices as much as one would think as we model it forward. It's the overall need for investment and aging infrastructure and supporting significant customer growth that is driving customer prices as we move forward, more than clean energy development.

Sure. I mean we have to always keep customer prices first and foremost. There's no question that we have seen customer price pressures, and we are very attuned to the interest of our customers and keep making sure that affordability stays first and foremost. One of the reasons that we have competitive RFPs for renewable generation capacity and energy is to get the very best prices for customers in competitive processes. We have done well in those processes in the past, and we hope to continue to be able to deliver the lowest cost, least risk clean energy resources to customers that is marketdly available.

With regards to transmission, there is some flexibility. Some of these transmission spend was in our historic run rate. Some is new and incremental. We think of this sort of as concentric circles. The first circle being within our service territory really directly being impacted by customer growth. The second is to bring clean energy from our area or just adjacent to our areas to our customers. And then the third is broader investments across the Northwest.

One of the big increases as you look further out on the chart in 2028 is the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs project on our existing [indiscernible] line where we received a $250 million Department of Energy grant to significantly upsize that existing line, most of which will continue over existing rights of way. So if we look at transmission, we're focused on relatively easy to execute and my colleagues would probably question that transmission is ever easy to execute, but relatively lower risk projects within our service territory focused on repowering and increasing existing rights of lines.

Good morning, Gregg.

That recovery will be up to discretion with the commission. Normally, these storms are recovered over due to their magnitude and the significance over an extended period. The last time we had a storm recovery of this nature was recovered over 7 years. And what we will also -- to just -- I would say, we'll also look through the eligibility for either of these for securitization, which will obviously can change the recovery stream as well.

So our bidding strategy today, our bidding strategy going forward and our bidding strategy in the past has always been the same, and that is to have the most competitive projects for the least cost and least risk for customers. And those projects are winners, they're good for customers, and they're good for financing.

Sure. That's the -- an answer to Julien's question earlier, that's the Pelton [indiscernible] to 230 -- planned to be increased to 500 kV in partnership with the confederated tribes of the Warmer Springs. We previously announced a $250 million grant for that work from the Department of Energy. Obviously, that project would cost more than $250 million. It's over 100 miles long, and it would be a multiyear project, the first year we're anticipating in 2028.

Good morning, Travis.

So there were some payments that went from 2023 to 2024.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Well, I think we'll see both. Clearly, capacity is important as we -- in particular, with all of the volatile weather that we're seeing. So I think you'll see additional batteries coming through, through RFPs. And I think you'll also see more traditional renewables of wind and solar. There are also some pump storage projects and some other projects that are farther out that independent power producers have been working on. And so I think this is going to be what I call, all about a set of solutions as we move forward. We are also working very closely with customers on their energy usage and flexibility as well as standby generation to bring all of the resources to bear through this transition.

Thank you.

Great. Thank you very much. We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric. We are excited about 2024, our continued growth in high tech digital customers. Our capital plan to support that growth in renewable development as well as our continued focus on operating costs and operational excellence. We look forward to connecting with you soon, and thank you very much for joining us today.
