Michele Buck
The Hershey Company (HSY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Andrew.

Hey Andrew, let me talk a little bit about our pricing approach and strategy and then Steve will go into the numbers. It's a dynamic environment out there and we are taking a measured approach given historic inflation. As we can't talk about future pricing, but I do want to be very clear that there's no change to our pricing strategy and our commitment to use pricing to cover inflation and to support the investments that we think are critical to drive the business. So given where Cocoa prices are, we will be using every tool in our toolbox, including pricing as a way to manage the business. Steve, do you want to talk about some more of the specifics?

Yes, thanks Ken. As we are big believers and our business model relies on media as a key lever to continue to drive our brands over the long-term. We're constantly, we feel good about media going up in line with sales. We also constantly look to try and make those dollars work harder and harder for us. And we've made some pivots in terms of some of our targeting that are actually going to give us expanded reach levels that will be greater than sales. So the impact we will get from that media will be more than the dollar increase, but we will constantly evaluate that. And if we are seeing even better than we expected, we'll revisit decisions and decide if we should be spending more as we always do during the year.

Yes, I mean, I think what we saw this year was we did start to see some pressure in the category related to value. The fact that popcorn wasn't quite have as much satiety as some other snacks and we saw some private label entries also get some focus. So I think what needs to happen and then compounded by that, in the back half of the year, we are the number one or number two player depending on the time frame in the category. And in the back half of the year, around our ERP implementation, we pulled back on merchandising and advertising support to make sure that we didn't have issues with supply. So that certainly had an impact as well.

So as we've gone into this year, what we think needs to happen, we have done. So we have made some improvements in the value proposition, introduced a value side, a bigger pack. We've sharpened some of our merchandising price points and also increased merchandising. And we are back to a much heavier investment in advertising and innovation that we've had over time. So we think we'll continue to see some of that lap through the first five months of the year and then really rebound to nice growth and market share gains in the back half.

Morning.

Yes, sure. So I would say, a year to 18 months ago, we had started working on some initiatives that we thought could create some real opportunity and value for the company. And executing those was dependent on two things. It was dependent on us getting through the S4 implementation, which we will be through Q2 of this year. And it was also dependent on us doing the unification of our Salty Snacks business, taking those disparate acquisitions we had and combining them together, which obviously we did this past year and also put in place S4 across that platform, across that business unit. That then can become an accelerator for us to really go after what we saw as some opportunities, both in terms of creating greater end-to-end connectivity and also using technology for automation and efficiency.

So this is really where we expected that we would be. Certainly with some of the pressure on coca prices, we accelerated that work a bit versus our original timeline, but the work was planned and underway accordingly. And we're trying to be very choiceful about where are the choices that we are making across those initiatives, and certainly making sure that a lot of that implementation won't happen till post S4, till we get through the implementation. So really measuring out when we do what to match with the organizational capacity. Steve, anything you would add to that?

Good morning.

Yes, absolutely. I'd say there are two things that have really created some nice momentum on the business. One was we saw consumers have a huge affinity to the seasonal traditions. And we had very strong growth in the category in both Halloween and holiday. And we also won share. So that was certainly a key driver. And as you mentioned, we had talked about earlier this year, the opportunity for us in 2024 to really dial up innovation. We had a later year in 2023. Our innovation for 2024 is up about a third versus where it was in 2023. And we're really excited that we have some big innovations. Reese's Caramel, we believe will be a very nice addition. And that's doing well in Q4, continues to. We'll be featured on the Super Bowl. So you can look for that as well. And then we have some exciting sweets innovation later in the year.

Yes, so we are up about 35% higher in terms of innovation versus prior year. And we are up slightly versus pre-pandemic as well. I think we've chosen not to talk about innovation as a percent of net sales.

Thanks.

Good morning.

So I'll cover some of that and let Steve cover some of it. We've continued to invest in capacity in brands and businesses across the portfolio that have growth and opportunity ahead. Over the past couple of years, we've focused on Reese’s where we were short on capacity so that we could fulfill consumer demand.

And then the other big area of focus we had was on the gummy side of the business in suites. And the first part of this year, we complete and have capacity coming online for that business that we will be able to leverage to better participate in that segment in the back half of the year. Steve?

Okay. So I'll take the first question, first relative to market share. We expect to see sequential improvement as we go throughout the year. The first half will be pressured by a shorter Easter. Easter comes much earlier this year. And also we will have about five, roughly five months in the first half of lapping the reduced merchandising and distribution at that one key retailer. And we know from this past year, the impact of that was about two points in total. We offset about one point of that on a takeaway basis. So that will pressure share.

In the second half, we then are past those laps of the shorter Easter and the retail merch. And so we expect to see sequential improvement and to end the year in a much better place than where we're starting. As I think about our pricing strategy, I'd say what is consistent is our goal to cover inflation with price over time. Within that, how exactly we do that relative to smaller, shorter, more frequent, or bigger, the timing and the magnitude, to me are heavily influenced by other factors, such as where our input costs and general inflation are.

So I think, yes, that the overall, we have a strategy to expand growth margins to price to cover inflation and allow reinvestment. That hasn't changed, but how we go about doing that will be a bit different. We're also very much focused, price pack architecture is an opportunity, all the tools in the lever.

Yes. Okay, thank you so much.

Yes, we felt like we got really good learning through the Salty and this was our plan to do Mexico first, then Salty and then the mother ship. And we got really good learning that we've been able to just incorporate and fine tune along the way. We also don't have the complexity as quite as many different systems that we have to bring together with our business as we did with all of the acquisitions.

Yes, so we're expecting our elasticities to be similar to the historic levels. So that's our key assumption.

And we've really beefed up or are beefing up our capabilities in technology. We hired a CDTO in the fourth quarter who's really bringing us capability and further expanding what we can do as a company, we believe.

Yes, I mean, I'd say first of all, overall with the consumer, certainly I think there is some increase in consumer confidence. We've seen unemployment rates, employment be stable. However, we do continue to see some value-seeking behavior in some pockets of consumers. We believe that the behavior across confection has largely normalized and we think that we have some of the right steps in place to kind of offset that satiety issue that we've seen with popcorn in areas like adjusting value across different pack types, enhancing marketing communication in ways that, build the value proposition. So we do expect that we'll start to see some normalization in popcorn as we go through the year.

Yes, no problem. We continue to feel great about the salty snack business and their long-term potential. We've seen such tremendous growth over time. There's no change to our long-term outlook. Our long-term outlook and the algorithm has always been around mid-single-digit growth. We had never expected low double-digit on the long-term. We had expected originally that this year might be a bit stronger but not on a long-term basis. So no change to that long-term outlook.

Yes, it's really some of both. Certainly there's power to that visibility of all of these great brands together. Our salty brands now are two of our top ten brands. So they have the velocity that warrant being with some of our other really major brands. And then of course it does encourage some of that cross household purchase as well.

We still do have some distribution upside on Dot's. So I'd say more than several points of distribution upside still remain.

We always really do look across the entire bundle. And certainly, we have some trade spending increases in 2024. And so we look at what's the right bundle across DME, across marketing, consumer marketing and trade that we think will have the biggest impact and most efficiently on driving revenue. So it is some of balancing the total view of all of that spending together, which is a big area of focus for us. How do we make it all together work as hard as each individual piece.
