Nazzic Keene
Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Great. Thanks, Jason. So let me tackle your first one in a couple of ways. So obviously, all of us are closely watching what’s happening in Washington, the budget impacts. And certainly, we expect a CR this year and could be even a bit longer than we’ve seen in the past. So we continue to navigate that. The good news is we have experience and a lot of history in navigating a CR, and we work very closely with our customers to do exactly that. So on-contract growth will be a key component of our sales strategy this year, as it has been in the last couple of years, and we continue to see great success in being able to drive on-contract growth with our customers. It’s probably even more important this year as we help our customers ensure that they can deliver on their mission objectives in the event that there is an elongated CR, so working very closely on that particular part of our booking strategy and our sales strategy.

As it relates to bookings, in general, we don’t tend to give guidance in that arena, but we would continue to expect strong bookings, a good mix of recompetes as well as new business. And as Prabu mentioned in his prepared remarks, we have seen our recompete win rates get back to our more normalized very strong position, and we continue to see the opportunity to drive that. And then on the new business side, as we continue to focus on our GTA areas of opportunity and building our pipeline in that arena and booking business in those areas, we continue to see good traction there. So we don’t tend to provide guidance, but I’m comfortable going into the year with a portfolio, a pipeline that will support the growth targets that we’ve outlined. Prabu?

Yes, Matt, it’s Nazzic. Hi. So a couple of things, is there other aspects of the portfolio that we’re looking at from a divestiture? The short answer is no. We continue to run and operate a very agile strategy process inside of SAIC. So we’re always looking at how our current portfolio supports our long-term objectives, and we continue to do that on a regular basis. But as we sit here today, we don’t see anything that bubbles up. As it relates to that divestiture, I wanted to highlight a couple of things. We’re very proud of what that portfolio has contributed to SAIC over the many years since it was acquired into the SAIC portfolio. But as we sat here today and as we’ve been communicating with you, as we focus on the GTA part of our strategy, it became not core to our long-term strategy. And so we looked for the right time, at the right price, all the rights for an opportunity to divest it and very, very pleased with how the team has executed against that objective and very proud and pleased with where it’s going to end up inside of ASRC Federal, where I know they’ll have a great ability to drive their business, drive growth and be a great part of their long-term strategy.

So as we sit here today, we don’t see anything else that falls into that category. On the flip side of your question, do we see opportunities to acquire? We’re very well positioned at SAIC. We believe we’ve got the sale and the capacity to deliver and execute on the strategy that we’ve been communicating and the strategy in which will provide some longer-term financial guidance next week. But there could be opportunities for us to do some technology-based tuck-ins as we did with the Koverse acquisition. And so we continue to look at the opportunity space to accelerate our GTA strategy today. So that’s where I would see potential acquisition. Again, we are very choosy, very particular and very disciplined. But as I look forward, if there is an opportunity similar to what we did with Koverse where it accelerates the current part of our strategy, we would certainly take a hard look at that type of acquisition.

Well, certainly, the Vanguard is one that’s top of mind. It’s everybody in the industry knows about it, and it’s a significant part of our portfolio. So very pleased with our team’s focus as we continue to deliver to our critical customer, the Department of State there and very proud of their keeping the eye on the ball even through the procurement process that is taking place. So – but as we look forward, there is always some elements of recompete in the portfolio, and we keep a close eye on those. And we just – we’ve become, over the course of the last couple of years, much more disciplined, much more focused on ensuring that we’re delivering the right solutions customer at the right price to protect those recompetes that are so critical to our success. But due to competitive reasons, we prefer not to touch or talk about too many of those in a public forum.

Thank you.

Yes. Good morning.

Nazzic here. Yes, thanks for noticing that. One of the critical elements in our type of business, services business, is the caliber and the talent and what the people bring to the table. And so very proud of over the course of the last few years, we’ve been looking across the organization to do a few things, where it makes sense, bringing some new talent with aligned to our priorities, aligned to the growth priorities, the margin priorities and most importantly, our customer priorities. And in many cases, look for the opportunity to develop the talent that we have in efforts like rotations to get additional skills in the company. And so as you commented on those two portfolios, we’ve been able to accomplish many things exactly on those fronts. So we’ve got some great talent that has been able to do some rotation and build out their skill sets and become even more valuable leaders for SAIC. And we’ve had the opportunity to also bring in some talent from the outside that strengthen our team and make us a better company and also deliver stronger solutions to our customers. And so we take advantage of those opportunities when we can to ensure that we have the absolute best talent, the best leadership in the industry.

Sure. Thanks, Rob.

Good morning.

So this has been an area we’ve shared some of this over the course of the last many quarters. There is probably nothing that motivates the team more than losing. So we had some losses. Several quarters ago, you guys saw them, we felt them. And certainly, we try to take advantage of situations where we can do better. So I would say that a couple of losses really kind of accelerated some things that we were already doing. And of course, we’d love to win. This is a team that loves to win. So across the board, we have been doing some good sole searching on what we did well and what we didn’t do so well and have corrected those areas. We’ve talked about briefly, on my last question, the topic of talent, and we’ve been able to bring in some great new talent to strengthen our sales and business development teams. And we have been laser-focused on on-contract growth, helping our customers deliver on their missions. So I think those are certainly some highlights, but I will tell you this is something that gets my attention on a daily basis, Prabu’s attention in the entire ELT really looking at what are those must wins inside the company, ensuring that we’re dedicating the resources to those areas of the opportunity or those areas of the pipeline that we have to win. And as Prabu mentioned on the last question that he addressed is also being pretty focused and disciplined on what we pursue because there is so much opportunity. There is so many RFPs. There is so many opportunities for us to make a difference. But to those – to the extent that we can focus on our key accounts and the GTA areas and our core areas of focus, we’ve been a little bit more differentiated in how we focus our attention and our money.

So I would say there is many aspects that are going into that. It’s certainly not a one and done. We intend to strengthen our abilities in this area to continue to drive great success in our recompete win rates as well as our new business, recognizing that we’re not going to win everything. We’re not going to win every recompete. But to those that are must wins for us, we aspire and we put our money where our mouth is and our talent where our mouth is to ensure that we have the best solution for the customer. Prabu, anything you want to add to that?

A couple of comments there. So I would say on the turnover is obviously a part of that dynamic. We are seeing turnover return to much more closely aligned to the pre-pandemic levels. And so very, very pleased to see what was probably heightened issue for us as well as other companies over the course of the last couple of years get back to a more normalized environment. It is an area we can continue to focus on. We want to be best-in-class when it comes to turnover as well as hiring. On the hiring side, certainly, we – there is some headwinds in some areas. But I would say, over the last few months, it has gotten, again, what I would consider more normalized. And so there is pockets of the business. If you think about looking for special security clearances that tend to take us a little bit longer, as it does everybody in the industry. But in general, the hiring teams are hiring what we need to, especially as we’re looking to start up some of these new programs that’s top of mind for us. And we put, again, tremendous focus on that as well as trying to mitigate the turnover risk where it makes sense. There is pockets of the business that are more critical than others. So I appreciate the question. It is a dynamic we’re all watching, especially the services business, but very pleased with how we sit today.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Cai, Nazzic here. A couple of comments. Obviously, this is a very active procurement and it’s going through its cycle. As far as timing, I don’t know that I can predict when it’s all going to happen. There is – with such a big program going through a very different procurement cycle than obviously they had many years ago, I think there is a lot of moving pieces. It is true, we broke it up into multiple pieces. Obviously, SAIC will look to play a critical and important role in those aspects to procurement where we believe we can bring differentiated solutions. And – but probably not going to comment on exactly which ones that we are going to pursue or not pursue as well the reasons that I know you will appreciate. As it relates to profitability, I think that that’s something TBD. It’s not uncommon for re-competes to put some profitability headwinds when you do re-compete, and it’s certainly in the early days of execution. But again, we will look to areas where we can differentiate, we can set ourselves apart, we can bring solutions to bear that best support the customer and best support our objectives as well. So, that’s probably all I am going to say on Vanguard at this point. But again, I just want to reiterate and appreciate the team that’s delivering to this very critical mission because it’s easy to get – kind of get sidelines sometimes with all of the re-compete process that’s happening, but our team is laser-focused on delivering and very proud of them.

So, on those two, we appreciate you – I appreciate the comments. Very proud of how we sit today. But as Prabu mentioned, they are both still in their post-award process, but very pleased with our ability to get this far and very, very optimistic that we will clear the post-award process and have much more to share with you after that. I will say that both of these are positioned in our GTA areas of focus, so continues to really focus on that part of our strategy and complement and provide some proof points to that part of our strategy. And I think it’s – all I will say is I believe the team has brought forward a very competitive and compelling solution for our customers. As it relates to other things in our pipeline, we certainly do see opportunities to continue to create a position in the market in these areas that we choose to differentiate, and we look forward to sharing more of those types of wins with you in the quarters to come.

Good morning.

Yes. Tobey, Nazzic here. So, I would say the short answer is yes. So, if we think about the changes we have made, which is really to balance the incentive comp structure on the three components of the business that Prabu just highlighted, obviously, revenue growth, margin expansion and cash, we believe that all three of those are necessary for us to achieve our long-term strategy and to drive shareholder value creation. And when we drive shareholder value creation, we drive value for our employees, our senior leaders as well. So, we believe it’s the right mix. It’s the right balance. We don’t want to drive revenue at the expense of profit and cash, and we certainly don’t want to drive profit at the expense of the other two. So, I think it’s very balanced. Our team understands it, and it also helps drive decision-making inside the company. And I will highlight that, as you have heard from our – this year’s guidance and you will hear next week, we look to drive improvement in all three of those dimensions across the next several years. And so having that backdrop reminds all of us of what’s important to the company, what’s going to ultimately drive shareholder value. And I am very pleased with – it’s kind of a simple model, if you think about it, just the balance, but it does drive the right behavior, the right incentives, and we are seeing that. We are seeing that in the results that we are talking about today, and we are seeing it as we – as you will see next week, when we share our future guidance. Prabu, I know you did a lot of work to help us get to this point. So, anything you want to add?

So, space continues to be an important part of our portfolio. As we sit here today, we are certainly seeing some increased focus in the military aspect of space with – I think with kind of the global unrest that exists. So, we continue to see opportunities there, but really not at the expense of civil or intel. In many cases, they are interwoven and the learnings and the solutions that we deliver in one aspect can be replicated in the other. So, we look at it from a balance perspective, working, obviously, closely with our customers on where the budget is going to go, but very fortunate to have a position in all three of those domains. And again, we do leverage the talent, we leverage the solutions where we can to drive differentiation as the ecosystem and the RFPs and the world stage demands it.

Good morning.

Yes. So, I am thrilled that you have noticed and you have recognized the brand, so that makes me happy. But the short answer is yes. Louie, we have – we have been very pleased with how we have been able to integrate those solutions in some new bids. And as we get a little more public, at a couple of recent ones, maybe you will hear a little bit more about that. But also being able to bring the solutions to existing customers, in many cases, looking for the opportunity to strengthen the position that we have and of all the position that we have, so very pleased with that. They are differentiators for us in the market. So, if you think about Koverse and we talk about the GTA area of cloud migration, cloud management. And that’s an integral part of that and 10-gene obviously, is a key part of our strategy as well. So, we do have – this is part of our strategy, whether it’s – in most cases, it’s partnering with best-in-class commercial technologies that exist and being able to bring the SAIC to bear, being able to deploy it to domains and customers that we know. And that combination is very powerful. As you know, we don’t build a lot of our own solutions, but we can and we do, but we really rely on the integration of best-in-class technologies, and that’s what you are seeing here. So, thanks for recognizing. And that means a little bit of our work is going well, but we will make sure that we highlight when we can some of these key new wins and the linkage to these types of solutions.

Yes. So, great, we are very, very proud to be part of the Verizon team that won FENS And as I know you can appreciate it’s going through the normal process. So, I am not going to say a great deal about it until we kind of get the all clear and it goes through the process. But I will say that we are proud of what the team brought to bear. We are able to bring some differentiation and strengthen the overall team. But we are a sub. So, in general, several tends to be probably less on top line than a prime role, but we will play a critical role and integral role in the delivery to the FAA.

Sure. Thanks so much.