Sheryl Palmer
Taylor Morrison Home Corporation (TMHC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Yes, I appreciate the question Truman. I think you said it correctly over the years we've certainly been known as one of the more inquisitive. And as you know initially that was to make sure that we had the right with on our map and then kind of follow that up with making sure we have the scale in each of our markets. So when we look at the map today we feel really good about it.

Given our historic kind of activity we certainly have the opportunity to take a look at all the deals that come to the market. We're quite focused on the organic kind of growth that we laid out in our prepared remarks. We have the opportunity to look at deals that are coming into the marketplace. And honestly it would have to really provide some strategic benefit to the organization from a geographic or scale perspective, it would have to from a product perspective may also be accretive. Obviously, it has to work financially. So I'm not going to say that we would never do a deal but today we're really focused on achieving our growth organically. And if the right opportunity comes along we will take a look at it.

Yes you're exactly right. And as we've been talking about really with the last two M&As and honestly the shift, the settled pivot you've seen and our consumer groups, we are going to more and more affordable. So what you have in your backlog today Truman tends to be your resort lifestyle, Esplanade, which tend to be at a much higher ASP. But what we'll fill that in in the subsequent quarters is the spec production we have and our specs as we said, tend to be that first-time buyer as well as that first-time move-up. So you hate to point to mix. But in all honesty, that's exactly what it is.

Thank you.

Yes. I think it's all of the above Carl. Certainly, what we're seeing is a different level of efficiency in our communities in much higher paces. So we may see some market growth but obviously, we're having – we're also anticipating grabbing share. And one of the things Carl that I would say are really working in our favor today is the strength of the diversity of our portfolio. So when you look at our ability to offer both to-be-built spec homes that are relatively equal with a relatively equal balance, when you look at us serving one-third, one-third and one-third that first-time buyer, that first and second move-up and that resort lifestyle, it really gives us an advantage in each of the markets.

As you see some of the volatility that we've seen certainly over the last year, I don't think we have experienced the same level of volatility. If I think about the fourth quarter everyone – we saw a lot of movement in interest rates as you know. October was okay. November was pretty rough. December was our best December in the company's history. And I really credit the diversity of the portfolio that allows us to do that.

You want to take that?

And Erik, if you were to look back to 18 months ago when we did our first big deal on what land banking REITs are doing today, I mean I think there's easily a 300 basis points.

Thank you.

And I'd say the good news if you agree Curt is -- Elizabeth is, even though we saw that pricing opportunity in 60%, it was modest. And I think that's a much healthier place. And what we would hope to see as we move through 2024, is continued modest pricing opportunity as well as some continued reduction discounts. Now it's early in the year. So we're going to have to play that out. Obviously, we've seen the volatility that's hit the market. Certainly, yesterday, we saw it a couple of weeks ago with the single largest lift in interest rates that we've seen in the year. But all-in-all, we're in a much better place than we were a year ago. So we expect to continue to see some opportunity all other things being equal as we move into the year.

Yes. I think, we've been very fortunate, and we've gotten pretty good at this navigating this environment for -- it seems like nearly two years, and I think our tools have gotten better. And our appreciation of being able to personalize, I think, Curt spoke to this in his prepared remarks, being able to personalize each incentive to the specific buyers' needs.

We certainly are in a market that we can't kind of paint any community or any market with a single brush. So it allows us to serve the customer in the best way for them, and at the same time protect the margin, wherever -- however and wherever we can. It's interesting as incent as interest rates started kind of pulling back, and we saw last -- over the last few weeks, we saw rates drop as low as kind of the mid-6s.

I started to see in some markets kind of us going back, I mean, us being the industry to some of the old tablets and doing incentives off of options or lot premiums or discounting house where in fact we've stayed very, very focused on using finance as the best sales sold to give our consumers the best monthly rate. That allows us to pull back incentives one house at a time.

We are early in the year. We have seen some volatility. Once again, I think, the good news is if I look at what those forward commitments were costing many months ago versus where we are today, it's significantly better even with the blip that we've seen this week, I still would expect over time. Maybe not as quick as the market it assumes seeing side cuts in March or May. But I think over time we certainly expect additional stabilization, which will continue to bring incentives down.

Thank you.

We really aren't at this point going to give guidance -- specific guidance obviously for 2025. But what I would tell you is that we do expect to see community count. We talked about 10% closing growth each year thereafter. I would think you're going to see something in a very similar light on the community count without us getting too specific. And as we look at the land that's kind of in our pipeline today, I think you'll see that starting in early 2025 and building through the year.

I don't think there'd be one trend I'd point to Jay. I think it's actually kind of reverted to a more normal environment where you might have closeouts where you do have some added discounts, you might have new openings where you're coming in strong and then wanting to build kind of equity for the customers over time.

I'd say probably as a role, I'd say probably held serve without taking a deep dive into every one of those 40%, I would say that would be the average, but I would say you probably have some added incentives.

And certainly you might have a few communities where you're going to close out where you discounted the house. But I would say the average would probably be hold serve.

Yes, I'd say we saw that as a headwind actually in the back half of 2023 as I'm sure you know in 2022 we reduced commissions we reduced the base rate. We didn't put it on where we were seeing hobos we excluded that from co-bro commission. So, when the market kind of normalized I think the market went back to that kind of average 3%.

If I were to share some good news though, as I look at our reservations moving into 2024, for the first six weeks of this year, we've seen some really nice movement on co-broke trending down from the peak.

I would say generally over the last couple of years co-broke in our reservation and our reservations have been pretty consistent with the overall business and we've known the opportunity is really to build trust with that consumer before they ever get a broker or their house on the market. And we've finally started to see that. We'll hope it's sustainable. But all-in-all, when I look at the book of business outside of the reservations, my guess is we remain relatively consistent to the back half of 2023.

Yeah. So I would say every house has some discount. It's either closing cost assistance. It's -- it might be finance tools, it might be some promotion in the design center. And I'd say that's just normal course of business. Specifically if you're thinking about our forward commitments and the specific tools that we've -- our comers are enjoying in rate buy-downs for 2023, about 20% of our closings utilized some forward commitment.

The balance like I said would have used some assistance and closing costs. Maybe it was a specific finance incentive. But these tranches of forward commitments that was 20% for the year and a little bit higher in the fourth quarter when we saw the spike in rates. But as we talked about in our prepared remarks that generally leans heavily toward our first-time buyers where they really need more of that assistance to qualify from -- to qualify and get the monthly mortgage that they can enjoy.

Thank you.

Yeah. As I said we really have had a nice start to the year. December being a company, record January continuing strong right out the gate. And I think we've seen that traction continue through February. It was interesting to me a couple of weeks ago when we saw that real spike in rates that we came out of that with probably the strongest weekend we had seen in a long, long time.

Hard to look forward, but I would say all indicators that we've seen and as you mentioned when we look at traffic when I look at web traffic when I look at the number of reservations, I think January might only be beat by February when I look at the number of reservations in the first two weeks of the month.

All indicators are really strong. And I think what's happened is we've moved to a place where the volatility in interest rates, the builders have the tools in their toolbox to really be able to help the consumer. And there are not a lot of inventory in the resale market. There's not a lot of inventory in the new home market. And I think I don't want to say the fear of missing out I think that might be a -- I'm not trying to suggest we're going back to 21 days. But I think we're in a healthy stabilized market and the consumer has met us more than halfway in understanding that interest rates in the 5s and 6s are really, from a long-term perspective a very good thing and they're out and so forth.

I think the other thing, the last thing that I mention is, when I look at kind of the number of renters that we have in the US today and I look at every 50 bps of reduction in interest rate and what that does to open up the opportunity for renters to enjoy homeownership, I think they're sitting on the sidelines. So lots of I think, sprinkles of good news that we're seeing and everything that we see today would lead us to believe it's going to be a really nice healthy spring selling season.

Yes, it's an interesting point. There really is. Generally, I would say that -- as I've said a couple of times that our incentives are mostly used, consistently used with our first-time buyers. But when I look at markets like -- port like Seattle, I would say that's a market that very rarely uses kind of forward commitments.

I would say the same for Sacramento. I would say generally, when I look at the rest of our business with the first-timer, I would say there's an equal spread of using kind of those finance tools to help folks to the front door. And then obviously, when I look at our resort lifestyle business, which is certainly moving across the US, but predominantly today in Florida, we still see a very high penetration of cash. And so we're not using nearly the same incentives for that consumer that we would be using for our first-time in our first-time move-up.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yeah. You were going in and out Ken, during your question. Can you try it one more time.

Good morning.

And we'll continue to operate on under a 10B51. And so, its probably a little more consistency than you've seen historically to make sure that that gets out there, but no specific quarterly targets.

Thank you.

Thank you for the opportunity to share our 2023 results. We really look forward to being able to get into more detail with you on our Q1 on the April call and I wish you all the very bad. Have a great day.