Sumit Singh
Chewy, Inc. (CHWY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. On customers, the situation is quite similar actually. So, when you look at kind of the discretionary environment, it's essentially holding back on our side. It's impacting roughly kind of 300,000 to 400,000 active ads. I've kind of not sized that for you directly. I figured we'd come out kind of sized that for you so you get a sort of sense for how much of this is being held back. Our cohorts coming out of the pandemic have fully stabilized. So, we're not seeing any kind of further deterioration in cohort behavior. 2022 cohorts continue to settle out and we're continuing to see kind of low-single-digit higher cut churn from them just like we did from the pandemic cohorts.

Our reactivation rate remains impressively high actually. We've improved reactivations from a year-over-year point of view and we will add roughly 15% more reactivated customers this year than we did last year. So on the balance, I think we're sort of getting into the year with a little bit of wait and watch approach.

We are not expecting hard goods category or the discretionary to improve materially, so we're holding that into our forecast. And then as of right now, we're not expecting the Canadian business to contribute meaningfully in 2024 as the script sort of outlined.

In addition to that, I think two more points I would add is our, all of our premium businesses, whether it's premium consumables, premium health, supplements, et cetera, acquisition remains strong and customer participation remains strong as well as kind of participation into Autoship sign up rates are actually also pretty healthy.

So, hopefully that gives you some color on customer cohort analysis.

Sure.

Hey, Mark. This is Sumit. I'll take that one. So overall, coming out of last year, we fully ramped into search product. We have recently launched branded product and we are currently ramping up the on-site portion of the ad revenue.

We have the off-site portion of the ad revenue that starts ramping up towards the back half of this year. And so, what you'll see is essentially the ad load is split between, kind of, 70% on the on-site, 30% on the off-site. And the blended margin flow through is obviously pretty high that we're taking to the bottom line here, but more so on the on-site and less on the off-site. And then supplier participation rates are pretty healthy. ROAs are pretty healthy as well.

We're continuing to comp on an LTV basis, not on a per transaction basis, which is appreciated given kind of the power of the Autoship in the business itself or the recurring repeat revenue. So, as you would expect, we're leading with consumables followed by hard goods and health. We have to be a little more careful, making sure that we are completely respecting regulatory kind of constraints there per se. What else can I tell you about the ad business? Overall, we're pleased with the progress, response is all good.

Sure.

Yes. So the NSPAC side of the house will be continued to be driven by both the health as well as participation in Autoship. Those are the two primary drivers of NSPAC expansion that we see in 2024. And the, so those are the pluses. The minuses are obviously you don't get the pricing benefit in NSPAC that you saw last year.

So if you average out NSPAC benefit over the last four years, we essentially have 80% of the NSPAC growth that came since the time of the IPO in 2019. On the back of organic work that the team has done, right, improvement in Autoship, improvement in health, launch of pharmacy, growth in the supplements business, et cetera, et cetera.

And 20% or less has come from inflation. But if you look at last year, right, the weight on inflation was higher as NSPAC kind of grew. So, this year we're not expecting, this year as in ‘24, we're not expecting the impact of pricing or inflation in this. And so NSPAC is going to grow on the back of pure Autoship and health.

On the health side, if you look at cohort analysis, we're likely going to add north of 1 million customers to pharmacy and that is a direct expansion of NSPAC in addition to the usual subscription rate growth that we will drive towards in the Autoship business.

So, those two will be a combination. We just don't get any pricing benefit this year.

Thank you.

Yes. There's a lot in that question, hey, Steve, let me kind of unpack it. So, let's start with promotional environment. So, Q4 promotional environment was rational and in-line with our expectations. It was modestly higher than 2023, but we've been signaling that all the way through 2023. And so Q1 and Q2 hadn't picked up and Q4, we did see kind of the 30 basis points to 50 basis point incrementality and promotion pickup that we were forecasting throughout the year.

Obviously, we were able to absorb it given that we were planning for it. So, the silver lining here is that we've sort of returned to normality from a promotional standpoint in our opinion from a pre-pandemic post-pandemic world, right. Post-pandemic we sort of through the pandemic, we got this benefit of sort of float as a result of kind of either supply pullbacks or just general normal demand generation.

So, all of that is normalized. We don't expect promotional environment to remain more volatile or to become more volatile as we move through 2024. That's sort of the assumption that we're making in with. Generally, when you look at the industry so let me kind of shift to industry trends. So generally, when you look at the industry, if you take the $90 billion pet food and supplies category, over the past decade, unit growth has been driven by mostly supplies and treats.

So that's all discretionary. And pricing growth has been driven by premiumization trends, right. So when you put that in context in today's macro, it helps you understand why the industry is expecting kind of modest unit growth in ‘24 and limited pricing benefit given that we're coming out of the inflationary environment getting into ‘24 and there's no premiumization trends. That sort of continues, it's more of a mainstream kind of focus as we move towards the ‘24 year.

And then meanwhile, when you take the $20 billion remaining pet health merchandising category, right, we continue to remain kind of clear winners there and continue to expect to grow kind of both volume and translating into NSPAC expansion coupled with kind of the Autoship trends that we've talked about.

So, that's general industry. When you look at, when you kind of further pair that down into inputs and you look at adoption data, so pet adoptions were down 30% year-over-year coming out of Q4. Search for new pet and new pet interest was down 16% coming out of the year and that has further degraded by somewhere around 6% to 8% year-over-year rate.

So coming into the year, trends haven't picked up yet. And of course, there's a lot more here to play. We continue to be a little bit protected or insured given that 85% of the business is coming from consumables and health, both categories where we continue to gain share meaningfully so in health care and reasonably so in consumables with hard goods as the lagging category.

So that's how I would characterize it. Happy to take a follow-up if I left anything out.

Sure. I'll take the first one, this is Sumit. So, in terms of competitive intensity, it's not elevated from our point of view. Promotional intensity was obviously higher coming out of Q4. Ad intensity and ad competition remains high. If you look at CPCs, CPCs were up roughly 14% to 16% in Q4, but they were met with demand given that supplies had recovered in Q4 of this year. So, we were anticipating higher CPCs given kind of bidding intensity was higher coming into the holiday season. That has pared back some as we've come into Q1.

Some part of that is naturally expecting, some part of that is when you look at across the industry, we believe three, there's at least from what we can tell, there's kind of three companies that are taking share. Chewy is clearly gaining share in the market. Walmart and Amazon are the next two competitors. But each of the portfolio has kind of different strengths, in my opinion with someone like Chewy kind of being able to sort of span the entire gamut here.

So, what I mean by that is our performance I mean our performance continues to be supported by non-discretionary categories which make up 85% of our sales. And so, we excel in many pockets in that 85%. In the current environment, some of the other companies that I'm mentioning have been likely primarily winners in the discretionary categories where we are not winning.

So that, lower mix of hard goods is both a strengthen an opportunity to Chewy given that it shields us from the discretionary impact that you've seen, announced in some other places. And then, Walmart has unsurprisingly shined in the value segment amidst the current macro backdrop, including kind of outside successes that have been seen in areas like private label, where as we were candid in the Investor Day presentation, we do not have kind of like-for-like assortment, but it's part of our strategic plan to come out and provide strategic like-for-like assortment there.

So, if you kind of summarize it, what is important to I think note is we believe Chewy remains differentiated from both these players or the industry generally through our comprehensive offering that we provide to the pet parent, the type of relationships and the loyalties that we build, the [Quartz] (ph) subscription business and the strength of that ecosystem, the pet health ecosystem which is first party proprietary that extends both through product and services across our retail offerings, All of it positions us well to compete in 2024.

Alongside that, we've made several investments in future categories which are both topline growth and margin expanding categories. So, we feel bullish about our ability to compete through 2024 as well as accelerating pace as we come out of ‘24 into ‘25 and ‘26.

I would just add that when we started the year, we sort of carved out a bunch of growth initiatives that we were impact, that we'd sized for you. And as we move through the year, we increasingly found the ability to self-fund a lot of these initiatives ending the year strong.

And as you've seen us kind of provide guidance for 2024, we continue to invest in growth initiatives for the future and are self-funding a bunch of that alongside the EBITDA expansion that we're providing you.

Sure.

That is definitely one of them, but that's not the only one. I mean, we continue to pick up customers at a pretty healthy clip. All of the other categories that we're performing within continue to resonate loudly.

In pharmacy, I mentioned north of a million customers migrating over, which is obviously not showing up in the active customer file, but you show that in the NSPAC number and the amplifying revenue growth number.

And then, all of the newer innovations that we're looking at, whether it's introduction of new marketing channels that we might be experimenting with at any given point or launching of new verticals such as services, these are all customer acquisition, bolt acquisition and retention type verticals. So yes, there is the macro, but we're also focused on what is controllable on our side and making sure that no stone goes unturned per se.

Sure. Thank you.