Cary Grace
AMN Healthcare Services, Inc. (AMN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Trevor, thanks for the question. Let me give a little bit of context where clients are and a bit about how they're thinking about their workforce. And then I'll touch a bit on what we're seeing in supply in our different businesses.

First off and I think this has been widely documented, particularly over the past quarter. Workforce issues remain, if not the top priority for CEOs and C-suite of healthcare organizations. It's among the top priorities. And so we're seeing the focus on workforce manifest itself in kind of 2 ways. One is how do I continue to focus on expense management, that's an overall comment and workforce is a part of it. And then the second part of that is how do I ensure I have the right workforce to be able to serve what they see as increased demand utilization in the coming years. Once you get past those macro conditions, what we see from clients, it really varies client to client with what their mix looks like overall.

I'd say as a broad comment, you saw a tremendous reset in 2023, coming off of all-time highs of using contingent labor. And so a lot of the progress of stabilizing, you really saw it play through in 2023. There are a number of organizations over the past couple of weeks who have talked about being at or close to their target from a contingent standpoint. We also have some systems and some clients who still have some work to go. So I think that where clients are, are very client specific.

In terms of overall supply, if we look at, I'd say, Nurse and Allied and there might be some allied specialties where we do see more demand than you have supply but generally speaking, the focus is more on how do you think about increasing demand. If you get into our locums business, you have a lot of demand out there and we continue to think that will be the case in 2024. And so we're very focused on how we continue to increase our supply which the MSDR acquisition was a big part of that.

And then if you go into our TWS segment, you typically see VMS follows suit with our Nurse and Allied segment. And if you look at Language services, we continue to see demand, very healthy demand in that space. And so again, our focus is on how do we continue to have the supply to meet that healthy demand.

A.J., what I would add to that is what we're seeing as we have announced ShiftWise Flex in the market is that it's being very well received. And we've started the implementation with clients. We actually implemented our largest client this week. And so the ShiftWise Flex implementation is going well.

Yes. So typically, you would see that take a couple of quarters to start seeing the impact of it. So you should expect that those wins would affect more the back half of 2024. We have a lot of initiatives going on to continue to do process improvement around speed but expect that, that's more of a back half phenomena.

Yes. Let me give you first where we are on renewals. So if going into 2023, we had effectively 3 years of renewals that were taking place in 2023. So clients that normally would go through an RFP cycle in 2021 and 2022, during COVID, really pushed those into 2023. So if we typically have in any given year because clients typically have a 3- to 5-year RFP cycle, we would be defending, call it, 20% to about 1/3 of our book. Last year, in 2023, we were beyond the high end of that range because of the 3-year build-up. If you look into 2024, as we start the year on renewals, we are at the lower end of that range, including 2 RFP processes from last year that came in. So as we start this year, that looked very different than it did last year. So that's comment one on renewals.

If we look at from a growth standpoint on our sales pipeline, we have continued to see as we have restarted sales really in the second quarter of last year a continuation like-for-like of the build of our overall sales pipeline. And we've also seen that sales pipeline progress. We talked about the wins in my opening comments. So we're seeing progression both in continuing to build our sales pipeline and continuing to convert that down into wins.

Kevin, on your question about what would be typical for a large client in terms of how we serve this -- insert them. It really depends on where their starting point is and where they want to go. Our strategy is we want to be their preferred provider no matter what model they want. We ideally want our VMS technology in as the baseline because once they have our VMS technology in, they can go MSP, they can go do MSP, they can go vendor neutral, they can go direct without having to shift any technology. And so if a client starting from MSP and is on our VMS and going to vendor neutral, we still typically would both serve their technology needs and we would be a supplier. If a client starting from vendor neutral and going to MSP, we would take a more active role in supplying them. So it really depends on what their starting point and their ending point is.

Yes. What I would say, overall, it's hard to get industry benchmarks, particularly in any given quarter and especially because we have a different business mix because of the breadth of our solutions than others may have. I think what you saw is, given our focus on MSP clients during COVID -- during the COVID years on a relative basis, while we grew overall, we lost some relative positioning in the industry. And if you look at particularly as we left 2023 and go into 2024, as we positioned ourselves against the entire market again, MSPs, vendor-neutral, direct, we're getting momentum across the entire market that we didn't have for parts of COVID.

So number one and we can give more details around -- let me try philosophically and strategically give you a breakdown of how we're spending the CapEx. One is you should expect to continue to see us spend as a percentage of revenue on CapEx, maybe not quite as high as this year but directionally in that range. And if you look at where we spent the dollars in 2023, think about it roughly as about half of that was around how we continue to ensure that our solutions, including our client-facing solutions, our clinician-facing solutions, our innovative and supporting our clients in what they need to rebuild their workforces sustainably.

You saw big spend last year in ShiftWise Flex which we talked about. We've also talked quite a bit about Passport. And a lot of our efforts around our solutions, Tobey, were around us getting speed and agility. One of the things that has accelerated over the past 5 years is not just how you are matching supply and demand but the speed that you are matching that supply and demand. And so we have, both on a tech standpoint and from an operational standpoint, have huge milestones around our speed. That's important in all markets but it's particularly important in serving the direct and VMS market. The rest of the CapEx spend, think about it as Jeff mentioned, some of the big projects that we were doing around ERP and how we make our organization more efficient.

If you go back and look at what you typically see as you get demand kind of going up and going down, is that in lower demand environment, you would typically see internal capture in your MSPs go up. As you get higher demand environments, you would see that internal capture typically go down. And so if you go back into some of our internal capture rates in our MSPs during COVID, you saw that phenomenon where -- as you just got this big spike in demand, we were obviously filling for our clients. But we also had a number of other suppliers who took accelerated roles in that.

During 2023, if we look at Q4, year-over-year Q4, our internal fill rate for MSPs went up 450 basis points. So we have seen as demand has gone down, we've seen our internal capture go up. And we would expect that to continue in 2024. We're not expecting as we plan for 2024 for -- in the nurse space for there to be any really significant increase in demand, we do think that all the efforts that we are doing to position ourselves across the broader market, MSPs, VMS, direct, we will have more opportunities to fill in a bigger demand environment.

Yes. I mean, here's how I frame it up. If you look at where we started 2023 versus where we're starting 2024 in aggregate. And obviously, you can see it in our numbers and other's numbers, particularly on the nursing side. Clients made significant progress. And it was -- again, it was them getting contingent back into more normalized rate. And at the same time, you saw really aggressive permanent hiring. So that was really the story for 2023. If you go back, Mark and look at how you would categorize different clients, what we have typically seen is some of the larger and most complex clients is they moved really fast. You see some clients who have been -- were focused on 2023 but didn't move quite as fast. So I can't think of a client that didn't make progress in 2023, at least our clients.

And again, a number of them are at their target and we still have work to do. It would be hard to quantify because the other dimension is we focus a lot around the demand piece but this is the labor market. And there's a supply dimension as well and so there is still a significant portion, a healthy portion of nurses and doctors who want to work in a more flexible environment. And so it's how they balance this management of spend with also ensuring that they are getting access to 100% of the available market.

Yes. So it has gone very well and that took a lot of planning and preparation from our team. The couple of things that I would focus on, Mark, in terms of -- when we talk about the brand consolidation, there are several elements to it. So one is the obvious around the logo. That's where we get a lot of the all-time highs around awareness of our brands, both on an aided and unaided basis. But importantly, it's about -- we now have, between our Internet and other front doors, including increasingly our clinicians at Passport, one way for clinicians to come in and find all the opportunities professionally that they are potentially interested in. So we see it as an opportunity frankly, more from a revenue standpoint, for us to be able to engage clinicians much more holistically throughout the entirety of their professional careers with the range of different options that we have for them, whether some of those are shorter-term assignments or longer-term and permanent assignments.

Where you would see some efficiency from a spend standpoint is it will be more efficient for us going forward to be able to continue to increase and get brand awareness when we don't have to support 2 handfuls of brands but we're supporting in a more meaningful and substantive way the AMN Healthcare brand.

We continue to see and we expect locums to have continued strong demand in 2024. And that's really more of an industry phenomenon than just an AMN phenomenon. What we have seen is systems really looking at how are they going to meet the increases in utilization that they are experiencing. And so particularly, as you think about the very well-publicized constraints on physician shortages, it is a drag on revenue and ability to serve patients when you don't have the right physician support. And so that really is driving a lot of the demand that we're seeing in our portfolio.

Jeff, thanks for the question. And as we were writing the 2023 press release, I did reflect on -- I started AMN and 2023 also started at the very beginning of the single biggest historical cyclical reset in the industry. And so as I think about what we were doing, we were doing 2 things simultaneously. We were helping our customers, our team members, our company successfully navigate that unprecedented reset. And we very quickly also started to ensure that we were putting in place a series of transformational initiatives that were going to enable our company to be able to more fully participate against the entirety of our market opportunity, frankly, both as we went through the tail end of the reset but certainly as we came out of the reset.

If I go back and look at the things that we focused on and I'll underscore the things that I think we did extraordinarily well in a very tough year, we got focused on clients and our go-to-market strategy incredibly quickly. As I came into this role, that was actually the first thing I did. And we turned back on sales full force. We realigned how we think about our clients and we have a team now that is completely responsible for selling the breadth of our solutions. We started a series of One AMN transformation initiatives. We just talked about the brand, the brand experience, One but we also engaged in a series of transformative technology and operational initiatives that really, we're already starting to see make a very big difference in our business.

And then, we spent a lot of time ensuring that we had financial discipline that match the reset that we were going through. So we took early actions around expenses to make sure that we were coming down as the market was coming down. And we also made some very strategic capital investments, both in our systems but also in MSDR and growing parts of the market and bought back $425 million in shares. So I am very pleased with what we did both in getting through the reset and positioning ourselves more strongly for 2024 and 2025.

Thank you for listening to our earnings call and your continued interest in the important work our company is doing in the healthcare workforce. I want to say a special thank you to our AMN team members and our healthcare providers. 2023 required great resilience as we navigated both the biggest industry reset while working to position our organization strongly against our total market opportunity. We look forward to talking to you next quarter.