Cindy Baier
Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (BKD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And if I go to the longer term Ben, this is Cindy, I would just say that we were really, really pleased to finish 2023 with another quarter of incredibly solid operating results and financial growth. And we believe that we have built a very solid foundation that it paves the way for sustained growth. And so we're looking forward to welcoming new residents into our communities, extending the length of service for our associates and focusing on providing quality services, which will help us achieve our long-term objectives as quickly as possible.

And the one thing that I would just add is we definitely see that the labor market continues to be competitive and there are some challenges particularly in nurses and certain hourly positions like caregivers and CNAs, but there is definitely a stabilization in the labor market which has resulted in less labor market churn. And so when you think about that there will be more muted inflation in labor costs on a per employee per hour basis than we saw in prior years.

Thanks, Ben.

And let me just add to what Dawn said, by saying, I'm really pleased with the way that our pricing strategy has worked out for 2023. And if I look back for the whole year and you see that full year RevPAR was 11.4% that significantly outpaced our peers. So what that tells me is that we had the right balance for Brookdale of price and occupancy to get that outsized performance.

Joanne, I think you asked a question that's on many people's minds. What I would say is sitting in our shoes today I'm very excited about the optionality that lease expirations give us at Brookdale.

The way that I see it is, is no matter what happens with the lease, it's going to be good for our shareholders. If the assets are performing well then we can extend the lease and continue that.

If they're not, we can choose not to extend the lease and go forward or we may end up with a situation like we had with LTC, where we ultimately chose not to extend the lease. That was a 35% asset lease with LTC.

But ultimately we ended up releasing, 17 of those assets under a favorable lease which gave us CapEx support as well as favorable purchase options. So heads we win tails we win.

Let me start by just saying at Brookdale, the health and well-being of our residents has always been our top priority, and we are dedicated to providing high-quality care and services to residents and their families. As a company, we're honored to enrich the lives of hundreds of thousands of seniors over the last decade and our communities have been recognized as some of the best in the nation. As an example, in the US News and World Report Best Senior Living ratings for 2023, Brookdale has more senior living communities in assisted living and memory care communities, recognized than any other provider for the second year in a row.

Additionally, Brookdale tie is number one in customer satisfaction ranking in both 2020 and 2022, as recognized by J.D. Power for assisted living and memory care. It is true that Brookdale is one of several organizations that were contacted by the special committee on aging Senator Bob Casey and we have provided a response. We're an advocate for seniors and we're willing to partner with others to serve the best interest of residents and promote assisted living in the industry. We take great pride in serving our hundreds of thousands of residents at communities across the country over the last decade. At this point, it's too soon to tell what the outcome of the inquiry could be. But I'm very comfortable that our focus is and has always been providing quality care.

Thanks, Joanna.

Well, let me start by saying that -- and this is Cindy. Let me start by saying that we still have the recovery ahead of us. And so senior living communities operate most effectively at that 80-plus percent occupancy rate. So that is still ahead of us. But Dawn can address the 92% that she referenced in our prepared remarks.

So what I would say, Josh is our goal is to recover as quickly as possible. I think there are a number of factors that will impact the timing of our recovery. First, we're seeing incredibly strong supply and demand demographics with more seniors entering our target market this year than ever before. We're seeing a very muted supply environment, given the constraints of the pandemic on our industry as well as capital tightening.

And then, I would say that the Brookdale differentiation is continuing to grow. We're very excited about Brookdale HealthPlus. We're excited about the quality of care that we're providing. And so our goal is to serve as many seniors as we can, as quickly as we can. But it's too soon to comment on exactly how long that full recovery is going to take.

No, there is no incremental cost to a Brookdale resident or Brookdale HealthPlus. We priced it as part of the care charges in that particular community. And one of the things that's exciting about Brookdale HealthPlus is it is an innovative care model designed to close care gaps, and so when we put into a community, we completely change the operating protocols of that particular community, which has resulted in sort of 78% fewer urgent care visits, compared to similar residents living outside of Brookdale and 36% fewer hospitalization, compared to similar individuals living outside of Brookdale.

But what excites me most for the shareholders of Brookdale is that we have seen the HealthPlus community's profitability grows much faster than non-HealthPlus communities. And so, for our shareholders, we think there's going to be a strong return by supporting the health and well-being of our residents even more than we previously do.

Not necessarily. Our business case was built on the fact that, it would be an attractive value proposition for residents and that would, as you mentioned, help us increased length of stay. Now one of the things that is true is, because we've been rolling HealthPlus out over the last few years, we haven't gotten to a stabilized length of stay for those communities yet. And so that's one statistic that we're still watching. But we're encouraged by the residents that are choosing Brookdale as a result of Brookdale HealthPlus.

Thank you, Josh.