Denise Dignam
Chemours Co (CC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I understand your question. And so first of all, I want to just state that our Q1 has a lot of moving parts, and it's not indicative of the going-forward performance. So I just want us to keep that in perspective as we continue the conversation. I think there's different ways to think about your question. First, we do not have an attrition problem in the company. There are leaders at many levels of the organization. There is deep experience across the organization that leads day in and day out operations. But we do want to bring a level of stability with the leadership at the executive team. But I want to assure you that I have confidence with where we are. There's confidence in our customer base and there's confidence with our employees with the business leadership. The business leaders, we all understand that these businesses. We've had a long history in the businesses. And because of succession planning that have been done at the company, we've been able to backfill many of the key roles quickly, internally, and it actually -- it's resulted in stability in the organization.

Just as a quick anecdote, we run a poll survey in our TT organization with our transformation work. And over the last month, confidence has gone up -- I know it's hard for you to see this, but there's great stability in the organization. But we do want to have diversity of thinking on the executive team. And so part of our plan is to do comprehensive searches for the CFO position and for the TT President role. So those things are underway right now. And I just -- maybe I'll just add as well. I do believe -- we don't want turbulence, but I do believe change is good. And I think that there's going to be benefits that come out of these changes.

Absolutely. So as you know, I've spent the last year in the TT business. We have great customer relationships. We have strong assets, highly capable people, and the fundamentals of this business are solid. You know this is a cyclical business, and we're at a cyclical low. And when you get at the cycle low, things can get a little noisy. In Q1, we made some strategic decisions. We need some choices. One of those choices was that we decided to pull up a planned maintenance activity from Q2 to Q1. This was of a piece of equipment. This is something that we change. We have a change out every year to 2 years. And we were seeing equipment wearing faster and we wanted to be ready when the market came back.

So we made the decision to pull that into the first quarter. Even though we were -- we had some low finished product inventory. It was a choice. And I think it was the right choice for the business. We're seeing the second quarter coming in stronger. Our order velocity is improving. And right now, we're looking at a 15% increase in volume going into Q2. And I just want to make sure -- I talked about the cost transformation in TT. We are well positioned. And with the work that we've done there, it gives us enormous flexibility to go after the volume we want when we want.

I look forward to working with you as well. So looking at APM, the hydrogen comments, you're spot on. It's related to electrolyzers. And maybe a bit of color there as well is that the supply chain isn't full there. So when that funding happens, we fully expect that the orders are going to follow accordingly.

Relative to how big the size of the business, I don't really want to say how big the size of the business is. But what I will say is we have a double-digit growth, and we are sold out for the year.

I'm just going to say that I said in my talk, I'd like to speak simple language. I don't really like the branding because I think it's confusing the TVS, it really is a pricing and contract strategy and it's core to our strategy. We feel really good about that work. It is something that we're going to continue. But it's not -- that in of itself is not a strategy. It's part of the strategy. We also have to continue our work on we're -- our supply reliability and quality is second to none. Our commercial relationships are critically important as another part of the strategy. And then the TT transformation is also a key to our strategy as well. We want to be ready to have the lowest cost -- the weekend, as I said earlier, we want to be ready to do what we need to do. And to do that, we need to stay lowest cost.

Yes. I mean for Q1, you're correct that with the decline quarter or year-over-year. But first, I just want to say, the Opteon transition is happening. It's just that with this sell-through transition date being delayed a year. It's not -- I maybe say it wasn't -- it's not as robust as it would have been. The other piece of it, though, is that if you look year-on-year on auto builds, IHS is predicting a 2% decline and that's what we're seeing. So that's really a market phenomenon that's happening relative to the OEM demand.

And you're correct. I mean what we're seeing is excess HFC inventories depending on what happens, if there's a hot spring, we get an extra turn of inventory that certainly will have a positive impact on the quarter. If you think about -- I'm not going to give guidance for the full year, I guess what I'll say is our long-term growth expectations are unchanged for TSS. Huge confidence in this business. We are investing for growth this year as we have been, but we're -- especially, we're adding a 40% expansion to Corpus Christi, and we're also investing in R&D in our next-generation refrigeration as well as our immersion cooling. So really good growth prospects for continued growth prospects for TSS.

So I just want to reemphasize, our longer-term growth expectations are unchanged. One way to think about this is that we have -- we're out of capacity for Opteon, and we're investing in 40% increasing capacity, which will start to come online in 2025. In the meantime, I mean we source non-Corpus product. And so it comes at a lower -- a bit of a lower margin.

Our Corpus Christi facility is absolutely state-of-the-art and proprietary technology for low cost. So any time we're not using the Corpus Christi material. We have a little bit of a hit on margin through our JV. The other way to think about the year is that we are investing -- we're investing more in R&D because we see the potential in this business.

Maybe I just want to put a point on where Matt ended first, in that when we think about where we are in the cycle, TT is at a cyclical low. As that business rebounds with the market recovery, there's a huge cash generation capability in TT. Going to how we're performing versus peers, I really don't want to get into what peers are predicting and what we're predicting. What I'm going to say is I have super confidence in our commercial strategy and the decisions that we made. As I said, we made decisions in the first quarter that were really for longer-term strategic reasons for the year so that we are going to be ready for the rebound.

rom a strategic standpoint, I just want to be really simple about it. There's two new priorities. First is we have to reduce cost. We have to get cost out. We are well on our way in TT. We're working on the next phase in APM, and we're looking at our overall cost structure at a corporate level. That's number one. Number two, we're going to invest in these major attractive growth opportunities we have in the company.

So they're really the two priorities. I would say there's also a priority on we're going to execute. We're going to be business led. And I don't know if you'd say that's a difference, but that's how we're going to behave.

Maybe I'll just answer the more straightforward one. That $30 million is the cost estimate for the internal investigation in the first quarter. So that's how I think about it. The onetime cost. As you -- again, I don't want to comment on what our competitors are projecting. I'll just tell you how we're thinking about things. And I mentioned we made decisions in the first quarter around volume that will set us up for the year.

Our transformation plan is to be -- we want to be the lowest cost producer, so that we have the opportunity to play where we want to play. So when you get into the bottom of the cycle, as we said, it's noisy. And you may choose -- if you look especially say, at our flex and distribution channels, there are channels, commercial channels for a reason because we want to be able to play -- have some level of flexibility whether you're in the downside of the cycle or the upside of the cycle. And we're still keeping with our strategy around our contracts, the percent that we're targeting for our contract customers. And as I said earlier, we are seeing a bump in volumes going into the second quarter of the order of about 15%.

Yes, the way you can think about that is just ratable through the year.

Yes the way of looking at it now is that we're restocking. We're restocking the supply chain. It's very hard to predict exactly when we know the recovery is going to happen. It's hard to predict when. One of -- you can think about one of the key indicators is going to be about interest rate -- around interest rate changes, that might happen around the world and in particular, in the U.S.. That's going to be -- the TT business is very dependent on consumer demand, consumer buying. And so that's going to be, I would say, a key indicator for ramp-up.

It's true. We see in the numbers, the exports of -- the China exports are increasing. One of the things to note is the weakness of the domestic market. And I think that gives customers pause, relative to long-term reliability, stability of supply. That is still a very, very key value proposition is the trust and confidence of customers that you're going to be able to service them day in, day out, reliably with high quality.

The other aspect that you have to consider in mature product lines such as titanium dioxide is that you need to be able to compete in all market scenarios. And that really part of the TT transformation plan is continuing to drive to a lower cost -- being the lowest-cost producer.

Yes. Specifically, I was talking about volume. So volume increased first quarter to second quarter on the order of 15%.

First of all, as far as the buckets and it might get a little bit at the second part of your question. To talk about the buckets for the transformation. One obvious big one was the shutdown of the Kuan Yin facility because it really was a high-cost plan, and it really was not -- it's not something that was adding value to the business. When you think about what are all the other bucket. So we did do an organization redesign. And we looked at what is our strategic intent and where do we need to have resources. And we have -- so there was a little leaning out of the organization. But when you go beyond that, there's -- it's really about productivity and efficiency, which actually drives huge confidence in people.

So one big area that we focused on was in mining. So we have these mines, we bought these mines. And we were not getting what we should be getting out of those mines. Actually, we added some cost to get ultimately lower cost. We added more very focused leadership over mining and brought it more into the center of the TT strategy. And we are -- from 2022 to now, we've increased the volume out of those mines by over 70%. And we're still working on more. And it's really -- the other things that we've done is just -- and I really do think it's in our roots, we're technology people. We're scientists. We're engineers, and it's really getting back to process technology.
How do you have better yields? How do you reduce energy cost? They are the kind of things where you want to be really crisp. So to me, that brings a lot of energy to the team because they're just performing really well. This would not be successful if it was burning the furniture. This has to be strategic and it has to be bottom -- it has to be led throughout the whole organization. The frontline folks are critically important to the success of the TT transformation plan. And it's why we run a very, very comprehensive change management program.

We send out surveys every two weeks, quick surveys to have people tell us how they're feeling. Do they have the capability? Do they have the capacity. So I am super confident in where we are and that this is going to only make us stronger.

I would say the North America market has started off slow in the first quarter, but we're seeing going into the second quarter improvement in all regions.
