Heather Lavallee
Voya Financial, Inc. (VOYA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, John. Good morning, it's Heather. I'll start. So what's driving the increase in some of our strategic spend is a couple of different things. And I'll give the reminder that we continue to be focused on being disciplined at expense management. But we're really focused in on a few key areas. First, within our Asset Management business, is making investments in technology to be able to support our client growth as we grow our private and alternative franchise as well as international distribution and expand our client base. Second, in Health, you've heard us talk about the record growth and the start to the year and record results. We have invested in growing our distribution teams and our underwriting team to support our Stop Loss mid-market expansion which has shown up in our one-one results in terms of the very, very strong sales growth as well as within our Wealth business, we have strategically made investments to build-out our mid-market sales and client-facing teams to drive revenue growth and improved retention, as well as making investments in our field phone-based advisers, as well as our managed account team to be able to drive deeper integration and all of those are really focused on driving the revenue growth. To your comment about Voya India. We continue to remain focused on leveraging Voya India to help us innovate, but also to focus in on delivering on the strong margins we have across our business and that will continue to be a focus is how do we simplify our IT environment and footprint, continue to find ways that we can drive efficiencies across our business.

And Tom, it's Heather. If I can just add maybe one other point. I think it's important to do as Rob kind of concluded with a broader step-back on Health, is that we have continued to drive and outpaced organic growth in this business while managing loss ratios very effectively. Rob and his team have a tremendous track record of doing that and we've got the confidence that we'll be able to do that going forward as proven by the one-one start we already have to the year. So we feel very, very good about the continued growth and ability to manage the loss ratio in Health.

Yeah. I think to me also, to the broader step back on the Wealth business, you've heard us talk about for a number of years of the diversification of the markets that we serve, from mega clients down to micro. There are different growth trends that we've been able to capitalize in over time. And that really emerges in not only the steady revenue growth but the strong margins, the high free cash flow of the business. And if you look at just last week's job report, one of the highest growth sectors was in government and we happen to be the number one provider in the government market segment. And that will shift from time to time, but we feel like we've got an at-scale retirement franchise that is going to continue to be able to drive some steady growth for us across -- and across all different segments, not just tax exempt, but corporate market as well.

To summarize a few key messages. We remain focused on executing our plan, profitably growing each capital-light business, and delivering an outstanding experience for our customers. Our commercial strengths continue to grow, supported by our robust pipelines across Workplace Solutions and Investment Management. We are confident in achieving our EPS growth and cash flow generation targets in 2024 and beyond. Thank you and we look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.