Judy McReynolds
ArcBest Corporation (ARCB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Seth, do you want to talk about the weather impact?

The other thing I'll mention, Jordan, is that we did put in some cost controls, really back in, say, the August timeframe that have carried forward into the first quarter as well. So, we have the union contract increase. I think that was, I mean, that was there in the fourth quarter, it will be there in the first quarter.

Another item is just that the union incentive will apply in all of 2024. So, that's a factor. But we have put in cost controls. And then, if you take a look at the fourth quarter, you'll know, pretty good decreases in cartage and purchase transportation and rented equipment, all of that is still in place. And so that's a relatively consistent comment, I guess, to the fourth quarter. There's a lot going on here, including the weather that Seth mentioned earlier. We're looking forward to having the month of February hopefully with maybe fewer storms or something to be able to look at. But I'm really pleased with the strength of our core business, The opportunities that we're seeing in terms of bids and our win rate and that's helpful as we think about the rest of 2024.

Ravi, I think that, what we're doing specifically is just relative to a very purposeful plan that we had in place, I think in our presentation that we put out there today, there's a facility plan outline there of how the doors that we have in the network have increased since 2021, I think it's on page 10 of that. And so that could be instructive for you. But it is interesting all that's happened because we were embarking on a facility plan to really make more efficient some of the facilities that we have improved, some of the existing facilities and then also to add facilities in areas where we knew that we had great opportunities for growth.

So it's very purposeful as we think through it. So when we were looking at the auction properties that were available and considering what we would bid and then I guess you can see what we ultimately won. All of that fit together pretty well. And the other thing was, I was really proud of our team for how informed we were about the values that should be paid.

And as we looked at those, we knew that we would really gain some benefit from them. And so I see what we've done is really an efficiency gain as well as a growth opportunity and that's really a win, win for us over the longer term. I feel like that there's a lot going on with other competitors. I'll just let Christopher comment about from a pricing standpoint, I think that's the ultimate concern, what your view of that is.

Well, I mean, Ken, I think there's a lot to consider when you do that. And so our preference is to not do that, but it's not because we're shy about it. I mean our service levels are good and customers value them. But there are lots of comparison issues when you look across and we're fully aware of those. Especially because we have our managed offering and we do business with a lot of the carriers that are competitors or regional carriers and we see those differences. But on the cargo claims side, we've been best-in-class for a long time as that 10 time winning award indicates.

And then you might get in the detail of your, of the what we bought. The locations we bought.

Well, Scott, it's certainly lower. I mean, we use transactional, to fill in the gaps that we need. And I think what's changed from last year is an emphasis on wanting to make sure that we have. We serve, core customers well, but we also have capacity to serve them well. Last year, when you think back about where we were in a period where it was very important to us to have consistency in our network. We had brought on a lot of people. It had been a very challenging hiring environment. As we got in to later first quarter into second quarter. We were working to get our labor deal done.

And so it was really important to us to keep the network working, keeping our people working and staying in a consistent place. And as we entered the latter part of the second quarter and into the third quarter. We started to hear the noise about the Yellow situation. Customers were reaching out to us. We started to see a lot of opportunity there, but we were also in early July wrapping up our labor deal. And so we saw an opportunity to really emphasized the core business opportunities that we were seeing.

We also saw an opportunity to really right size the network from a resource standpoint to put the most effective resources on them. We wanted to emphasize the use of our people rather than to third party resources. And that equation has proven to be improvement in growth opportunity of the core customers, but also profitability improvement. And that's where we are as we enter 2024 as well. What we want to do is be sure that we stay in that place where we're optimizing growth, profitability and the use of our own labor and resources. And it does create some odd comparisons. I would tell you this too, the January weather also plays a role in some of those statistics. In the latter part of January, we saw much stronger you know, trends in terms of our core customers.

So we really think there's a lot at play there. But sometimes when you're giving good update like we do in our 8-Ks that 1 month is just not as instructive as you'd like for it to be for the rest of what you're doing. And so just hope that you can take all of that into consideration as you're looking at it and how that affects what you're doing and thinking in your modeling.

I feel like it's in a pretty good place. We feel, we have access to a lot of transactional business. So we have the access to it, if that's what we'd like to do. But we do see that it's at a more optimal level than certainly it was last year. But we are constantly evaluating that, Scott. I mean, we do it every day. We look at the opportunity set that's there. We look at the lanes that we're running in, how that one more shipment could affect it. And so it's very, very analytically driven, let's just say. And so, but I feel like it's probably in a more optimal place today than it was in last January for the environment that we have today. Last year, we had some different objectives that we were working toward and, I outlined those already.

Yes. Go ahead, Dennis.

What we see whenever we look at the market opportunities and our presence in some of those markets, which is relatively small. We really feel like that the asset light solutions that we have, Stephen mentioned truckload and manage, I would add expedite to that. We'll continue to, the growth there will continue to outpace the asset base growth, but that's just a level of maturity in those markets that we have. I mean, we have a national network. We're mature on the asset base side.

Customers still really are compelled by the service offering that we have there, but just the math would take you to a place where over time the Asset Light could be a better part or a greater percentage, I guess, of the total that we have. And what I see about that is that would be a good thing, particularly, we talked a little bit about managed.

That just gives us the closest relationship with the customer. It allows us to help them optimize their supply chain, allows us to enact the capacity that we have a relationship with, whether it's truckload or LTL carriers or it's business that runs in our own network. And I'm really excited about the growth potential there as well. What we see is a great opportunity for growth with the Asset Light solution.

The other thing that we've done is we've hired some of the Yellow drivers. And so that helps us with the resource and line haul that added to our road board. And that's been beneficial as well and should continue to be beneficial as we go forward.

Stephanie, it is interesting. I mean, we were talking about this as we were gathering for the call about crystal ball that we need to have for 2024, it's really kind of interesting when you sit back and you think about the length of time that the manufacturing sector has been in recessionary category. I mean, it's almost going on two years and that's pretty unusual.

You've also seen the impact of this, I guess the top-line reduction for truckload in particular and ground expedite, The fact that there's not really been a spot market to speak of, some of those things are just really unusual. And we've asked ourselves a lot about what we're looking for. And I think, the truckload team in particular has said that they feel like we're at the bottom, but it seems like we're there for a long time. And we're just waiting for the most part for capacity to exit and there are some signs that we've seen capacity beginning to exit, although, not at the pace that we would all like to see.

But we look at these things over the long-term and again, I think we discussed a little bit ago just the importance of having the solution set that we have whenever we go to have a discussion with a customer that's really going to be responsive to their needs. And the only other thing I would add is this Yellow event has really helped the LTL market to have some good opportunities for core business. We have to be careful with those, because we want to be sure that it's business that works well for our customer, but also works well for us and in our network. And some of that takes time. I think we mentioned some stats about bids and winning bids and that sort of thing.

We're encouraged by those and they're running all of that's kind of running counter to what's going on in the macro. And that's a really good thing. But we're pleased with how we're positioned and we do see that our strategic positioning is such that we can be in those conversations even if the LTL network is not the ultimate decision that the customer makes. And I really like that. It's like our company is set up well for what's happening as far as the Yellow event and where that business ultimately lands.

But I'll stop there and I'm not going to give you a prediction because I don't really have one. But we are positioned well sort of regardless of what's going on in the macro, because of what we put together as an approach.

Well, whenever I think through that just real quickly about 15% of our business is retail. Now not a 100% of that would be e-commerce, but a large percentage of it would. I can think of examples that really don't have an online presence that we do business with and we do that well. But so it ends up being I want to say 11% or 12% of our shipments whenever I think about last mile. And then again, the 15% retail, I think that gives you some perspective on that.

Well, it's really right now as it stands, it's creating a new revenue opportunity is what we'll ultimately gain from that. But at this point, we've got really more than one thing going on. But in the May, it's the box system. There's a box freight system that involves hardware and software and is focused on the rapid pace of loading, unloading and transferring freight takes it from hours to minutes coming out of the trailer. And then we also have the software applications that go along with that.

In the next few weeks, we're going to be introducing more offerings that are coming from that. And the pilot work that we're doing is with the Fortune 500 companies in automotive, manufacturing and retail. And some pretty exciting pilot opportunities that we're working toward. But there's it's amazing how we are experiencing the different applications of both the hardware and the software and the combinations with some of this pilot work. And so, what we find is that the shippers or customers that are managing warehouses are trying to do is access labor. They need workflows that are more efficient and they also are interested in safety and reducing claims damage.

And those are all the things that are the focus of this technology, both software and hardware that we're advancing. And so, these are what you're seeing are the costs associated with that. And obviously, we're looking forward to the revenue stream that can come from that. And there's going to be more that unfolds in the next few weeks, but also as we get further into 2024 there.

Yes. I mean, I think once operationalized, yes, Scott, you would. I think the reason that we're handling it the way that we are right now is that this is pilot work that we're doing or advanced work that we're doing to get into the pilots. But it doesn't, I totally agree with you, once it becomes operationalized so to speak then it would be.