Kim Ryan
Hillenbrand, Inc. (HI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Dan.

Daniel Moore

Okay, I'll let Bob take the second part of your question. But relative to the integration, we are 2.5 months in, I think we are even more excited about what we found here. I mean, we've looked at this, we've looked at FPM for a long time. We were excited about the opportunities that we thought we saw there. I think as we bring these teams together, we see even more opportunity than we did during the due diligence. And I think we see a tremendous opportunity for us to leverage what we learned during the integrations of Coperion and then Milacron and the scalable foundation that we've built over the last couple of years to be able to move quickly in creating value for not only FPM, but obviously also Linxis and Peerless as we bring them into the portfolio as well.

They were already underway on the integration, so we've really been folding FPM into an in-flight integration. But I'm really, really excited about the way these teams are coming together. We've been able to launch some regional integration meetings. We've been able to bring these teams together to begin talking about not just cost opportunities, but commercial opportunities, to begin thinking about how we can mesh these cultures and identify future ways for these teams together. I think we've even seen ways where we can bring, rather than just Coperion, we can even bring other parts of APS, specifically Rotex, into the equation to be a part of these solutions as well.

So we are, I think, I speak for the entire team to say we are really thrilled with the talent, the capabilities, and the energy and engagement that we've seen from these teams as we bring them together. Now I'll let Bob take your question about the what's built into ‘24.

I would say on the commercial side is what I assume you're referring to, Dan, on the offensive side when you ask your question. But I would say that the teams are already coming together. In fact, they were running out in front of even our integration work streams in wanting to collaborate on certain opportunities that they saw. I think we've announced a couple of opportunities that we were able to take advantage of between Linxis and Coperion that neither company would have been able to achieve on its own. We are seeing similar opportunity on the FPM side by bringing in other parts of the portfolio, whether it's parts of the Linxis Group, the Legacy Coperion, or even Rotex that they're bringing into solutions that they're offering to customers. And we're already beginning to bring those things together and start presenting those to customer opportunities, so more to come on that.

Yes, so what we're hearing from customers is just a slowness in decision making on their side, whether it's, I mean, there's a variety of factors that are entering into that, whether it's interest rates or just general concern about resources. There are just a whole variety. There's not one silver bullet that I could point to that -- yes that will solve the issue. What I will say is that historically when we've seen any kind of downturn, what you start seeing is [courts] (ph) drying up, you start seeing test labs drying up, you start seeing our short cycle business, specifically parts of service drying up. We're not seeing any of those things. The test labs are full. The court pipelines are still very active in all regions, candidly. We're also seeing our service business, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, our service business hit record quarters both on the MTS side and the APS side. So there is nothing that were the typical canaries of hey, we're heading into a slow period that would indicate that we're seeing a repeat of that here.

The other thing that I would say though is relative to backlog, and I think I've mentioned this several times on calls, there is a level of backlog that becomes pretty unruly to manage, and we were certainly there, the number of touches you have to have, the number of -- the amount of work it takes to manage a very large backlog, and I had indicated previously that backlog is this is a more manageable level for us here and so we'll -- we will expect as lead times come down with a better supply chain you will expect to see some fluctuations in that backlog, while still seeing healthy performance in the business on revenue.

Thanks.

Yes, I think relative to the demand environment, I mean, I think the divergence between our injection molding and our hot runner businesses are really kind of the geographic footprint, and that is that the injection molding business really does not have a major footprint in China. Their footprint it is in India. That has continued to be stable. In most markets, there is some weakness obviously in automotive or things like that, that everyone is seeing. But we do expect those things to kind of work their way out.

I would say that the hot runner business has really seen softness in China. And while it has been sequentially slightly better, it has not returned to former levels. And we continue to -- but we do continue to see a pretty robust pipeline there and are hoping that we'll continue to see some continued recovery in China while also seeing some expanded demand in India in future periods for the hot runner business. Hopefully, that gives you some color on kind of where we're seeing the differences.

North America. North America was just generally whether you look across any of the end markets, North America saw some weakness in kind of the current status. We expect over the next 12 months, while we expect some continued weakness in certain end markets, we expect stability to start to return in other end markets and more so globally in those markets as well. So I'm going to turn it over to Bob then relative to your question.

Great. And the last one I'd make is just the Hillenbrand operating model. These are the times when that skill set in that muscle is at its most important level. And dedicated resources in all of these facilities, whether it's on the APS side of the equation or MTS, there are dedicated resources that are working on productivity initiatives and driving those as quickly as we can and creating that kind of a maximum amount of flexibility as we continue to see some pressure in different areas of the organization. Those productivity initiatives are particularly important to making sure that we can respond to up and down volumes.

So relative to the recycling, so -- we've got a steady pipeline of recycling initiatives in the pipeline. And what we would tell you is that the capabilities that we are bringing together with Herbold and Coperion are going to be really critically important to being able to have a systems approach to some of these opportunities, whether it's for smaller recyclers or large recycling initiatives with larger customers. We do participate in all types of recycling, mechanical, chemical, solvent based recycling. And so we have projects underway in all of those areas, and we have luminary sites where we've initiated that -- where we've initiated those jobs all over the world and are excited about the opportunity that, that brings.

We do expect to see strong growth in certain parts of the world. We had -- when we initially started looking at recycling, I think everybody kind of thought, okay, Europe, so that's the only place that we're recycling is really going to take on a lot of interest. But what we are really seeing is there is an increased level of interest in the U.S., rather North America. There is an increased level in the Middle East and in India, and we are seeing strong growth in investments in those markets over the coming year. And people really are looking for full solutions. There's not a ready now set of people, who know how to put these systems and capabilities together. It's not a -- this is a new and emerging. And so -- the fact that we have put many of these together is a real step up for us in terms of what value we can bring to customers by offering full system solutions.

Good morning, John.

I mean, obviously, we've got certain jobs that we were anticipating we're going to close in Q4. The decisions would be made in Q4 where those decisions were not executed and in fact, have pushed out into Q1 or Q2 of fiscal ‘24 for us. So I would -- I mean, I would have to, by definition, say that they are still widening or lumpy in terms of the decisions that we're anticipating. Historically, if we thought you were going to make a decision at September 1, we would typically anticipate that there would be another 60-days of back and forth on contract terms and negotiations and things like that before we could close the deal. I would say that we anticipate that those things are taking longer now to get through. If that helps answer your question.

So John, I would also add to that, there are a number of elements of aftermarket. It's not just parts. It's also service. It's also modernization and consulting for debottlenecking or reconfiguration of a line. And so those things are also important to note that we continue to see interest in all of those areas. And people running their lines efficiently and being able to keep their lines up and running continuously when they're facing certain financial pressures, I think, is one of the critical differentiators between us, a global service network and our ability to respond quickly to customer needs and demands, especially to keep their lines up and running, especially when they're kind of fighting through some of the inflationary times and every hour of uptime matters at this point. And I think that's a critical differentiator for us.

I would say, obviously, we have continued development on capabilities in the service area, but proactive selling and really getting out there and understanding, which customers are a part of our kind of go-forward support and those where we have an opportunity to penetrate -- those -- that has been some very specific work that's been being done in order to make sure that we are tapping into the entire installed base of all of the capital products that we've been putting out in the market.

And we -- if you look at the increase in capital, you would expect to start seeing parts orders as long as we maintain those relationships properly, which has also been a focus of this team over the last, I'd say, 24-months to make sure that installed base has heard from us, understands what they need to have on hand, understand lead times for things and when they need to order and that we're working proactively with them to make sure that they are up and running all the time.

It is, as a dollar for dollar basis.

Great. Thanks, John.

I want to thank you all for joining us today and for your continued interest in ownership in Hillenbrand. We look forward to speaking with you again in February when we will report our fiscal quarter one results. Have a great day and a safe and happy holiday season. Thank you.