Kristin Dolan
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I would just add, David, it's Kristin, on your question about programmatic on linear, like, essentially, what it means is that, the traditional digital advertisers, people that have solely bought digital or dabble in traditional television, they can now purchase our national linear inventory programmatically. So they're basically using the buying platforms that they always used on digital to buy linear television, which for us, and I think for most people in the business is a huge opportunity to finally swing the pendulum back from digital first to shared purchase of traditional television as well as digital to support the advertisers efforts.

Hey, it's Kristin. I'm going to let Dan take the second question and then we'll go back to the Max partnership. Your second question around content was around -- sharing content between AMC+ and AMC? Is that's the question, I'm sorry.

And just to follow up on the Max partnership, I think it was a learning experience for both we were thrilled with the increases in viewership that our content received, both on Max, but then also the associated lift in the more current seasons. And for the series that we shared with Max, when we have more current seasons on AMC+. So we shared a lot of information in a privacy compliant way between the two companies. And I think they were pleased with hopefully some, you know, positive retention and engagement on the Max side. And we were certainly pleased with the learnings and the increased viewership that we got on AMC+ for those series.

I would just add, it's also worth noting that in the past 12 months, we renewed more than half of our affiliates subscriber footprint. And there were some big wins in their dish sling charter. Altis. Media calm, Wow, Philo, Bell, we did a Roger show deal in Canada, amongst others. And then, also obviously, we partnered with Comcast on the now TV offering. And then we launched AMC+ plus with Charter, as you know, plus the aforementioned Philo deal. So we're feeling really positive about our relationships with distributors. And as Patrick said, pretty comfortable with how we're moving forward on the partnership side.

Kim, it's Kristin, again. This part of the technical reworking that we're doing in order to have a consolidated back end that we can turn on streaming wherever we want globally, that's sort of the beauty of delivering over IP as opposed to traditional transmission. But particularly in Spain, I just wanted to mention that we just expanded distribution of AMC+ with Vodafone this summer, and then we've made a lot of progress with our linear networks in Spain and in Portugal, with AMC Select, so we partner individually with through Amazon there. So we actually feel like there's a lot of opportunities around AVOD in certain select European markets. So you couple that opportunity with the work that we're doing technologically and we think the goal here would be, an investment like model that maximizes the overall returns of the consolidated business. So international while a small piece of our overall business is one that we feel very positive about.

Great, I'll take your first question, Steven, on the cost management and the top line. Look, we've been really clear for the last year and going forward about how we're managing the business, streamlining it, making it as efficient as possible. And Patrick's mentioned, our target, where we feel we can do a $0.5 billion in free cash flow in the next two years.

But on the top line, we're really waiting out what's going on in the industry. And what I'm happy about is that we continue to produce through Dan and the team, really high quality content. The TCA event this week was -- we were so proud and so enthusiastic about the slate that we're putting out right now. And this is part of our ongoing strategy to own and manage franchises that we can monetize over time. So as the marketplace sorts itself out, the opportunity to grow top line, in the out years continues to be there, I think it's just got to settle. So we're sort of sticking to our knitting, as you said, tight cost management, but effective utilization of the resources that we have.

And we're going to stick to the plan. And we're optimistic over the next, year to two years that that thing that ship will write itself in our industry, and things will open up again, but we're confident that we're doing what we've always done best, which is create great content for very select, but very passionate audiences.

Sure. Hi, Charlie. On the first part of your question, I would say it's extremely important to our strategy that we are -- we have first sales position on selling our shows. And that has been key to all of our distributions and all of our platform partners and that has been very lucrative for us and the partners. We don't break out specific contribution of this particular line of business but it is growing, we are seeing continued growth quarter-over-quarter and expect that to continue through 24 and then to the future.

On International, the only thing I lead with is, we see huge opportunity in AVOD and Fast. And it's obviously a more nascent market. But as partners like Pluto and Samsung and other global partners start looking at their continued rollout by territory, and it overlaps with the regions that we are strong players in, as Patrick mentioned before, we know we will be at the forefront of those growing businesses.