Lauren Hobart
DICK'S Sporting Goods, Inc. (DKS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Simeon. We are incredibly excited about the momentum that we have in our business just coming off of this Q4 with a 2.8% comp on top of a 5.3% comp. And then looking forward to the year, we are driving growth in top line, margin and profitability overall. And I think the key driver of the margin story is really the differentiated product that we continue to have access to and expand access to. That product is resonating with athletes. It's creating newness and innovation and just a feel in the store of energy. And it's also enabling us to navigate -- this past Q4, a fairly promotional environment where we were able to navigate without having to be extremely promotional, and actually, we drove over 200 basis points of gross margin.

So, House of Sport is a great lever and that it enables us to provide a completely immersive experience for athletes. We've got rock climbing walls and track and field and a whole bunch of elevated service and visual presentation. But importantly, from a margin standpoint, House of Sport does encourage our brand partners, both our strategic partners and our new and emerging branded partners, to experiment. We can bring a brand to life in our collab space in a really exciting way, and therefore enabling us to drive even deeper partnerships and more access to new and different products. So overall, very confident about the long-term margin story.

Yes. So, our strategy is to continue to gain market share in this industry, and we're doing that in several ways. We're doing it with the strategic pillars that we talked about, be it the differentiated products, our investment in athlete experience, our investment in our brand, and our teammate experience, which is really an incredible asset that we have because we have the best teammates in the business and they have incredible momentum.

So, when we look at the growth, it's coming from market share gains. We're also reimagining our portfolio such that we're going to have 20 House of Sport and 27 new prototypes of our 50K, new experience, which is really a takedown of House of Sport and a super exciting place. So, to answer your question directly, we're not counting on a significant amount of category growth because we think we have so much momentum to drive share.

I'm going to add one last thing and to Navdeep's comments, which is the consumer has held up incredibly well. We saw that in Q4. We saw it all last year where we didn't see a trade down from best to better, better to good. We saw growth across all income demographics. So, we do have a healthy consumer and they are increasingly choosing DICK'S to meet their needs.

Thanks.

Thanks, Adrienne. Yes. So, when you look at a House of Sport store, it's important to note that all of our core strategies are coming to life in just -- even in a dialed-up way. So, our differentiated product, the access we have there, the service model, the experiences, all coming to life in a really fantastic way.

So, the vast majority of our revenue still comes from product. Obviously, we also have service revenue in there, but, it's a typical business model. And I think what's really driving that is how the athlete is responding. We've got athletes who are driving further. They're coming more frequently. They're spending more time when they get to a House of Sport, and overall, the sales square foot as a result of that is higher. So, it's really -- it's our core business model, just really elevated.

I'll start with the answer to the question you asked Navdeep just about the newness and the innovation for 2024. We are really excited. And I would say if you go into our stores right now, you can see our spring set. You can see the -- on the soft line side as well as the hard lines and team sports. We are very excited about the innovation that's coming down the pike and our increased access to some of the very hot product that people are reacting -- the athletes are reacting really well to.

Navdeep, I'll turn it to you for the inventory question.

Thanks, Kate. So, in terms of category performance, with the 2.8% comp this past quarter, we saw growth across all of our key categories. So, growth in footwear, growth in apparel and growth in some of the key hardlines categories. So, really it was across the board. The only area of softness was the cold weather that didn't come as we had hoped it would. And so, there was some softness in outerwear, but across the board, really strong growth in our core categories.

I'll turn it to Navdeep to the next question.

Hi, Robbie. Thanks for the question. We're not guiding to digital versus in-store overall. In the fourth quarter, transactions were flat. Most of the growth came from ticket. However, it's really important to note that in Q4 of last year, we were up over 7.6% in transactions. So, from a two-year basis on an omnichannel standpoint, really, really strong growth in transactions. Digital business remains really strong, but we're not going to get into more details on that.

Overall, this year we did have -- the majority of growth did come from transaction growth, if you look at the 2.4%. So, we are very confident in our comp guidance.

Yeah. And the stores are fulfilling over 80% of e-com orders, 90% of orders across the board if you include the brick and mortar. So, it's appropriate to think of it as omnichannel sales.

Thank you.

Thanks, Brian. Yeah. So, we do feel that we are appropriately reserved for shrink. We've been doing significantly more inventory [pauses] (ph) and do believe that we have an appropriate reserve going forward. In Q1, it's important to note that we are still up against the headwind of the fact that we didn't put the extra shrink reserve in until -- the end of Q2 last year. But, overall, we're doing a lot of things in store to mitigate. We're working with loss prevention and local law enforcement as well as moving products through the [blacklist] (ph) store that are high shrinks. So, we have a lot going on, but overall, we are appropriately reserved.

Brian, I really think the transaction growth has so much to do with things like our differentiated product and the access that we have. But on top of that, when athletes are coming into our stores, our team or shopping online, our team is striving to make that omnichannel athlete experience really satisfy and they're making great progress there. And then, also I think the brand and the fact that we are a brand that is very much based in our values, and we continue to talk about the power of sports. So, all of those things are working together and driving strong transactions.

John, it's also -- it's across the board. It's not -- that isn't just top-line story here. We are focused on margin gains across the entire portfolio.

Thanks, Joe. I mean, we are gaining market share due to our differentiated experience, reimagining of our portfolio, the experience we're providing. I think it's coming from a lot of places. And as we continue to get differentiated access to product, I believe it will continue to come.

All right, thank you.

Thanks, everybody, and thanks for your interest in DICK'S Sporting Goods. And I wanted to shout out to our 50,000 teammates who really are the reason that we are driving these incredible results. Thank you all very much. See you next quarter.