Linda Rendle
The Clorox Company (CLX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Hi, Peter. I'll start with your first question then I'll hand it over to Kevin. So on Q4, over-delivery versus what we had expected, as we noted, we did see stronger consumption across the board across our categories in aggregate. And that's a result of two things, mainly. The first being elasticities continue to be better than they have been historically. And that's an aggregate comment. You know, we see differences by category, but in aggregate, they're favorable and trade promo has been normalizing at a slower pace than we'd expect. And we'll continue to see that normalize as we go through fiscal year 2024, but for Q4, it wasn't to the degree that we thought it would be. So that's -- that's the first bucket, stronger consumption.

The second is, better operational performance by our team, and that's just a broad statement across the supply chain. We were able to make some supply that we didn't think we would have. Our shipments to retailers were stronger than we had expected. Just a lot of the things operationally came together with great execution and supported that growth. And then finally in Kingsford, and we spoke about in Q3, we did not perform to our expectations in Q3. We made significant adjustments to the plan, including working with retailers on category growth plans, centered in having the right merchandising and those performed significantly better than we had expected, which was great to see and the consumer reacted very favorably and retailers executed with excellence.

And those are really the big three main buckets between what we saw, and what we expected.

Yeah. 2% to 4% percent organic sales growth and 0% to 2% from a reported is what we're expecting now. And that is slightly below what we want from a long-term perspective. But, just to put that in perspective, of course, if you look at our four-year CAGR and our strategy period, we did deliver in the midpoint of that range at 4% and again, 4% this year. This year coming up is a kind of a tale of two halves, is the way I would talk about it. And we expect stronger growth in the front half as we continue to lap the two price increases that we have. And then in the back half, we expect it to get tougher for consumers. And right now, our expectation is a mild recession.
So when you put those things together, I think in aggregate, we feel good about the top-line that we've committed to. In addition, that includes about 1 point of a headwind from our vitamins, minerals, and supplements business. As we spoke about, over the last couple of calls, we have re-engineered that plan to focus more on profitability, and we've done that at a trade-off from a top-line perspective. So that does include a 1 point headwind. And, over time, we would expect that that wouldn't be the case and that, that would help us return to getting in within that 3% to 5%.

The way that I would think about this, as we march through the year, we are expecting, again, lapping two price increases, we are expecting our elasticities to be more normalized as we go through the course of the year. We're expecting trade promotion to normalize as well, and then we're expecting a mild recession in the back half. Those are all of our assumptions in forming that growth.

And if those come true, we feel this plan is a very balanced plan, but we'll be watching really carefully as we move through the year. If any one of those assumptions change, and we need to adjust our plan, that could impact both, on the high end and the lower end of us delivering against what we put out there from an outlook perspective.

Sure. So on the marketing spend, as you rightly noted, we've spent about 10% of sales on advertising and sales promotion over our history. And there's times we've spent more than that. This year, we're targeting 11% and we think that's a prudent investment given the pressure the consumer is going to be under from a macroeconomic perspective, the fact that we are coming off of four rounds of pricing, significant price increase, obviously cost justified, but we want to continue to support the consumer as they transition through that. And so we think 11% is the right number. And you have two data points that give us confidence that 11% is the right number.

During the pandemic, we took our advertising spending up, even at a time when we couldn't fully supply. That increase in advertising led to stronger superiority ratings for our brands, and that gave us the confidence to take the four rounds of pricing that we took. So we think again, in a time where consumers are pressured and stressed, investing that additional point of advertising makes a lot of sense.

And then the second data point I would give you is that we've been on a journey to get to know 100 million consumers in the US, and that allows us to personalize to them, which was part of our IGNITE strategy. We've nearly met that goal, and that has led to a return on investment in our advertising being the highest it ever was. We reached a high point year. So we feel really good about putting that extra point in because we know what we're going to get from a returns perspective in addition to supporting the superiority of our brands. And again, we'll continue evaluate this moving forward. Doesn't mean it will necessarily be 11% the year after. This is really a roll up of what we think our general managers need to best support our brands during this time.

And then from a promotion perspective, promotions continue to be lower than they were pre-pandemic, but are ramping up. Our expectation is throughout the course of the year, we'll return to more normalized promotions, so similar to what we were pre-pandemic. And, we've assumed to be fair, though, this year, it would ramp up faster and it hasn't. But based on what we're seeing in the data, we think that's a fair assumption. And again, we wouldn't be targeting going beyond what we were pre-pandemic, but just returning to those levels that we had.

And for our categories, that still means the vast majority of our sales are done off the shelf with no price reduction. Most of this is good quality merchandising, targeting the consumer around key price points, et cetera. So we think those in combination are the right level of spend given the consumer dynamics, given what we see from a return perspective and what we think is needed to grow categories and to grow share over the long term.

And then your question on household penetration, when we talked about this a bit over the last few quarters, household penetration, along with volume, were things we knew were going to take a hit we took the level of pricing we have over the last 18 months. And we've certainly seen that. And this is a category comment, not just a Clorox brand comment, but what we tend to see is people having short-term reactions from a behavior perspective, and they adjust as they see the initial shock of pricing. And, certainly, they've seen four rounds they've had to adjust to.

So typically what we see is we see consumers looking to go to alternates. Maybe they use the inventory they have in their home, they delay a purchase cycle, they look -- they engage in value seeking behavior. They trade up to larger sizes or smaller sizes. And in very extreme cases, they leave the category. And then from a household penetration perspective, a number of those factors play in. We've seen some light users exit the category, which isn't a big surprise. It's typically what we've seen during price increases. And I think importantly to note, again, this is a category behavior, not a Clorox brand behavior.

And then what we're focused on, of course, is over time returning that household penetration. And I think it's important to put in perspective, we're still in nine out of 10 US households in our portfolio. But we want to be in a place where we're growing household penetration again. So what I would think about is all the investments that we spoke about a little earlier, increase in advertising and sales promotion, as well as our focus on innovation and category growth plans are all in service of returning to volume growth, returning to household penetration growth and then, of course, our aim over the long term to grow share.

I mean we would expect household penetration to begin to improve as we get through pricing, and as we move through the course of the year and then through the course of our plan. But what I would say is, very in line with our expectation, and we feel good about the plans we have in place to continue to make progress on household penetration in fiscal year ‘24 and beyond.

Yeah. On volume, maybe just to take a step back, I think would be helpful and talk a little bit more similar to my comments on household penetration of what impacts volume and then what we believe we'll see over time as we return to more volume based growth from more pricing driven growth. So the big picture on this, we knew we were going to make a volume trade-off with the level of pricing that we took. And certainly that pricing was cost justified. And I think that's the right trade-off given the fact that we were able to deliver the top-line and margin progress that we committed to.

And it's only one lever that we look at it, understanding brand and category health. So if we if we look at volume, again, what impacts it? Consumers are adjusting to pricing right now. And we still have two price increases that we will lap here in Q1 and Q2. And so they're still adjusting to what the pricing is. And they're adjusting to pricing well beyond our categories. I think it's also important to note there's an element of cross elasticity here. Everything in their world has changed from a wallet perspective. And they also just came through a pandemic and they want to have experiences. So we're watching that consumer settle out.

And what we're seeing in our data is volumes are beginning to improve. You saw that if you look to 52 weeks, our volumes were down more than they were in the latest 13 weeks, for example, so we are making improvement. We still have to lap those two price increases. But from a consumer behavior standpoint, what you'll see is consumers will return to their old routines because those routines were the most efficient and effective for them, and particularly in essential categories, they don't want to have to work harder to do this stuff.

So perhaps they've run through the inventory they have in their house, maybe they tried an alternative and it doesn't work as well, and we tend to see those people start to come back. We also saw light users category loss tend to come back again because we reintroduce our products to them through innovation. We use our advertising spend to talk to them about the benefits of the product, we remind them that, and they pick us up again as they send their child back to school or if their family experiences a run of cold and flu in the house. So those moments, we tend to bring those light users over, and volumes tends to grow again.

And we've seen that every time we've taken pricing, and that's consistent in categories. I think what's unique for this time is, the amount of inflation our industry and Clorox experienced specifically is unprecedented. We’re certainly not taking this level of pricing. So it really will be about the pace that this happens at. But we're happy with the progress we've made so far. We think we have the right plans in place. We're making the right investments. Our brands are still a superior value versus what they were pre-pandemic, so they're very strong. And we believe over time, again, we will make progress on volumes and return to more volume-based growth moving forward.

So on elasticity, what we saw in Q4 specifically was continued in aggregate, lower elasticities than pre-pandemic and lower than we had expected. Again, this is nuanced by categories or some categories that are less favorable, et cetera. But in aggregate, our elasticities were more favorable than we expected. What we expect to happen in fiscal year ’24 is over time those elasticities return to more normalized levels. And it's not anything related to particularly our categories, but just the broader pressure the consumer is under.

So if you look at what's going on, certainly balance sheets for them are returning to pre-pandemic levels, particularly savings rates where the consumer had a lot of excess savings over the last few years. Right now, we are anticipating a mild recession in the back half. We think that's the most prudent plan based on what we're seeing for economic predictions in the US. That will put additional pressure on the consumer as well. And we think those factors in combination will lead to more normalized price elasticities, and that's what we have assumed in the plan.

Sure, Chris. Yeah. I won't speak on behalf of the industry, I’ll certainly let everyone speak on their own behalf. But I can just give you the insights into how we're thinking about it. And I think it's a pretty clear understanding. We -- headed into COVID, we had learned a lot about volatility and the impact that it had on our business. And so we began investing more a number of years ago to ensure that we had the right digital foundation, that we had the right organization suited to a more volatile environment, that we have the right capabilities to ensure that we continue to lead from a consumer insights perspective and that the data we have flows as fast as we possibly can get it, so that we can make quick decisions.

So that was certainly an area for us where we needed to invest within our digital transformation and our operating model to ensure we could react as fast as consumers could be. We want to be more consumer obsessed, faster, and leaner. And then if you look at the bucket on promotional spending, I look at that as more of a return to the norm. And for us, that spending is on good things. We spend mostly on quality merchandising. We do that to introduce consumers to innovation. We do that to remind them in keep pulse points of the year, like back to school, back to college, remind them the great products that we have, introduce them to new benefits, et cetera. And so seeing that return to more pre-pandemic levels, I think, makes good sense given the industry can fully supply now. We can certainly supply now. And so we get back into that good cadence of giving the right information to shoppers.

And then on A&SP, which we have decided to take up, as you know, from 10% to 11%, and, and we addressed earlier, I think this is another case where the number one thing that we can do right now is ensure that we have superior value for our consumers. And we have that from a ratings perspective. Over the last couple of years, we reached the highest brand superiority overall from a portfolio perspective we've ever had. We continue to have more of our portfolio of superior than we did pre-pandemic. And we think given the stress that consumer is going to be under, it would make absolute sense given the improvement we've made on margin to invest a bit more in advertising and sales promotion to secure that with consumers.

And that's how we're thinking about it. We have great brands, great innovation, great products, and we want them at this time when they're making those choices in their total basket of spending to remind them in our household essential categories no one delivers a better value than Clorox. And that's exactly what we're focused on. So to me, I think it is it's exactly what we do. We focus on the long term. We focus on building brands. And the spending is right in line with doing that.

Thanks, Chris.

Javier, maybe it would be good just to back up again and go through to make sure we go through all the drivers of what drove track consumption versus organic sales, and Kevin just covered part of it. But we do have a fair amount of our sales in non-track channels. It's a little complicated because non-track does not include international PPD, which is why Kevin broke it out the way he did. So, just to break it down, we had Q4 organic sales growth of 14% and we saw track sales consumption of about 7%. So the delta would be what Kevin highlighted. International and PPD are portion of that. PPD grew volume, international held volume. Remember that we're lapping wipes inventory that Kevin spoke about, and that's a portion of it.

And then we saw stronger, non-tracked performance in a number of retailers on a number of businesses. And that's across e-commerce and brick and mortar, et cetera. And then in addition to that, we did, we haven't spoken a lot about this yet, but we do always ship some of our Q1 events in Q4, and that contributed to that delta as well. But we do have a strong non-channel track channel presence. And so, yes, that absolutely can move the number. And this is pretty normal for us to have a quarter that is a bit disconnected from tracked channel sales, in addition that you have the fact that we have very strong merchandising in Q1 as we normally do, and we typically ship some of that in Q4. But those are really the -- if you look at those four buckets, those are the four buckets of the difference between the 14% and the 7%.

Olivia, I'll add just one point to that. Kevin underscored the $200 million, which is significantly better than what we had at $500 million in fiscal year '23. But I just want to underscore that's still three times the level of average we had before we got into this inflationary cycle on an average year of inflation. So I think the point that Kevin is making is really important to understand. This is still a very challenging environment with significant cost inflation, although certainly better than we experienced over the last two years.

Sure. Innovation continues to be the lifeblood of how we grow our brands over time. And we set out to deliver bigger, secure innovation platforms as part of our IGNITE strategy. And we've talked about the fact that we've been able to have more net contribution from innovation in our strategy period than we did in the prior strategy period. And we're going to continue to focus on accelerating that this year. We have innovation across our portfolio just as we did this year. So all of our major brands launched innovation in fiscal year '23. We would expect something similar in fiscal year '24. We're really focused on value and value superiority in that innovation. So we're looking at a combination of product improvements and new innovations, as well as good claims support.

And of course, we'll support that innovation with that 11% of sales from an advertising and sales promotion perspective. But we think as we lap these price increases, as a consumer comes under more pressure, innovation will be as important as it ever has been. And certainly our retailers are looking for innovation to help them grow their categories to ensure that we're getting shoppers down the aisles, et cetera. So what I would say is it's a continuation of what we've done. Of course, we want to have additional progress as we can and think we have the right investments to ensure that that continues in fiscal year ‘24.

Yeah. We made good progress as we returned to full supply and getting our total distributions point up. So we made good progress over the last, call it, 18 to 24 months across a number of our businesses. And you all remember that in many cases where, the current -- us and our competitors couldn't fully supply to a lot of third tier brands that had entered in, for the most part, that is cleaned up, and we've been able to gain distribution points as a result of that in aggregate. What we're focused on for fiscal year ‘24 is exactly what you said. We want to gain distribution on our innovation. We want to make sure that we have the right SKUs on the shelf, as we think about, the right pack for the consumer, given their value seeking.

We think we've done most of that work, but we want to continue to make progress, and particularly ensure that we get our innovations on shelf as fast as we possibly can on both the physical and digital shelf, and that's what the team will be focused on. And that will contribute to ‘24. We expect the category growth plans and the plans we have with retailers and our execution of those plans to contribute. But we feel good about what we're walking into and what we have for both the front half and the back half.
Thanks, Lauren.

So we've certainly taken account of the foundation of any year that we plan. We look at what we expect the categories to contribute, and, our assumptions in both as we lap pricing and as we head into what we predict is a mild recession in the back half of our fiscal, assume category rates commensurate with that. And then by category, we're looking at our plans, comparing it to that and adjusting based off of if we see headwinds or tailwinds. We want to make progress over the long term on share. We've built that into these plans. We've built in the fact that we're spending additional advertising and sales promotion, that we have good innovation plans. And that lands us at the total outlook that we've provided. But they're very much grounded in the realities of the categories and what we expect.

That's fair.

Thanks, Steve.

Hi, Jason. Thank you for your comment. And then on your question on price rollback, just to be completely clear, so we're all on the same page, we've rolled back one price increase in a category we no longer own from a truckload perspective after taking an increase. And the other ones that you're referring to, I think, rightfully on Glad, is we've always used trade as a way to evaluate given resin is such volatile commodity. And so as we've taken pricing, we've used trade in the past in order to make up a difference if we've seen favorability in resin that we needed to deal with or we saw something change in the category. But the pricing that we've taken has stuck in the marketplace.

And given what we're facing right now, obviously, we have not fully recovered margins, made great progress through the pricing action we've taken, but we have additional work to do given the fact that we continue to see an inflationary environment, also we talked about three times the average year, certainly better than last year, but still a big headwind. We are planning to -- and anticipate the pricing increases will stick, and that will bring back volume and household penetration through innovation and through investment in advertising and sales promotion.

But we don't see any structural reason why these price increases wouldn't stick like they have in the past. And again, we're really focused on ensuring we grow categories the right way through those other levers. And if we need to make an adjustment, I think Kingsford is a good example. We did not roll back pricing. So we took pricing. Competition did not follow. We made an adjustment to our plan by putting incremental merchant place. We did not rollback. Our truckload pricing, we continue to hold that, is a good example of how we're approaching it, that if we see a dynamic in a category we need to react to, we will try to do that in a short-term manner, and maintain the truckload pricing we've taken.

Yeah. I see it as a continuation of what we've done in the past, Jason, seems like we have a little bit of different data. But, yes, I think we're getting to the same conclusion, which is we intend for these and price increases to stick. We think we have the right tools in place to do that. And we're focused on all the other levers we can pull to continue on the strong category performance we've had from a top-line perspective as I noted on spending and innovation. But we're -- you're landing on the same conclusion, which is we believe these price increases will stick and have a good structural reason to do that.

Thanks, Jason.

Great. Thank you, everyone. We look forward to speaking with you again on our next call. And until then, please stay well.