Lorie Tekorius
The Greenbrier Companies, Inc. (GBX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And I would say, yes, the Eagle Pass situation is something that we're watching very closely. We're very engaged at our various facilities as we're making certain that we're getting the inbound material that we need to produce railcars as well as outbound. We have been working very closely with the rail roads that service our facilities and at this point in time, we have not had significant disruptions or issues in getting railcars picked up from our facilities or getting them across the border. That being said, we are not resting on our laurels. Every day we're coming up with different ways that we can think about how we might mitigate any sort of disruption that we might encounter, including, whether it's different border crossings or different ways to move railcars into the United States.

That was a lot, Justin. Thank you. So we did think long and hard as we were giving our guidance around deliveries and revenue, acknowledging that there might be a little bit of a, swallowing hard on what's going on. We are -- we and others in this space are being very disciplined about how we think about production, not just dialing up production so that we can put a big flash number out there and then see 12 or 18 months from now production needing to be dialed back.

I think that the industry is responding in a very disciplined way. I think the fact that we're dedicating some of our new car space into some of these other activities, this large program work, which is critical in our industry, particularly in the North American market, allows us to keep lines running as opposed to, again, ramping up it's going to be a creative to earnings, but it doesn't show up in the delivery numbers and the revenue associated with that activity is going to be less.

So when everyone likes to go through their process of taking manufacturing revenues and just dividing it by deliveries, you're going to probably start to see some headwinds to the ASP and I would liken it to back when there used to be more intermodal activity going on. Intermodal cars have a lower ASP, which was kind of that gets to that mix shift.

I would hope that as we continue to present the activities that we're doing, you and our shareholders will see that we're looking at our footprints and where we've made investments in our facilities and our operations and we're making certain to deploy those in ways that are generating a good return.

You go right ahead, Justin, and I'll.

Yes, and I would say I'm speaking to intermodal. I think to me, while right now there's not a lot of demand for intermodal and our delivery guidance doesn't include any intermodal activity, I think that could be a bright spot if as consumer activity shifts from services more back to goods, there might be a bright spot of a need for intermodal equipment.

Sure, Bascome. Thank you. And I do think that that is achievable right now. One of the things that maybe we haven't highlighted as consistently is as we're building our own fleet. That means that we're taking some of the production that would typically be sold or syndicated and keeping it on our balance sheet. And it takes a little time for the earnings associated with that recurring revenue to build up to offset that immediate recognition of margin right away. So I absolutely see as we are continuing to focus on efficiency in our operating activities, so manufacturing as well as our maintenance services and aftermarket parts, I see that revenue and margin build when it comes to leasing. So I would be great if we could just kind of say, yes, dollar a quarter. And then where do we go?

No, what I'm suggesting is so we have, so if you think about it, someone needs a rail car. They may want to buy it. That's great. We're happy to build a rail car and sell it straight out. Oftentimes, we have folks who don't want to buy a car. They want to lease the car. We have very strong lease origination capabilities to the extent that we are building our owned lease fleet to create this recurring revenue cash flow, tax-advantaged cash flow stream, predictable revenue. We're keeping some of those on our balance sheet, meaning over time, as we grow our portfolio, you are going to have more of this recurring revenue and stable earnings. In the short term, that means that some of the immediate satisfaction you might get through the P&L by selling the car or syndicating them, that's going to get deferred.

No, yes.

No, I was just going to say we are keeping more of what we originate on our balance sheet than we would have historically.

Sure, and I guess what I would say is we're trying to highlight the fact that some of our new car production space is being consumed. I think Brian indicated about 15% of our space is being consumed by activity that does not show up in just a delivery statistic. We can think about how we do a different job to identify how much of what's the revenue or the margin potential on that activity. But I would say that the OEMs in the North American space are being a bit more disciplined as opposed to just trying to crank the dial up to juice out a bunch of deliveries in a particular period. But we're thinking about the longer term and when our customers need the rail cars and what's that right steady pace of producing cars. So as we look at our footprint and make certain that we are utilizing the investments that we've made in that footprint to generate return, it is not as easy as in the past where it was just look at deliveries and convert it to revenue. There's other activity going on.

Great [statistics], Ken.

And then maybe the one last thing I would jump in on when it comes to international is we are getting some nice traction in Europe on originating leases. So this is where in the European market we are taking those commercial capabilities that we have to originate at least working directly with the shipper. The difference for now is that we're not holding those railcars on our balance sheet but we are syndicating them through to a syndication partner but it does give us more control of our production levels, our production schedule and puts us right in touch with our customer which has served us well in the North American market.

Sure, Steve. So, yes, and this is not a process that is not over yet, but the places that we have executed on in fiscal 2023 is we sold the Gunderson Marine operation that's here in Portland, Oregon, so that concluded in May, I believe, and then we also sold a small foundry that was part of the ARI acquisition foundries located in Texas.

We sold that in August. We also exited a joint venture that we had in Turkey where we were manufacturing some components to go into our Polish and Romanian operations. We exited that joint venture in August, and then all the way back to, I think it was January, which at some points in time, I feel like this has been the never-ending year, but all the way back to January, we acquired the minority interest in our GBX leasing lease fleet so that now that's wholly owned. And in my prepared remarks, we spoke to the fact that exiting some of those businesses should give us annual savings of about $20 million on a go-forward basis.

I would say that we're constantly looking at it, which is where this conversation was going on with Ryan around how we're utilizing our manufacturing footprint here in North America and saying, we've got this excise footprint that has been dedicated to primarily new railcar production. What are the needs of our customers in North America?

And to the extent that they have large refurbishment program needs or re-qualifications, if we can utilize those investments in a manufacturing facility to be able to serve our customer and do it in a way that drops through accretively to the bottom line, that's what we'll do. We've got that opportunity in Europe to also look at how we're utilizing our footprint there. We probably have, I think we have five facilities in Europe. And if we can get the right workforce in the right area, I think that we could increase our production throughput in those facilities. So that's, again what we're looking at is how do we optimize the investments that we've made.

So and I'm not looking at all of those specific numbers, so Justin will realign if I step off in the wrong direction, but you're absolutely right when it comes to our operating facilities looking at, looking long and hard at where we're making investments to make certain that where those investments are generating the kind of return. And sometimes it might take more than just a particular 12 months to get that sort of return or benefit. The other side of this is we are growing our lease fleet.

So that means that there are cars that we have originated the transaction on the leasing transaction and we're choosing because of the quality of that transaction to hold that on our balance sheet. And that is allowing us to grow a very diverse portfolio of railcars that we're holding. It's about $13,600 at the end of August and different take, $200. But it's, it's a diverse car type. It's diverse commodities that are being carried. It's diverse terms. It's diverse lessees, but that is consuming cash that is not being converted into, it's not being monetized as we would have historically done it.

And the one last thing that I would pitch in there is on growing the lease fleet, there's a lot of tax advantage cash flow. So if you look at the balance sheet, you'll see that our tax deferral has increased. So that is another benefit to growing this lease fleet is the tax benefit from those investments.

It does go in both places. It's more the way that we manage it. It's based on the primary activity that goes on in that facility. So to the extent, let's say in Arkansas that we're doing some of these, this program work, it would still show up in manufacturing revenue, even though it's more refurbishment work, because we're managing it as a manufacturing facility.

We do expect, I do expect manufacturing margins to grow. We are not satisfied with

where they are. We do expect that to continue to grow. And that is part of, to the extent that you remember back when Bill Krueger was presenting at Investor Day, and we were talking about our insourcing program, which we expect to reduce or create a benefit of somewhere in $50 million to $55 million by 2025. We are constant, we are not satisfied with where our margins are, and we will continue to be a combination of investing to be in control of our own destiny, as well as to think through how can we operate our facilities more efficiently, whether it's for program work or new rail car manufacturing.

Thanks, Matt.

Thank you, Sarah. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today on our call to discuss our fiscal 2023 results, as well as our outlook for 2024. We're excited to get after all of the opportunities that we laid out today, as well as at our investor day back in April. Thank you very much.