Sara Armbruster
Steelcase Inc. (SCS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Well, maybe I'll start with the long-term vision and then Dave can talk about some of the quantification. I mean we've talked pretty consistently about how we continue to try to balance delivering short-term profits with staying invested in the longer-term strategy with respect to the specific initiatives that those investments are going after.

I mean it's really spread across a number of the things I talked about our commitment to staying invested in product innovation, to solve our customers' most pressing workplace needs, our continued investments in the diversification strategy, and helping support, initiatives like our mid-market initiative or our education business continue to grow, it's really kind of across the board in terms of those three pillars.

So, at a high level, we have been committed to those three important strategies and we remain committed to those three important strategies, and as you know, we have the opportunity to continue to invest in those to drive those forward, that's what we're doing. So at a high level, that's how I would describe kind of where the money will go.

Thanks.

Well, I think we are always, as we've said previously, thinking about both organic and inorganic opportunities to invest in the business. We remain pretty active in keeping our eyes open and asking those questions in terms of what might make sense for our strategy and what might be the right next moves. So I would say we continue to ask those questions as we always do and we continue to look at opportunities to drive our strategy forward.

Yeah, so I feel really good about where we're positioned. I mean, you'll recall that over the past couple of years during the pandemic, we made the explicit choice to remain committed to the office, so we stayed invested in product development. We did a ton of research to better understand the very question you're asking throughout the pandemic. We made moves like the acquisition of Halcon to help support what we felt was going to be the portfolio that we would need to be successful.

And in terms of what we're seeing right now, I wish Eddy Schmitt, our Head of Americas, were here right now, but he's not because he's actually out there calling on large companies and he was recently out on the East Coast. He was in the West Coast last week. He's in Europe this week and it's been interesting to hear him reflect on the energy, I would say, that many of these organizations are bringing to their spaces and really thinking about what's next and what's required for them to be successful.

And two key things for sure among several that have come out of those recent conversations are the continued desire to create more privacy and options for privacy for individuals within the workplace, and then also investment in really terrific social spaces. So having more informal collaboration social kind of spaces that are a draw for people to come back to the office as well as creating the opportunity for people to come together in different kinds of ways within in office and I think on both those fronts, privacy and social spaces, we've done a lot of work over the past couple of years, both through acquisitions and our own product development, as well as the partnerships we've developed to give us a I think a pretty competitive portfolio to allow us to be successful.

Thanks.

Yeah, maybe I can give some color on the comments. I think one of the things that we've seen from large corporations recently is more investment in, I'll say, significant projects. So we've talked in previous quarters about how many of our larger customers have been interested in discussion and conversation and some of them had moved into pilots or small scale.

I'll say tests of new space idea, but I think more recently we've seen more energy, more interest, and more actual orders that tie it to true action where customers, at least some customers are making bigger investments to renovate an entire building or to move into a new location and obviously just kind of the scale of those types of projects, generates higher revenue for us because they're bigger.

So, I think the reference to large corporate projects is some evidence that we're seeing more and more customers who have been thinking and talking and experimenting and highlighting, starting to make bigger commitments to their future workplace strategy.

Thanks.

Great. Well I just want to thank you all for joining and I'd also like to invite you to join us for our Investor Day planned on May 4th in New York City, which we will also webcast. I'll be there along with several members of our leadership team to discuss our strategy and review our longer-term targets. So we look forward to seeing you and we appreciate your interest in Steelcase as we continue to focus on driving improved results. Have a great day.