Stephanie Linnartz
Under Armour, Inc. (UAA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, thank you, Jim, and I'm happy to be with all of you today. As it relates to the product inconsistency challenge or the inconsistency challenge overall. First of all, you're right, it's not something that can happen overnight, but we are already starting to move on this. One of the first things that we're doing is positioning some of our existing products in a more premium way. We do have some products in that better or best part of the pyramid. And we're repositioning those products right away through better storytelling and better merchandising primarily through our own stores and on our website. So that's really step 1 and what we can do in the near term. From a broader perspective, it really does get to building out the better and best part of the product pyramid what I am most excited about in terms of driving consistency and driving growth is what we're going to do with Sportstyle. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, that triples the size of Under Armour's total addressable market to $300 billion.

A big part of Sportstyle is going to be footwear and women, not exclusively, but those are big areas of growth for us, and there again, it's going to be a 2-step process. It's not going to be done overnight. Phase 1, we'll start with that repositioning of our existing products. I mean we have some great stuff to be more specific around unstoppable joggers or Fleece graphic tees, the summit, knit, sweat shirts to name just a couple of things. So we're going to -- we have some great stuff we're going to merchandise and market in a different way, as I mentioned. But Phase 2 is, again, where you're going to see new products that are consistently delivered, and it's also not just about the products, it's about the marketing and where we distribute them.

So we've got a lot of new efforts underway about how we're going to market in a different way and particularly to new consumers. And then on the distribution front, it's -- we are going to continue to, of course, work with our existing wholesale partners. But I think we're going to open up new doors of distribution too in the mall, new department stores, et cetera. And of course, our own channels will always be a focus. But to just step back and summarize the answer to your question around consistency is it's really going to be a 2-step Phase 1, Phase 2 approach.

Yes. So we are great question. We are putting together KPIs and metrics around the percentage of products and that better and best bucket, their growth trajectory, we'll continue to do voice of the customer work to understand how consumers are relating to that better and best part of the pyramid and of course, talking to our customers. So we are putting together that scorecard of KPIs as we march forward. I've been here 2.5 months, so we're just getting started and pulling that together, but we're hard at work at it. So Kevin, anything to add from your lens?

Sure, of course. What gives me so much confidence about our opportunity to grow the company significantly is the strong base we have in performance. I mean, it's -- I've been really lucky in my first 2.5 months to meet with some of our athletes and coaches and athletic directors, people like Justin Jefferson and coach Freeman from Notre Dame. I knew it before I came here, but it's even more apparent to me that athletes absolutely love Under Armour. They believe in the performance of our products. So we're coming from that place of strength as we lean into things like Sportstyle, which again triples our total addressable market. So that gets me excited. I went through the key elements of our strategy, which are really all about product, marketing and distribution at the end of the day and doing that in different ways, better product, marketing in different ways, distribution, growing the doors we're in from a wholesale perspective, being a better partner to our existing wholesale accounts, improving our own retail stores, improving our website, but why -- the devil is always in the details when you're running a company.

And to me, why I know we can pull this off is 3 things. And I mentioned this in my prepared remarks, but let me explain a little bit more, it's about focused execution and accountability. When I got here, there was a long, long list of projects and efforts that the company was trying to tackle. And a lot of what you've heard today, I recognize some of it isn't new. But what we've done is we've really narrowed down the list of projects and efforts for the next 3 years, so we can be laser-focused. Focus like leads to results. The second thing is about execution. It's all about making sure that we're breaking down silos across teams, the product teams, the marketing teams, the teams out in the regions running our business day in, day out. So I'm spending a lot of time and effort on how we work together as a team to drive the business. And then third, accountability, I am holding myself, my executive team, the entire team accountable for business results. and it's all about results at the end of the day.

I very much recognize the time for action is now. We need to deliver, and that's what I'm holding myself and the team accountable to. So it's not always the most glamorous part, but it's is the tactical things that have you pull off a strategy at the end of the day, focus, execution and accountability, and as we do that, we are laser-focused on driving the top line, but equally focused on driving bottom line and profitable growth. So I'm spending a lot of time understanding where the profit comes from an Under Armour and diving in deep to understand that side of the business, too. So at the end of the day, it's about driving profitable growth, and that is how we'll be measuring ourselves not only in fiscal year '24, of course, but in '25 and beyond where we think our efforts will really start to take off.

Sure. Well, I'll start, and then I'll flip it to Dave. But on your question about growth, I'm not ready to put a figure out there quite yet, but I am absolutely confident that we can grow this company significantly over the years ahead. Just a couple of statistics that I think about in that context, when our footwear business is only $1.5 billion today, that's great, but it's only 25%. So that's an area of exponential growth. I mentioned the women's business, relatively small. That's another area of exponential growth. So again, we have a lot of work to do over the coming weeks and months to flesh out the details of our plan in terms of our medium- to long-term growth targets, including our profit targets, which would incorporate our growth. The way we're thinking about gross margin. But again, not prepared to call the number today but absolutely prepared to call that we have significant growth ahead of us in the years ahead. But Dave, I'll flip it over to you for the questions on China, et cetera.

Sure. Absolutely. And good morning, Bob. Great to be with you. So the #1 job we're looking for right now or 1 of 2 is the chief commercial office job, consumer officer, pardon me. And where we've got a great slate of candidates lined up and hope to have that filled in the coming months. Another position that we are -- have out for search is a Chief Communications Officer. As I've mentioned, marketing and communications is going to be both together or going to be a critical part of how we tell our story to our athletes, our consumers and to you or other stakeholders. So those are 2 jobs that I'm currently looking for on my leadership team. And then I'm digging in deep to figure out the rest. Again, I've only been here 2.5 months.

So I'm one of the reasons I'm so excited to have all of these direct reports to me in the interim, meaning I mentioned this in my prepared remarks, the head of brand marketing, sports marketing digital data and analytics is in this area, having an all report directly to me allows me to roll up my sleeves and get into the details and figure out what additional talents and capabilities we need, in particular in that area is just one example. And then the last point I'd make on talent because it's such an absolutely critical question that you've asked is we're also supplementing with bringing in outside talent to work with us on collaborations and things of that nature. So it's early days for me in terms of getting my arms around our needs in this space, but it is a very, very big area of focus for me, for sure.

Well, I think we need both over time, both investment and then anything is always about people, process and systems, right? And so there is a talent element to what we're going to be pulling off with PTH 3. There is a system and process piece of it, and that will require investment over time. As Dave mentioned in his prepared remarks, we're laser-focused on expense control and simplifying and optimizing our cost structure. And as we do that and particularly in the short term, what it's going to allow us to do is redeploy resources against our top priorities, which links back to my plan on focus. So keeping our costs very much in line with where they should be. But I do think a lot of the things that we're going to do over the years ahead will require investment. I mean I'll use a real-life example.

We have a lot of work to do on our website and our app. I have a real vision for where we're going to take our website and our app. We've made some progress, improve things like site speed and product spec pages, more kind of the way the site works from a more tactical standpoint, but I have a much bigger vision of where we can take it. And it should be the -- one of the most premium ways we can bring our brand to the world. So things like investing in our digital assets will be a focus for us. So again, there's many more examples, but that's the one that comes to mind right away. But again, it is about -- it's about talent, it's about investment in systems and it's about process.

So I'll start with the first part, what is the health of the brand today. I think as we noted in our prepared remarks and Kevin in some of his answers, we are very, very strong in the performance space, very strong there. And we have a very solid base business in the good part of the product pyramid where we're not as strong and where the brand needs to get healthier is in the better and best part of the product pyramid. And we also need to consistently execute across marketing and distribution. And I use the word in consistency, the way -- some of the challenges that Under Armour has faced very purposely because there are places where we really have done some great things. Heat gear, cold gear, compression would be an example. And more recently, Kevin talked about SlipSpeed. And when we execute well across the 4 Ps, product, price, place and promotion like we did with SlipSpeed, we win.

So I'd say the health of the brand is strong from a performance perspective, but needs to get healthier and grow in the better and best part of the product pyramid. And then the second part of your question was about my confidence that we can grow in fiscal year '25. And again, I have tremendous confidence that we can grow in fiscal year end '25 because we have all the basics, all the core basics and building blocks for growth in place. We have this strong base in terms of performance. I'd much rather be a performance brand leaning into Sportstyle than the other way around, right, to be a Sportstyle or dare I say, athleisure brand trying to get into performance. It's 2.5 decades of hard work to get that credibility on the performance side.

So I have tremendous confidence. Again, I'd go back to the relatively low numbers we have in footwear and women's as 2 examples of where we can really see exponential growth. And then a lot of it is putting the additional building blocks in place as it relates to talent, Dave just articulated some of the investments we're making on the systems side. I'm very bullish on our future in 2024 fiscal year 2024 is going to be the year where we get the building blocks in place even further.