Sue Nabi
Coty Inc. (COTY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Filippo. Let me give the mic to Laurent for this part and I can compliment.

Of course. Good morning, Javier, thank you for the question. Indeed, you're right to mention these two elements, which I believe are the two next white space opportunities for our Consumer Beauty business. The first one is indeed makeup opportunity. We believe we have done, let's say, 70% of the job, if I may say. And if you look at CoverGirl, we've fixed the lip category. Today, our lip category under CoverGirl among the fastest growing in the market. We've done the same thing with the eye category.

The two most recent launches from CoverGirl, which are: Yummy Gloss, which is this viral product that is today going to sell something like 6 or 7 times higher than what we have expected; and the upcoming launch, which started in July, which is Cleantopia mascara, that you saw the advertising during the earnings presentations. These are in a way going to consolidate this two-thirds of the work that we have done. Of course, we are doing all the necessary effort to really use the 70% to 75% of A&CP we are spending on this brand that are mainly digital A&CP towards Gen Z, towards advocacy, towards creating viral moments as we've been able to achieve it with Yummy Gloss to take one example.

So the next phase is to fix the face category, which I believe is a category that has been driving the growth of some of our -- one of our competitors to be very direct, is really the face category. And this is inside the cooking right now. So hopefully, once we have the face category joining lip and eyes, the 90%, 95% of CoverGirl will be positioned for the future the way I want this brand to be positioned using modern marketing, of course, mastering advocacy, mastering marketing on TikTok, and all this kind of digital ecosystem that was missing until recently, and that we started to master, I have to say.

So, to answer your part around the shelves, which is an important one, we can confirm that the shelf space of CoverGirl has been stable post spring 2023 resets and is confirmed to be stable for the fall '23 resets. So, any net space that other brands may be discussing is coming from other brands and not from CoverGirl. This is number one.

Number two, and this is a fundamental information that I shared with you already, and it's important to share it again and again is that there are two brands gaining penetration in the U.S., it's CoverGirl and [else] (ph). And CoverGirl's frequency, I have to say is, I would say, 2.5x higher in terms of purchase frequency versus the category and versus key competitors. And this, for me, confirms that these brands positioning, the new communication, the new innovations are strongly resonating with today's consumers.

Last but not least, it's very important to say that, in fact, we are doing two things, while most of our competitors are focusing on one target. CoverGirl is not a Gen Z brand, it's a Gen Z, millennials, Gen X and boomers brand. And we are going to play with these two key targets, the right way adopting the right marketing per target. So it's very important for us to also continue to remain as relevant as ever with Gen X, who are more loyal and who are more spending on this category.

So that's what I will give you in terms of answer when it comes to how we see CoverGirl brand reconstruct that started two years ago.

Now I move to the second part of your question, which is around Brazil, if I'm not wrong. This indeed is something we started to discuss during our Investor Day back in July. We have strong capabilities. We have great capabilities in fragrances. And I'll say a word about this probably later, given the super strong start of some of the new innovation in our Prestige, but we are applying the playbook of creating winning fragrances in both divisions. And we are also applying this in Brazil. So -- and we have also a top-notch fragrance portfolio in mass market. And you're right to mention that Brazil is a big market. It's a $4 billion opportunity.

So, we started the journey over there in April. We are entering in retailers where traditionally, we used to sell our Prestige portfolio. But at the same time, we are also opening opportunities in direct stores, putting our fragrances in the shelves of this kind of channel, which is very new for the Brazilian market, I have to say. So, in total, we started with 2,000 doors with the potential to ramp up, up to 15,000 doors. So, we are still at very early stages of this rollout. But you can imagine that we are super excited about how much this opportunity represents for the Consumer Beauty portfolio, especially given our mass fragrances are highly dilutive to our mass portfolio.

Last part is very quickly, probably on skincare and in Asia. Again, the launch that happened in Asia was the Lancaster Ligne Princiere that started in March, as presented during the earnings presentation. This launch is achieving every milestone we are looking for, be it in terms of ability to create buzz on social media, its ability to meet consumers' highly demanding pace in terms of efficacy, in terms of textures, in terms of scenting, in terms of look and feel, all of these, we have advocacy ratings that are very, very high.

And as we said during the speech and the script of the earnings call, now our job is really to increase the traffic towards the brand. And this has a lot to do with mastering the ecosystem between Red, Douyin, WeChat and all this ecosystem with, of course, creating content and creating the fantastic story behind the brand on Red, taking people to do live-streaming on Douyin and, of course, creating community management into WeChat. So, everything is on track when it comes to our skincare agenda, and we are entering a new phase today, mastering much better than in the past our Chinese digital ecosystem.

And I have to say that the fact that this is a skincare brand, and that's a skincare brand that we own in a way helped us also to have the possibility to play with 360 degrees of the Chinese ecosystem, which has never been the case up to now because makeup and fragrances are not as sophisticated categories as skincare is in this market. So that's also a fantastic school for Coty China, but also for Coty overall globally.

Yeah. Good morning, Anna. So in fact, this announcement we have made yesterday is, first of all, a continuity of a 20 years long-standing relation with Marc Jacobs Fragrances. We've been together -- married together since 20 years. And the outcome of this collaboration is, I have to say, fantastic. During fiscal '23, the second fastest-growing brand of Prestige at Coty was indeed Marc Jacobs, high double-digit growth. And this is really something that is the result of this long-standing collaboration.

We've decided to extend this collaboration in the coming decades, but also we've decided to bring back the highly coveted and cult Marc Jacobs makeup. If you've seen the -- some of the titles of people who have already published around this new collaboration around makeup, there is a lot of cult following for this brand. And this brand is fantastically positioned to do makeup in the area of in the indie, [mid-couture] (ph), which is really where the market is heading to and where you can really find the biggest part of the growth of the market.

If you talk about our own brands, it's a parallel story. This company is the go-to destination for licenses, very long-term licenses. In this case, we are adding a new category which has strengthened our portfolio of color cosmetics, specifically in Prestige, but all our other color cosmetics brands, especially in mass market, our own brands, again, think of CoverGirl, Max Factor, Bourjois or Rimmel to name the four most important ones.

So this is really -- it's an end. You know how I love to work. I love to do and rather than either or rather. It's really this and this at the same time. So, Infiniment Coty is on track. The launch -- the PR launch is going to be in October and we'll hit the first stores, including a global DTC, in Jan 2024. And Lancaster, again, have made the comments around Lancaster. Last but not least, we are opening today the sales of what we do believe in skincare is probably one of the most potent serum of all time behind the Orveda skincare line. This serum is called OmniPotent Concentrate, and it's open to be sold to a longer queue of consumers waiting for this since May today at the end of the day.

Yeah, let me take this part. So indeed, fragrance licenses, some of them are renewed before the renewal period, if I may say, and some of them are renewed earlier, which is a great sign of confidence towards Coty as the leading destination for this fashion brands that are willing to go into beauty, not just fragrances, but also makeup. We've seen this recently also with Marc Jacobs. So that's very important in terms of moat. And again, let me remind the audience that we've renewed and extended and sometimes enriched in terms of categories for contracts recently. This is really also something that I wanted to stress.

Second, it's very important that everyone hears also the fact that there is a momentum today in terms of fashion companies reaching out to Coty to create beauty businesses together. And again, it's very important that we have this ability to make new brands, new territories, new visions of beauty, part of the Coty portfolio. That's something that's very important. There have not been any material changes in licensing terms, this is something I can confirm to you.

And again, it's really a great occasion for me to say how much Coty is seen today as a partner of choice. And again, I welcome any fashion brand willing to enter the beauty industry to partner with Coty, because the ecosystem we're proposing is unparalleled, in fact, in terms of reach, in terms of R&D, in terms of ability to operate multiple categories and in terms of marketing.

And this gives me the occasion to say a few words about one of the launches of the company. They are all important for me, but one is very dear to my heart, which is the one of Burberry Goddess. Burberry Goddess, for me, have a look at this launch, this is the best of Coty know-how in terms of creating, winning users. I've been talking about this since many, many quarters. We are there, finally. It takes time to put in place this kind of methodologies to craft the launch, that is a 5-star launch at this level. To execute it, we started to do this in Travel Retail in July. And now we are expanding globally. And what we are seeing is, in a way, giving a direction or a flavor of what could be the upcoming innovations from Coty in this area, and therefore, for our partners, when it comes to fashion houses. So, this is really something I want to stress during this earnings call.

Good morning, Chris.

Yeah, sure, Chris. So let me take these two elements. I mean, I want to make it very clear that, I mean, volume is absolutely key and definitely. And this is what we are seeing already in the second half of fiscal '23 that the growth is driven by pricing, by mix, but also by volumes, okay? So it's -- and definitely, the model we are building for fiscal '24 and beyond is really a balanced-growth algorithm, which is really the combination of pricing, mix and volume. So, I'm really insisting on this. And we gave very concrete examples, just what we shared. I mean Burberry Goddess, all what we are doing in Consumer Beauty, Yummy Gloss sort of launches. So these are definitely volumes -- additional volumes in our equation. And volumes are also very important, because it's really showing penetration, increasing of market share. And of course, for our factories, our footprint, is also a positive way to absorb the fixed cost. So this is very, very clear in our model.

On your second point, which is gross margin, so first of all, I really want to highlight, I mean, the great landing that we are doing on gross margin. We shared several times that there will be a modest gross margin expansion, fiscal year '23. And this is exactly where we are landing and even with a very good result in Q4. So you see that all the work we are doing on gross margin, despite inflation, has delivered strong results. So, we confirm also that for fiscal '24, there will be also modest gross margin expansion. So gross margin will keep growing. And we also confirm to be in the mid-60%-s by fiscal '25 exactly, as per our mid-term algorithm that we shared more than two years ago.

Now to tell you, indeed, so we highlighted that there will be some phasing, H1 from H2, definitely H1, so big few elements. Number one is that we are expecting -- price inflation is here to stay in H1, as I said. And we have also some, I explained a few times, accounting treatment that inflation COGS are capitalized during four months. So between the moment that we have inflation and the moment it's released in the P&L, there is a lag effect of four months. So that's why we still see this inflation in H1, but there will be some easing in H2, okay? So that's number one.

Number two, also, which is important for you to know, is that last year, due to service-level challenges and also component shortage, we had to make a decision really to reduce gift sets in Prestige. And as you know, I mean -- and this year, in H1, now that we have solved all supply chain issues and component shortage, now we are really back towards the normal share of gift sets in Q1 and Q2. And as you know, gift sets gross margin is a few points lower than the standard scale. So this is also something which is explaining the phasing. But it's absolutely in control. It's also supported by business decision and fully embedded in our fiscal year '24 algorithm and mid-term algorithm.

Yeah, good morning, Linda. Let me take this question. So in fact, what we are seeing in Hainan is that our shelf space for Lancaster has not at all been affected by all the pressures we are seeing. We are just doing the job step-by-step. In fact, we don't want to open a massive number of doors and -- while at the same time, creating the business model of success of this brand. So, we are doing this very carefully in terms of investment, be it capital investment, media investment, et cetera. And therefore, in Hainan and also in Mainland China, we are making the productivity of the doors that we have opened so far as high as possible before starting to expand the number of doors and the expansion of the shelf space.

When it comes to the other brands that you have mentioned, which are Gucci and Burberry, there was no impact from what's happening in Hainan. Today, these two brands that were doing great on makeup, are recovering, thanks to the back of makeup consumption in the country. They were growing very fast on the makeup area. This has been, in a way, limited during the lockdowns and the fact that since the opening of the country beginning of calendar '23, it's chasing step-by-step in this area.

But I wouldn't say that the -- what's happening behind, I guess, that you are referring to the [dilute] (ph), et cetera, et cetera, is affecting our brands, because we are not exposed to this kind of phenomenon, given our small size, but also given how much we are willing to pay a very strong attention to preserving the brand equity of the brands we have into Coty.

Yes. Thank you, Mark. So, I mean, just to make it very clear, and again, so we are positioning our fiscal year '24 top-line at the top of the guidance and really is higher in H1, so it's 8% to 10%. And as I shared, it's absolutely confirmed by a strong start of fiscal '24. And this is built, yes, with the pricing carryover. We continue also mix improvement, and it also includes volume growth. And we shared, again, some very concrete example, Burberry Goddess is a very obvious case. So, this is really a part of it.

Now looking ahead, and I said it is -- we are really making sure that starting H2 fiscal '24, definitely that our growth algorithm is really well balanced between pricing, mix and volume. So this is really the combination of three. So, once we are out of this really high inflation period with high pricing, we enter more a normalized model in terms of growth.

And the second part of your question, our algorithm, our methodology doesn't change. So it's really definitely -- and as I shared, we continue this All-in-to-Win program. So, we announced that next year, we will deliver $100 million savings, and in fiscal '25, $75 million. So the objective of this productivity plan is we need to continue to improve our gross margin, to optimize our SG&A, and then to reinvest to support all our strategic initiatives. So concretely, what does it mean? It means that in terms of A&CP, we are -- now we are at the level of the high 20%-s, and this is really a level that we are going to keep and reallocate in a very perfect manner, always focusing on [AOI] (ph) on both divisions and on all the new initiatives that we are launching.

Laurent, if you allow me, clean beauty is the only area where consumers, in all the studies that are published by us, but also by any company studying consumers' mood, et cetera, is the only category where people -- clean and sustainable beauty, where people are ready to spend more money on. And that's very important, because they believe they are doing the right choice for the planet and for them and for their skin health, by the way.

So, I think we can close the call after this question. If you allow me, Laurent, everyone, I would like to do some closing remarks.

The first one is also to clarify again, if needed, how we see the white space opportunities phasing. It's very important that you see that the immediate white space opportunities for this company are female fragrances, ultra-premium fragrances, Prestige cosmetics, Travel Retail [indiscernible], Brazil, if you want. And then there are the mid-term opportunities, which are skincare and China. It's very important that this is, in a way, understood by all of us and all of you who are watching Coty.

And last but not least, I wanted to say that we are very proud for the second year of double-digit growth. I have to say that this is really a great reason for -- pride for all Coty teams around the world. And we are very, very happy to see Q1 starting very strongly.

Thank you very much.