Tamara Lundgren
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (RDUS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Well, what is really driving the continued tight supply of scrap are a couple of things, lower manufacturing activity, lower construction and demolition activity and just the slowing economy generally. Combined are just higher collection cost for scrap as inflation pressures have hit suppliers and interest rates are obviously higher than they've been in the past.

So we are projecting a continuation of these tighter supply conditions until we start to see some changes in the economy and the things that we're looking for is increased PMI, i.e. increased manufacturing activity, resolution of the UAW strike, which will -- should resolve both ferrous and -- or should help to improve both ferrous and nonferrous supply flows.

Clearly stabilization in ferrous prices and nonferrous prices for that matter, I think will help supply flows as well and obviously help margin compression. And then lastly in 2024, we are expecting to see a higher flow a higher pace of funds coming through from the US infrastructure bill.

Sure. Let me start at a high level and then Stefano why don't you add some specifics. At a high level, it's the same dynamics that we're speaking about before, which is manufacturing activity, as well as the UAW strike has really impacted nonferrous production as well.

So we see some -- we expect that that will resolve over time. And so both flows and prices should stabilize and get back on that positive trend of meeting this higher demand due to the transition to low-carbon technologies whether it's electric vehicles or solar or wind, for example, all of these low carbon technologies require more metals and particularly more non-ferrous metals than the technologies that they're replacing. So, we're really looking for those economic trends to come through and those funds from the U.S. infrastructure bills to start to flow in 2024. Stefano?

Thank you.

Thank you. And thank you everyone for your time today. We look forward to speaking with you again in January when we report our first quarter results. In the interim, stay safe and stay well.