Aaron Saak
Crane NXT, Co. (CXT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. I think a simple guide here it's going to be, roughly 40-60 Matt, that's going to be both top line and bottom line.

Yes. I think it's positive on many fronts, Matt. It's been broad-based. That's to Christina's point, 14 new denominations. So while we did win a materially significant order in the fourth quarter, that's where you see the backlog growing up to 26%, as we exited the year. We've had a lot of wins through the course of the year, and that's where currency in the international business really exceeded our expectations particularly, as we exited the year.

I think RAPID Vision, is just an outstanding story for us. It talks to our technology leadership, the continued evolution of this portfolio. And when we think about new currencies getting designed with the technology, just a reminder, that I know you know and many others that it takes several months to years to go through the design process for new currencies. So that started for us adding slightly before the launch of the product. We have a few central banks evaluating that technology, and looking to potentially design it in to their next currency. And obviously, we have to wait and let them announce that at the appropriate time. But again, that design to launch period is months to years, depending on a particular central bank.

Thanks, Matt.

Good morning, Damian. How are you?

Yes. Sure, Damian. Let me take few moments on that and Christina can add in as well. Again I think when -- as I said in my remarks a few minutes ago, we believe the full year guidance is appropriately risk-adjusted and we're very confident with that. And I think the way you asked the question is appropriate if you got to break down the analysis into some of the constituent parts. So when I think of the currency business as Christina just mentioned, we're looking at mid single-digit growth there. Again the margin rate of that business a little bit less. So that creates a natural mix headwind inside of currency alluding to the question you've raised.

So you can think of it as just as international is growing at mid single digits. There's a mix down effect naturally in currency where the US government given the shutdown and what we see in terms of their volume forecast we're assuming that we have flat volumes in a similar mix that we had last year in terms of the denominations. So that's really the story in currency. Again long-term on the US government as we exit 2024 and get to the launch of '26 a fantastic story for the business.

Now in CPI as I mentioned we expect all parts of the portfolio ex-gaming in aggregate to be growing to mid-single digits. Now again gaming with that said is typically a higher-margin part of our portfolio. So we do have a mix headwind there and that's what's really driving the margin question that you alluded to and the range we've set in the guidance. But again, we see gaming with the visibility we have into our customers with a lot of confidence that the natural inventory burn down is going to complete the cycle in Q3 orders return back and we exit at mid single-digit growth in gaming which should give us some improvements as we look ahead into 2025. So that's really the mix.

I would just reiterate to the question Matt asked that because of these phenomena with the US government and gaming in 2024 the phasing of our revenue will be a little bit different than we normally see in the company. And again I think that 40-60 is a good high-level guide. So hopefully that helps Damian.

Thank you.

Thanks, Bob.

Sure Bob. In gaming, why don't I, again, break these down, as you've asked the question market-by-market, because there are some important differences? Gaming, again, I'd say from a forecast perspective or an outlook, we believe this is appropriately risk-adjusted again, so that we can continue to do exactly what we say we're going to do each quarter and through the course of 2024.

I want to bring it back at least to the gaming market, which is an important part here of our thesis, which is, it's very healthy. Casinos continue to be healthy and our OEM customers continue to be healthy. We see this as a market that's growing even in 2024, anywhere between low-single-digit to mid-single-digit plus, highly dependent on the geography. And of course, we service a global market. So, that gives us a lot of confidence that this underlying market is healthy, and we see that in both again, the casinos all the way through the OEMs.

Now, we've also done a lot of channel checking, Bob, as you can imagine, and we are very confident we're maintaining strong market share, both in our hardware, software and services offering. Just as a reminder, we had a major competitor that lacked certifications and was largely out of this market in 2022 and for a good part of 2023. They're back in the market, but I think as a testament to our team at CPI, we gained market share through this period. And so, we have a very sticky customer base and a higher set of installations on the floors of these casinos. So again, we feel confident in our market position.

Now when it gets into the visibility to our customers' inventory, we spent a lot of work here, both in December and January, reassessing as we exited the year and as customers have started the new year, on what their order forecasts are going to be. We sell the vast majority of our equipment through OEMs. And there's only a few OEMs globally at scale. So, it's a short list of customers that we have very close relationships with. And that allows us to get very deep into their inventory levels, customer-by-customer. And that's where I'd say on average, we see six months of inventory above the normal holding that they would ascribe to.

So again, I think we have a very good visibility into that, and knowing their order rates and their forecast for the year, how they're going to draw down that inventory, that's what gives us confidence that we're going to see a return to order rates as we get into Q4 and exit the year back in a mid-single-digit growth dynamic in gaming. So Bob, I'll pause there on gaming and then I'm happy to talk Retail as well.

Yes, let me go to that. I think Retail is a different market, but a dynamic where we're seeing improvements as we exited last year and as we're already starting off here in 2024. Again, I'd go back to the thesis on the underlying market, which we see is very healthy, driven by our customers needing increased automation and still battling issues with labor scarcity. And so, we don't think those change in the next months or years ahead, and that gives a tailwind to this market.

And when you put that in context right, 2023 had a few items that are not repeatable that we expect will play out in 2024. It starts with our OEM business, which was softer than we expected in 2023. But remember, some of these OEMs were going through their own transitions, very significant transitions in 2023, managing cost and inventory. And we see improvement already in that OEM business as we start 2024 and it's meeting our expectations. We also saw some pushout of projects in the second half and in discussions with customers, we believe and have confidence those are going to be coming back in 2024. So I think a different dynamic for us in the retail market in 2024 and already meeting our expectations as we start the year and that gives us confidence in this outlook.

Yeah. Thanks, Bob. I think we're on the early stages here of this. As you said, it's a decade-plus program, right? It's going to take 10 years just to launch the new bills. But we've been already actively working on it, as you know with the BEP. So 2024 has this again very well planned set of shutdowns that we've been planning for with the BEP for well over a year. We're in the middle of one now and we'll institute the next one at the end of the fourth quarter again, just to allow both us and the BEP time to make their necessary upgrades and our upgrades, qualify the new product coming off of that papermaking equipment. And of course, in Q2 through 3Q, produce the product that they need to satisfy their demand. So that's going as expected on track on target on budget.

What that means for 2024 as I alluded to earlier is, a headwind particularly in the first half of the year and that will moderate. And then again, we'll have a shutdown likely in the latter part of Q4. We don't really see the benefit then Bob of the new series, until we get into production, full production of that product. And that first one is the $10 that goes into public circulation sometime in 2026. So I think I would frame it and model it as we start to see assuming again, increased technology density on those bills and uplift in margins that starts to occur more in the 2026 time frame. Again, we can't and we're in no position now to announce any significant announcements on the design of the currency. That's left to the US Department of Treasury to make those announcements and they'll do that at the appropriate time.

But I think if you go back to that slide that I referenced earlier in the presentation, today only the US $100 bill has our leading micro-optics technology and we believe that's an opportunity as each of these new bills gets introduced to increase generally all types of new technology on the US government notes. And so, I wouldn't think that this is modeled then episodically, as I think the term you used, but more continuously as new bills get released, we naturally mix up the business starting in 2026 through 2034.

Yeah. Thanks, Isaac. I really appreciate that question. So we continue to be very optimistic and confident in the position we have in product authentication. We see that as a market in general, that's growing at mid-single-digit plus.

And it's very global in its growth rate. And we think those core drivers of the need for more anti-counterfeiting protection whether that's in Physical products or Digital products will continue for the foreseeable future. I think that's as we'd say a pretty straightforward got to believe, in this market.

In terms of our own business, again, we continue to win new accounts leading with our Micro-Optics Technology. But with that said, and to the question you raised, we really see M&A in this area as an accelerator of our strategy where we can leverage our very strong technology leadership in the Physical products with other capabilities that grow Crane NXT.

So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, our pipeline has grown significantly over the last year. It's matured also, in terms of where we're at in that cultivation status. And we feel very confident and on track, as we exit 2023 that we will be in a position to announce our first acquisition in 2024.

As I've said many times, that first acquisition is more important than any. We want to make sure, it's on strategy. Focused on secure detect and authenticate. We want to make sure we're good owners of the business. And we can add value, particularly through the deployment of CBS. And we want to generate a strong return.

And nothing has changed there, from what I've said over the last several quarters. That's a double-digit ROIC by year five. And making sure we're maintaining our leverage below three or if above three, we're able to draw that down very, very quickly based on our strong free cash flow. So again, feel on track and very confident we're in a good position as we head into 2024.

Thank you, Isaac.

No, that's directionally correct, Damian. That's -- I'd say, mid-single-digit growth as Christina alluded to in the international business, but then the headwind in the first half due to the shutdown from the US government.

I think you have that right. Exactly, Damian. We're going to hit tougher comps year-over-year in the first half on CPI, where gaming was still at a very elevated level in the first half of last year. So your logic there is correct.

I would answer that that we feel very confident in our long-standing relationship with the BEP. But as I said before, we're not going to be in any position to comment on the new redesign until after the treasury has announced that redesign. And I would expect that will come sometime in late '25. Again, that's more their time line than ours on the announcement. But I think you can appreciate, we can't comment on that until it's actually announced by the US government.

Well, I think look at the balance of it too, Matt. I think directionally, we're going to have a tough comp in these headwinds on orders in gaming. That's roughly 25% of the portfolio, offset by the other 75% that's still growing at roughly mid-single digits. So, that's the balance of the math. Now, I would tell you the first half of CPI, when you put that and balance it together probably isn't quite as you alluded to. And then of course, the second half, we come out back on track with this mid-single-digit growth for the second half of the year.

I think you can rest assured and I think it's true to our culture, and how we've operated the business and we're obviously, taking actions and we've already taken some of those actions to fortify the margins of the business, so that of course, we maintain a good, healthy cost discipline and we invest as we grow and we've adjusted some of the cost structure of CPI to reflect these headwinds. So certainly, I wouldn't think it's quite as drastic as maybe you're thinking.

Thanks, Matt.

All right. Thank you, operator. Well, it's hard to believe, but we are just 50 days away from the first anniversary of the launch of Crane NXT. It's a year that is flown by and been filled, with enormous accomplishments by our team. And so I want to again, thank all the NXT team members from across the world for their hard work in 2023, to make the launch of Crane NXT so successful. And I am extremely confident, that 2024 will be an equally exciting year for the company as we start our second year as a public company. So thank you again, to everyone who joined us today for your questions, and I hope you all have a great rest of your week.