Aaron Jagdfeld
Generac Holdings Inc. (GNRC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, George.

It's kind of holding that new and higher baseline assumption that we talked about. In the absence of kind of power outage activity being above the baseline, we guide with it in line. So, I think in the prepared remarks, we even said we don't include any assumptions for major outages, and that could include -- that could drive additional opportunities, both with home standby and portable generators actually.

But the assumption, I think York is right, with in kind of big ticket discretionary items in environment where rates remain somewhat elevated here, we think that consumer demand could remain kind of flattish and kind of at that baseline level.

Hi Mike.

Hey, Dave.

Yes. Thanks, Dave. So as we said, kind of in line with our expectations, we were getting very close to kind of wiping out that field inventory. We'll call it an abnormal excess field inventory. Look, this has been a painful process over the last six quarters. We overproduced ahead of the market demand, got ahead of ourselves, and we just -- we've been working that down.

We were very close to -- we saw kind of normal order pattern starting to return in Q3 even and into Q4 for sure. And then we believe that most of that is going to be gone as we exit Q1. You're always going to have pockets markets, channels, customers that have field inventory levels that are probably higher than normal. That has always existed. If you don't get an event in a market or you've got maybe a channel that's underperforming to other channels. I mean, you can have that happen, and that's just normal cadence. So I would say that the big excess field inventory level, that thing we've been talking about here for 6 quarters non-stop. We believe, is going to be largely gone by the end of Q1.

Good morning, Brian.

Yeah, sure, Brian. So a couple of things. We saw IHCs actually soften in Q4, and that really largely aligns with the power outage environment was well-below the baseline average. So in fact, it was the lowest Q4. I think in our prepared remarks, we said since 2015. So pretty low environment for outages.

And that fit with a good chunk of the second half, right? We didn't see a lot of activity, certainly no major activity in throughout the year last year. But in spite of that, IHCs were up on the year, total count so in spite of the softness in the fourth quarter. And probably more importantly, January, we got off to a pretty hot start. There was quite a bit of weather localized, quite a bit of outage activity.

And then more importantly, I think one thing that we are starting to see, which is really interesting in the category, normally, the category has traded on outage activity. But what we're also seeing is evidence now in markets where outages haven't taken place but where media reports and other information is flowing into the market around potential outages, right? So these notifications of power shortfalls that some utilities had to send out in January, because of the extreme cold weather that actually drove IHC activity. Without actually having -- it didn't really result in a trendous amount of outage activity, but it drove IHC activity.

So it's kind of -- I don't want to say there's a disconnect now, but looking purely at outage activity is probably not the only way to look at IHC, which are -- that's our proxy for sales leads. I would just -- one other kernel to this. We also continue to see a modest improvement in close rates in the fourth quarter for IHC.

So we've talked about this recovery story on close rates. We kind of had assumed that close rates were going to flatten out after Q2 last year. And we saw that initially, but then we've actually started to see some of those close rates improve. And that's encouraging because I think it speaks to the continued not only interest in the product, but obviously, the conversion of prospects into buyers.

So I think those are encouraging signs. There are green shoots, if you will, and lead us to have, I think, gives us anyway confidence in certainly gives us confidence in the guide that we gave this morning around the consumer power products.

Yes, that's correct.

Yeah. Thanks, Chris. I don't have the pacing each month for the quarter, to be honest. I just all add -- you're correct, we did say on the Q3 call that October, we saw some improvement. It was -- it's pretty -- it was modest, but we like that it was improving, not going the other way.

For the quarter, it was up again modestly. So I think you can assume that it was -- it didn't drop off because that would have set us negative for the quarter. So again, I don't have the pacing, apologize for each month of the quarter. But the assumption to your question, the assumption for 2024, we are assuming close rates kind of continue on that modest improvement pace. We've got a long way to go to get back to the kind of pre-pandemic or that kind of pandemic-induced high, if you will. We kind of hit that. I think the peak, Chris, was, we say, Q3 of 2020 is where we kind of peaked out. And then we saw things really fall off as our lead times extended and now we've been in that recovery mode.

The good news is, we're seeing that recovery. I do think kind of pursuant to my answer to the previous question, about -- or the additional color from the previous question about we've got more people coming into the sales funnel that maybe aren't experiencing outages, but they're concerned about outages and they're hearing more about it. Either because of media reports or other things or maybe notifications from their local utility that they could be at risk of an outage with cold temperatures if there -- if they don't immediately turn off or reduce their power consumption. Those are scary things.

When you're a homeowner and you get that text message, and it's zero degrees outside, you need to reduce your energy consumption immediately or you could be facing blackouts. I mean that's -- those things send people on a hunt for solutions. And that's when we see and we are seeing evidence that people are coming into the sales funnel. I will say that, it's going to be a longer conversion cycle for those homeowners if they haven't experienced an outage. So we're aware of that. And we think that, that could lead to some -- could take a little bit longer than for close rates to really truly recover to that level as a result of just more people coming into the sales funnel and investigating the category.

We don't necessarily think that's a bad thing. We just think that it means that it's even more important that our nurturing efforts and our efforts to continue to engage homeowners who have interest in the product category that we remain very diligent in our efforts there. So again, close rates, the assumption, kind of a modest improvement over the course of 2024.

Yes. I think, Jerry, just -- just one last comment on that. We have been investing heavily for the future here. We think those investments are both necessary and I think improve our odds of being successful as the market continues to change. There is just a ream of evidence around the fact that the grid is changing. I talked about it in my prepared remarks. We talked to a lot of utility and grid operators. They are -- there is a significant challenge ahead, as we continue to retire traditional thermal assets on the supply side in favor of renewables, which is -- I think we all agree, we want to decarbonize the grid as much as we can.

The challenge, of course, is those renewables are intermittent in nature. And storage costs are still high. And large-format utility storage is difficult to balance out with the cost of building those renewable plants. You couple that with this -- what we're now seeing, which is an increase on the demand side, which we haven't seen in decades.

The demand side has been relatively muted. Retail electric sales have been relatively muted over the last couple of decades as maybe some of the growth has been offset, some of the either population growth or just growth in some of the power usage devices has been offset by efficiency gains, but that's changing. And we're seeing the electrification trends again, around cooking around cleaning around heating and cooling, certainly around transportation, super early innings there.

But it's creating these incredible opportunities for mismatch of supply and demand. And in particular, as more severe weather and volatile weather patterns pick up, that is putting dramatic stress on the grid. And so I don't -- again, we couldn't be in a better place at a better time with the products and solutions that we've assembled here. We have a lot of work to do, obviously, to deploy those to great effect, to build out these ecosystems for homeowners and business owners. We're working very hard on that. And the work is the investment level we're talking about here, and that is what York was referring to, certainly in the -- throughout the year, 350 to 400 basis points dilution to EBITDA margin.

For Energy Technologies.

Yes. Good point.

Good morning.

Yes, absolutely. And then the idea, as we laid out -- and we're still on our path here. But the idea, as we laid out in September at the Investor Day is that we would be at breakeven. We would start to achieve breakeven levels in that business in 2026. So you will start to see an abatement of that dilution impact. It's just not going to happen this year. So it really starts in 2025 and it accelerates.

Cut in half by 2026, right? Exactly.

Yes. So, let me unpack that. So it was mostly portable gens in Q4, again, with a really soft power outage environment and no major events.

And a tough comp last year.

Correct. Yes. And the European side of that as well, to York's point, the Russia-Ukraine war, they just they haven't really -- some of the energy concerns, security concerns haven't come to a pass there. And as a result, we saw -- we've seen portable gens really come off and also tour products were soft.

We said -- we called this out throughout the year last year, we had a tough year with our tour products business. So, that was also soft. But that was offset by 10% growth in HSP and some growth also in the clean energy business.

On the margin question, I'll just -- I'll touch on the price piece of that real quick, and then York can kind of round out the discussion. But it's small. I mean we got a little bit of price in there this year, just to cover some of the additional costs that we've seen around the investments that we've had to make as we scale the business, but they were quite modest, I would say, in terms of price. There's no big price. So the rest of it--

Yes. Thanks, Donovan. So yes, I think it would be good to maybe spend a few minutes on the C&I side. We -- that business has been on an absolute tear over the last three years, CAGR close to 30%. It's a $1.5 billion asset for us today globally. It is a truly global business. And in fact, we have a lot of long-term conviction there. As evidenced by we broke ground on a new plant here in Wisconsin just here in the fourth quarter because we see the long-term need for additional capacity as the market grows.

Specifically, we have always seen certain cycles in the C&I markets. We've been serving the -- I'll start with telecom kind of work my way through the walk here on kind of the three different areas we called out specifically in the prepared remarks. But I'll start with telecom.

It's been an important vertical for us. Historically, around 10% of C&I. We had a really strong year -- a really strong year in 2022, with telecom, we started to see that soften up in the back half of this year. We called that earlier this year. So it kind of fell in line with what we saw. But I think we were more hopeful that it would rebound more quickly here in 2024, and right now, all evidence based on kind of -- you can look at any of the transcripts for many of the major wireless carriers. We're a Tier 1 supplier to all of them.

They've all kind of cut their CapEx guide year-over-year by roughly 10%, call it. So I think that's kind of a proxy for what we're seeing to some degree in telecom. But we've seen this movie before. We've been serving that market for 40 years. And they tend to cycle on and off of CapEx. Some of it is the pacing of the build-out of the network. Some of it is they're balancing other capital priorities, sometimes M&A, sometimes other things. So we've seen that before. That will come back, absolutely. And we feel like that's just a cycle we're going to get through here in 2024.

The other one is the rental accounts, the national rental accounts in particular. Again, we're a major supplier to all of them. And you've seen a couple of the rental customers come out, rental accounts come out and say that their CapEx is going to be lower year-over-year. So we're kind of -- we're kind of working off of that, those types of guidances. And in particular, there's been a pretty heavy refleeting cycle over the last few years in the categories that we supply, in particular, in Power & Light. So where you've got temporary power or temporary lighting, those are the products we manufacture and put into those channels.

They've gone through a heavy refi leading cycle. And now they've got to wait for the utilization rates to kind of get to where they need them to be before they start kind of purchasing new equipment. So again, we've seen that cycle about three times in our ownership and our participation in that market over the last decade plus years. So that's just cycle.

And then the last one is beyond standby. That is an area that's been very interesting. It's grown very quickly. We have customers like in channel rock [ph] in there. They're not the only ones. We've got others that we sell a lot of these generators and in particular, on the gas side, where we would sell a typical gas generator for emergency backup, customers are finding that there's additional utility and value that they can deploy that generator in perhaps a grid support type program, right? So time of use program or some other kind of demand response type program, and they can help monetize the asset in a way that they couldn't before. They had to think of it purely as a kind of a -- it was really a disaster response type purchase before, kind of an insurance policy. And so not something that would necessarily create a return year after year, right? I mean it obviously would give you a return, if you experience an outage, that's infrequent use. This is a way now to -- as natural gas prices have stayed low, electricity prices continue to rise, that has been a very interesting growth opportunity. I still relatively small in the context of everything we do, but it's been growing very quickly, and we've called it out over the last couple of years. Underpinned by Generac as an important customer there. But also data centers, these are smaller gas gens, so they're used more in edge data centers, not necessarily hyperscale.

Hyperscale data centers are still going to be using very large diesel gens that are manufactured by our competitors. We're not in that business today. So we're really serving more of the edge data center markets or those data center operators that want to use those assets in a monetized fashion. You wouldn't be able to do that economically with diesel. You can do it economically with gas, but it takes a lot more gens to get to the same level of protection, because the density, the power density of each generator for gas is lower than it is for diesel. That's just a -- that's a physics thing. You can't get around that.

But that's -- it's still a great market opportunity. We just -- what we called out this morning in the prepared remarks there, is with a higher interest rate environment, we're just seeing those projects get pushed out the time lines, right? So we think it's temporary. We think it will return when interest rates kind of return to a more normal level. Do we know when that is? No. I think you listened to economists and we see a lot of them and hear a lot of them, it's anywhere between zero rate cuts and 12 this year. I don't know. Take your -- pick your number, but we're watching that. We're seeing kind of what goes on in that environment, but we do think that as rates come down, that obviously changes, I think, the -- not only the economics around those projects, but shouldn't bring some of those projects that have been delayed back into the mix.

Yes. Thanks, Kash. So with respect to the telecon rental cycles, just kind of how we've seen that historically, they play out in like four to six quarters generally is kind of how it plays out. There can be unique situation we had, as an example, when consolidation has happened historically in the telecom industry, an acquisition of Sprint by T-Mobile, that kind of thing or merger, those types of situations. Those can be more unique. Those -- whenever there's major acquisitions, that usually creates a pause in CapEx as the carriers do their integration activities, and they try and rationalize what they've acquired in terms of the assets and the networks and how they want to deploy that going forward from a strategy standpoint. But typically, four to six quarters. And similarly, on the rental side, those refleeting cycles can be a year or two, depending on the category, depending on the customer, depending on the market.

Sometimes they're influenced in oil and gas, as oil and gas prices go up, that can mean better utilization of the equipment in certain regions, where they're used in those applications. And so the timing can vary, but I would say pretty reliably. Historically, we've seen four to six quarters. The beyond standby -- sorry.

Really good point. Yes, we tend to see them while their capital spending, their purchase orders can be, as York said, it can be pretty abrupt both on and off. So we watch that very closely. One of the reasons, we're expanding capacity in C&I, the range of product, we're aimed at actually is what we would refer to as our midrange product, which really goes after that telecom market and some of that temporary power market for the rental markets as well. It's kind of the mid-range products.

And that's where we see -- we are absolutely the strongest manufacturer there in North America in terms of our share and our aggressive stance with these customers. We have an outsized share with these segments, which is maybe why we're getting hurt a little bit more than perhaps some of our competitors in some of the -- in C&I in 2024.

Some of our competitors are a little more focused on the hyperscale data centers. As I said before, we don't have products there. So I think some of the way we're looking at the markets in 2024, maybe differ from some of our competitors as a result.

To answer your question on kind of what interest rate level kind of impacts the beyond standby market, we kind of saw projects starting to kind of elongate in the cycle. It's new to us. So we haven't been through a rate a higher rate environment there with that product category, so it's new. So we've got a lot of learning cycles there. We're trying to get under our belt. So I can't give you an exact rate, because the one thing we do know is that every project pencils out differently in every market.

It really depends on the local utility costs in the market. It depends on the use case of the products in a particular market, the end customer, the project size, there are just a ton of factors. So I would tell you that I don't know that there's like a specific interest rate level where we could say, we called it being cooling off and vice versa, a specific interest rate level where we would say, if we get to 3.5% that it will turn back on. I think a lot of that's just going to depend on economics improving in particular markets, and there's just a ton of factors that go into each one.

Yes. Thanks, Joe. Good questions, all of those. I think -- so on the DC generator question, that was a very small product that we launched a couple of years ago. We didn't see a ton of receptivity to it. It really was aimed at people who truly wanted to be unplugged from the grid, be isolated, independent from the grid. And it's a small host of customers.

What we actually think is probably a better opportunity going forward is to take our existing AC product, AC generator products in an AC-coupled environment and allow the generator to act as a as a battery charger through an AC coupling as opposed to a DC.

So, it's just -- it's a little bit -- it's not quite as efficient, but it allows us to leverage the AC generator platform, which in terms of our cost structure, is, frankly, just -- it's just better because we just -- we have scale there, we can offer better value to customers, even though we might be taking away a little bit of value in terms of the AC generators are a little bit louder. They maybe use a little -- consume a little more fuel, but not materially. So, that kind of direction we're headed strategically there is kind of moving away from the DC generator product to the AC generators, but it's a really small part of our product line.

The broader question, and you're asking kind of an AC coupling, we have AC coupling capabilities today with the Pika system. We can take the battery as a stand-alone with the Pika inverter, we can AC couple it to competitors' inverters. That's not the most efficient architecture, so as we introduce new products later this year, the next-generation storage products, we're going to improve the capability for AC coupling and make that a more, I'll call it, a better experience, a more sophisticated experience, a lower cost experience going forward.

And then of course, that sets us up nicely as we go forward with the microinverter products into 2025. And we're going to continue to offer the Pika products. I mean there are -- if you're doing a clean sheet implementation, we still believe that DC coupling is the most efficient -- round trip efficient way to do that. And so we think there's a place in the architecture for that system, at least for now. But as we roll micro-inverters out and as we continue to build out our strategy and have success, I think the market will tell us directionally where we need to go.

I think you, in particular, pointed out trying to support both architectures going forward is a heavy load to do, and we would probably tend to agree with you on that. But again, we've got a long way to go before we're kind of proficient in the AC coupled solutions with the micro inverter solutions. There's some very capable products in market today, and it's taken us a long time to get to market because we are going to have a product that we're proud to put our name on, and that will stand the test of time from a reliability standpoint for our customers.

And we're working through that. It's part of the big investment that we've been talking about, this 350 to 400 basis point drag. It's a piece of that on EBITDA margins, but we're committed to it. We think that there's a huge opportunity for us to be successful in that going forward.

Yes, absolutely. Great question. And we've had some eye-popping increases over the last couple of years in dealer counts. 2023 was a more muted year, right? We kind of flatlined in 2023. Part of that is, I think, the large increase that we saw a little over 2,000 dealers being added in the years leading up to 23%, you've got, I think, as you would imagine, you've got a process there that we -- our dealer count, by the way, is on a net basis, right? So -- and we basically -- we don't count a dealer for the purposes of that account if they haven't bought anything from us in a 12-month period. So we're maybe a little bit hard on ourselves in the way we think about dealer counts and the way we talk about it.

If you were to actually look at the total number of dealers in our network, it's more than 8,700. But the 10,000 is a target on a net basis and we are still targeting that. The headwinds to that this year, in particular, where I think just the kind of rollover of some of the ads that we had, we still had a lot of really nice gross adds to the dealer count. So we're bringing new dealers in -- but we -- as we call them, we call them dark doors. When a dealer hasn't bought from us in 12 months, we put them in that dark door category, and that is an offset to any gross adds that we have. So it's kind of churn, if you will. There's a churn that happens there.

We had more churn in 2023, churn of a lot of those dealers that were added over the last couple of years. That also happens when you have kind of softer power outage environments, which certainly, as we talked about Q4 being a softer environment, that's a headwind to adding dealers, it's tough to get people interested in the category if the demand isn't there necessarily, right? So we saw in-home consultations drop-off in Q4. So those things present headwinds.

I think longer-term, as we've looked at this, we built this from basically zero, 20 years ago to 8,700 today to get to that 10,000, we're deploying an army of people that are going out there and engaging with primarily electrical contractors, but we've started to open the aperture on that to also include HVAC contractors.

One interesting trend that I think many people have probably noted is you're seeing kind of a consolidation of kind of home services businesses. So electrical contractors getting into the HVAC business or vice versa or into plumbing or into home automation. Kind of this broadening of the suite of services that a contracting business will offer.

It's giving us a nice opportunity to get introduced to new kind of cohorts in the contracting business. And then on top of that, I would tell you that bringing Ecobee into the fold, they have upwards of 14,000 HVAC contracting relationships just with the 3.5 million homes that they put devices into and that is kind of a really important kind of feeding ground for us in terms of a bench, if you want to think of it that way, where we can add and bring new dealers in to sell to. So working all of those pads, I'm very confident we're going to get to 10,000 as the category continues to expand in the years ahead. So we haven't kind of put a pin on the date that's going to happen, but it's definitely going to happen as the category continues to grow.

Yes, it's a great question. I think in terms of infrastructure, obviously, anything that moves the needle there will certainly help shorten the cycle, kind of off cycle for the rental equipment for sure. The telecom cycle, I think, is going to play out. Some of that is it's kind of the installation bandwidth that those network kind of operators have to build out, like the speed at which they can build out their networks. There is some -- we ran into some headwinds there with some specific customers just being able to kind of keep pace with installations according to their schedules that they had originally set for themselves. We were giving them product according to the schedules. You could probably say, okay, maybe there's some field inventory there as a result. We're not really calling it that way because it's not really a business we talk about inventory being carried for, but that's somewhat the issue there with maybe one or two of those customers, but I think that cycle -- I don't know if there's much we can do or that we would see to point to kind of that cycle accelerating. I think it's just going to have to play out the way that it plays out. But I think, again, the C&I cycles we've seen this movie before. So it doesn't really worry us.

The visibility question is a good one. We -- unfortunately, because these are big customers that kind of in our world, they wheel big pencils, right? They've got -- that's probably a dated term now, but they can write big, big people. They can write big POs or they can stop writing big POs and we get forecasts from them and we listen to the same things that others listen to in terms of their CapEx guidance because that obviously is the best proxy that we can use and we have as much dialogue with them as we can about what are their build-out plans for networks and what are their build-out plans for fleet when it comes to the rental customers. And we know, we have some visibility in the pipeline for beyond standby projects as we're quoting them. But unfortunately, visibility, it's probably the weakest area of visibility for us in terms of our C&I business.

When you look at the strength we called out in C&I which is offsetting some of this weakness and won't offset all of it, obviously, because we're saying C&I is going to be down for the year 10%. But offsetting that, our -- we call it our IDC, our independent distribution network is we continue to see growth there. In fact, in some of the distribution partners, we actually have acquired a number of them over the last several years. And that's given us really clear insight and really good visibility actually into some local markets. And that is much more of a quotation business. And so we have, I think, much better visibility in that part of the business on C&I, but not as much, unfortunately, in some of these national account customers that can be I think, a lot more volatile in their order patterns.

They have put a cycle in the LRP exactly.

Yes. Thanks, Keith. And sorry to get you in here at the end. I made you wait, 1.5 hours. But yes, the interest rate, actually, we've said this a couple of times, I think as we talk through this, I don't know if we've talked about it publicly as much, but it's not a high -- the home standby category, in particular, is not a highly interest rate-sensitive category specifically. Now obviously, the impacts, the higher rates have on the macroeconomic environment be the job security issues for people or kind of other challenges with maybe around the way they feel about the way people feel about spending money on large ticket purchases that does have an impact kind of on the margins, but...

It's not a highly financed purchase, oddly enough. Now that said, we do have a third-party financing program through Synchrony, which has been a great program. It grew like almost 50% last year. So we are seeing more evidence of people using finance. But then when you peel the onion back, the number one thing that we see people using is the 18-month same as cash. So -- we don't think that -- we think that that's not necessarily evidence they're just deferring their payment

That doesn't cost me I think they're going to use somebody else's money for that 1.5 years. So I don't think that all indications are that -- and you look at the kind of demographic that we sell into primarily there. And these are people that are -- there are older Americans who -- they have got their home paid for in a lot of cases, they're probably retired in cases. So for them, it's more about the -- protecting their home, protecting their safety protecting their families. And I think that it's -- frankly, it's more about that than it is maybe about where interest rates are at any point in time.
