Adam Symson
The E.W. Scripps Company (SSP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, good morning Dan, thanks for the questions. On the Amazon investment into the RSN, I guess, near term, it means the teams are committed to the RSN contracts until either the RSN breaches those deals or in the event Diamond seeks some sort of discount that the teams decide to reject, which will then open up the opportunity for teams to move in a different direction.

Longer term, nothing about this investment changes the reality that the RSNs can't deliver the reach that team owners need given the erosion we're seeing in pay TV. And that's why they continue to turn to broadcasters.

So all of this to say, the RSN model is still in critical condition. I think you described it as sort of still thriving. This investment wasn't, in any way, a cure for what ails the RSN model, and I continue to expect that rights will move in the direction of local broadcast. And I continue to expect that Scripps will benefit from those moves.

Relative to the joint venture, I don't know if there's more to say than what I already said in my prepared remarks, I guess I would say, I think, there is no math that supports the idea that local rights can move to streaming or move to a D2C product and support a team's need to field a good team and to win. We've modeled it every other way.

And while streaming will continue to be an important part on the local end for incremental reach, these teams need broadcast reach, and that's the direction they're all moving in. So my enthusiasm for the opportunity for Scripps Sports has not dampened at all.

On the national side, I will tell you, speaking to the leagues, the owners, I think it's safe to say that reach continues to be the primary component for all of these team deals. During the Super Bowl week, you heard Roger Good ell say that he expects at least 90% of all games for the NFL to be broadcast on broadcast television, again, demonstrating the important power of reach.

I don't think any of these leagues want to impair their assets over the long term by completely going behind a paywall and being inaccessible to most Americans, especially as we continue to see that streaming landscape get more fragmented, not consolidated.

So we believe there will be a continued opportunity for broadcast networks, new opportunity for networks like ION, and of course, we think the continued opportunity for our affiliates that are partnered with the big four networks.

Thanks Dan.

Well, Steve, I think I've said over and over, I've had direct conversations with executives at the top of Disney and with Fox, and they describe this as it is, the virtual MVPDs, and they describe the arrangement will be consistent with the arrangement affiliates have with other virtual MVPDs. That will be carried along because clearly, our broadcast networks or their broadcast networks are core to the offering, given how much of the NFL -- or really, the only NFL offering will come through the broadcast stations and that we will be compensated in exactly the same mechanism that we're compensated for other virtual MVPDs.

So I don't know if we can make it any clearer. If, in fact, these -- and this is literally what was said to me on the day of the announcement. If these executives, as they say, are true to their word and will aggressively pursue cord cutters in order to bring them back to linear television, this stands to benefit Scripps in incremental distribution and incremental fees. Is that -- I mean, is that helpful?

Okay. I mean this comes directly from ABC and Fox. And this is consistent with what all of the affiliates have been saying. This is just another virtual MVPD, and we will be compensated for the carriage of our affiliates through this virtual MVPD.

