Adam Greenlee
Silgan Holdings Inc (SLGN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So destocking, I know we talked about it a little bit on the last call, but let's just try to put destocking in a few buckets. So the COVID items that saw a significant surge during the COVID pandemic period, created a destocking item as we came out of the pandemic. And those are things like lawn and garden, some of our hard surface cleaners, our health products and sanitizers, those types of products. Those went through a destocking phase post pandemic and essentially, those products have now fully recovered as we exit 2023.

So some of the early signs of recovery that we're going to talk about, I'm sure at some point on the call, are the items like our trigger sprayers, we did see sustained double-digit recovery later in 2023 and are expecting that growth to continue in 2024 as well. So that's the first part of destocking. Then we ran into a bit of food and beverage destocking, some challenges in Europe with inflation, et cetera. So it expanded to other categories once we got through the pandemic.

I think for the most part, we're seeing those now dwindle. And really, it's just some -- a few dribs and drabs that are carrying into 2024. The last item I would call destocking, George, is the pet food item that we talked about on the last call. And it occurred later in the cycle. Really, the fourth quarter played out almost exactly like we thought it was going to with pet food. And as we look forward into 2024, we'll have some continued destocking in pet food for sure. Some other categories, again, the trends are improving. And what I would say about pet food, we're going to see nice growth in the full year of 2024.

When destocking ends for pet food is somewhere between the end of first quarter, into the second quarter. So we're saying through the first half of the year, and we should be beyond destocking at that point. So I think as -- to answer your question, how should you think about it? I think it's dwindling in Q1. You've got the impact of pet food that we talked about. And as we cycle out of the second quarter, we think we'll be beyond the destocking activities.

Okay. Good question on soup. Sorry, I missed that on the first round there. We had talked on the last call that we were not only anticipating but seeing some further promotional activity in our food markets, particularly in soup. Soup did have a good quarter in the fourth quarter, CMI data showed nice recovery and growth in soup. And I think from our perspective, George, soup sort of played out exactly like we thought it was going to for the course of the year. We knew that -- or we anticipated that soup was going to have a more normal soup-filling season than maybe what we had seen in 2022, and that's really what happened.

So for the year-on-year comps, it was difficult through the summer when soup isn't typically filled. But as we now get into call it, Q4, we're seeing a normal soup season. We're also seeing, I think, the positive impact of some of the promotional activity that our customers have done, and it seems to be resonating with consumers. So part of that is what also gives us confidence back to your original question in '24. There are actions that our customers have taken from a promotional standpoint to begin to refocus on returning value to consumers and potentially driving volume, and we're seeing some green shoots as we sit here today.

And maybe the last question, George, just how you should think about all the items that come together. Obviously, they're all encompassed in our guidance as we think about 2024. And you go across the segment, sure, we had the 1 plant in the U.S. Dispensing and Specialty Closure segment. That's fully recovered, those costs as we expected. We're going to be reduced as we got through the end of the year and each quarter, we made progress. And really, those costs have now been driven out of the system as we sit here for 2024.

Maybe the last one, and I can move on. But -- the new wins in the Custom Container business, we talked about the first 1 coming on sometime in Q1. We're right on track. That will be commercialized. We are fully qualified just in the final stages of commercializing right now and the second large item is kind of a midyear qualification and commercialization. So we're feeling very good that those are on track and on time.

And then finally, the first piece of our $50 million 2-year program, those savings are expected to hit in '24. And as we said on the last call, the savings will be about 40% of the total. So we think we'll be at a run rate of, call it, $20 million of savings as we exit '24 and heading into '25.

Sure. And you're right. So there is some continued destocking in the first quarter. I think we're being a little cautious, Matt, because as we've seen in other categories, that destocking does sort of linger on just a little bit longer. So we're working with -- closely with our customers. And as you well know, we're near site or on site with many of those customers in this category. So we've got really good visibility into what they're filling plans are for 2024.

They've added some additional capacity as well. So that's helpful. So as we think about it for the year, you've got some destocking activity that will cause a difficult comp for us in the first quarter, and we will see growth the remainder of the year in pet food. And on a full year basis, again, remember, our first quarter and fourth quarter are 2 seasonally smallest quarters in the Metal Containers business. So we anticipate nice growth for the full year as we sit here in wet pet food.

Sure. It's a highlight for us. It's an area where we've been winning in that market for sure. We've seen really nice growth. And I would say we're still expecting significant growth in that particular sector. It's just -- it's moderating just a little bit. So instead of very consistent kind of mid-double-digit levels, we'll be kind of low double digits, high single digits as we look forward into those products. And that's still get the volume. So I think we're going to be ahead of the market for whatever that's worth. And again, we've added capacity as well to support that continued growth. So that growth comes with new product launches. It comes with innovation. It comes with growing customer relationships. So we're having a lot of success in that market because we are doing what Silgan does. We are standing and delivering on our commitments and winning with innovation in that market.

Sure. And they are tough decisions, Gabe. And what I would say is the 5 that we've announced to date go a long way to supporting the $50 million in total. Unfortunately, it doesn't get us all the way there. So there will be some additional activity, call it, over the course of the next 12 months that we'll be engaging in. Those are fluid plans, and we're continuing to evaluate and from my perspective, Gabe, this is nothing new for Silgan, unfortunately. We've had such a -- it's not unfortunate. Fortunately, we've had such a focus on driving cost out of our operations over time that this is just kind of the next page in the playbook. And we're responding, as we said, we're going to rightsize our capacities to market demand, and we've done that. We're doing that. And we're continuing to evaluate where additional opportunities to drive cost out of the system can take place.

So you should assume that there will be some more activity in the course of 2024 to get us to the total $50 million by the end of '25.

Sure. And I think you're spot on, Ghansham, with the broader food market and that promotional activity and maybe just to add a comment to what you said. I think the price recovery was really the focus for our customers, certainly in 2023. And I think that conversation has shifted now more to a volume recovery in 2024. And you're seeing the, again, the promotional activity, advertising, et cetera, in support of that. And what I would tell you about the pet food market is I think there's a small lag to the pet food market, following some of those similar patterns as they think about promotional activity. They were a little later to pass through the price to consumers as we were working through inflationary items. And I think they'll just be a little later to look to recover the volume as -- with promotional activity, et cetera. So I think that's all factored into our guidance. We're having those conversations with our customers. And there are promotional activity plans for 2024. They're just starting a little bit later than what we've seen in other categories.

Well, look, I mean, we're competing and winning that space all day long. So we've invested fairly heavily to support the growth as well. So we have a really good degree of confidence that those new business wins that we probably haven't talked as much about in Dispensing and Specialty Closures will deliver the growth that we're seeing in that space. So we have done a very nice job not only getting the new wins, but putting the capacity and commercializing that capacity to support the growth.

Yes. I think I go back to the comment I just made a few minutes ago that we're seeing some slight moderation from the kind of significant double-digit kind of growth to the maybe low double-digit kind of growth in the category now.

Yes. Good question, Anthony. And I think there are really 2 items that probably really think about the timing and rollout of the savings associated with the $50 million program. Again, we'll get $20 million of savings by the end of '24. And really, if you think about it, we just announced it on the last earnings call. So those programs do need to roll out through the course of the year. So certainly, you'll have greater savings in the back half than what you're going to see in the first half of the year. But we have a good degree of confidence we're going to be able to deliver those. Again, it's sort of what we do at Silgan and focusing driving cost out of the organization.
I think the other big item to think about is related to our European businesses. And the kind of year-over-year, as Kim alluded to in her comments earlier, we've got this rollout of high-cost inventory in our European metals business, both in Dispensing and Specialty Closures and in Metal Containers. There will be a negative in the early part of the year, mostly in the first quarter. And between the 2 segments, it's something like $10 million of negative impact to the P&L. And again, just -- it's that higher cost inventory rolling out through the P&L. And again, there'll probably be some lingering into the early part of Q2, but most of that should impact the first quarter.

Yes. So maybe it's a tale of 2 cities as far as we think about the businesses that we have. So maybe I'll start with the European consumer. Again, as we've talked previously, we think it's been a tough environment for the European consumer between inflation in food products, inflation in fuel and light and power. There's a lot of inflation the consumer's taken on, and they have adjusted their spending habits. So we've seen that in more discretionary items. Frankly, we've seen it in our Metal Closures business, particularly in Europe, where we are on more of a premium package with a glass package with a metal closure on the top of it.

So for the food and beverage business, I think we're seeing soft demand. We saw a soft demand for the most part in 2023. That continues for the most part. We think there should be some improvement in the second half. We've taken a conservative approach to that at this point. And then you think about the balance of our dispensing products, actually, demand has remained quite resilient in the European economy for those products. And again, we've got some health care business. We've got some fragrance. Our high-value dispensers continue to do well, almost regardless of the geography and where we compete.

Fundamentally, nothing has changed. Again, we see a lot of the same type of opportunities for continued growth going forward. The base has obviously grown quite a bit. So the absolute dollar value of growth that we're talking about year-over-year, you're just claiming over a larger base every time you keep growing by a nice double-digit kind of growth rate. So nothing really beyond that, Mike. It's a strong market for us in the high-value dispensers and we're going to continue to see really nice growth.

That's the right way to think about it from our perspective.

Yes. I think you've got the cadence exactly right. And again, the destocking as it relates to Dispensing and Specialty Closures really is the kind of the ending of the food and beverage destocking activities that we've been talking about. So we anticipate that to be mostly a first quarter item, and we should see that inflection point, call it, late in Q2.

Yes. And it's -- it's an interesting question because for the most part, we see it across almost all of our categories. We've been having a lot of conversations with our customers about their promotional activity and most of those comments back relate to the consumer has really been trained to buy product on promotion right now. And it's an interesting concept. And you kind of fast forward that to all of our categories, we certainly see it in food. We do see it in beverage. We see it in home care, we see in lawn care in advance of lawn and garden season. I just think it's applying just about everywhere with different degrees of productivity, but there is promotional activity across most of our segments right now.

I would say, I'll exclude high-end fragrant beauty because there's really no need for promotional activity there. That's a different consumer set and a different value proposition.

Yes, good question. Obviously, as we think about the guidance that we give, it does factor in a range of outcomes. So for the most part, we don't need a full recovery of the markets to get to the high end of our range, but it would take some volume growth in our -- in each of our segments to get there.

Yes. I think again, we're anticipating some nice recovery and growth in certain categories for '24. So if that does not happen, and there is some other geopolitical items that would force demand to retract a bit, that's how you get to the lower end of our guidance.

Yes, I do. What I would say, Dan, is that the large contract commercializing in the first quarter was originally identified to commercialize in '23. And while that's disappointing, what's one of the great things about Silgan's disciplined approach to these customer arrangements is the contract doesn't start until it's commercialized. So while it's, let's call it, 6 months later than we anticipated, we do get the full term of the agreement that we had negotiated and agreed upon with the customer. The second item that's commercializing midyear was also supposed to be a '23 item. So unfortunately, they both got delayed. But the good news, as I said, the 1 in the first quarter, we are fully qualified and are commercializing literally as we speak. So we are right on track with commercializing both of those new business wins as we sit here today.

Interesting question, Gabe. Let me -- I'll start, and we'll probably just work around the horn here as we try to put an answer for you. First of all, I think with that kind of steel change, we didn't really see a lot of customers delaying purchases from Q4 into Q1. So I'll just -- I'll say that upfront. We're going to get more visibility of that as we now cycle through the rest of Q1, but we just don't think that really happened in Europe. And so I don't think there's a whole lot that we're going to have to think about for Q4 either. I think we should have that conversation at the end of our Q1 call because we'll have a lot more visibility.

And then I just think the cadence for the year, there's just not much else to think about for Europe. We're going to get through some of the other recovery of inflation items that the consumers had, and we are -- we see it halfway to better volumes later in the year for the European business. But as we sit here today, we're just taking that cautious approach.

Great. Thank you, Anna. Thanks, everyone, for your interest in Silgan and we look forward to reviewing our first quarter results after the first quarter.