Adam Aron
AMC Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (AMC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, Eric, look, you're entirely right that if you look at the single biggest challenge that our industry has faced since the reopening of theaters at the end of 2020, it's in the lack of content. And we took matters into our own hands in 2023 with Taylor and Beyoncé and had two grand successes. That causes us to want to do more. We certainly got the attention of the best musical artists in the world, and so there will be more of those. I don't want to quantify it.

I mean, I've got a good sense of it, but I don't want to quantify it quite yet. Let's land some contracts for future concert films, and then we'll have a better sense of what you can count on reliably. But who knows where this will lead? There's other alternate content that we could focus on other than just concert movies. We could look to comedy, we could look to sports. When you think about the movie theater industry, it's a dirty little secret that we only - that the industry only sells about 15% of our tickets. I used to work in the airline industry.

We sold like 75% of our tickets, not 15%. And there has to be ways to create alternate content that will not replace what Hollywood's doing, but will augment what Hollywood is doing by filling some of those empty seats that are just sitting there waiting to be filled. It also does sort of cause us to think what other ways can we generate movie content in our theaters inexpensively?

I don't think you'll ever find a situation where AMC is writing a check for $50 million or $100 million or $200 million to make movies. But there are some interesting ways to collaborate with movie makers to take movies that might not otherwise get made and get them into our theaters and into some other theaters of our friends in the industry, both in the U.S., abroad.

So, this whole notion of how do we increase content is something that's completely in our wheelhouse, and it's a direct result of our success in what we tried to do in the fourth quarter and succeeded with Taylor and with Beyoncé.

We'll take it, Diego. We have had retail shareholders send questions in. Sean, what do they want to hear about?

Well, that's a good question. And - but before we talk about whether we get beyond pre-pandemic levels, let's talk first about getting to pre-pandemic levels, because as we sit here today, the movies released by the major studios are down about 25%. From the quantity of pre-pandemic releases. The good news here is, as you know well, we talk to every major studio every week of our lives here at this company, and we know that studio after studio after studio sees the opportunity for them that can come from achieving high theatrical grosses.

And one studio after another is doing all in its power to increase their release schedules, to get the release schedules first back up to pre-strike levels, and then hopefully even higher levels than that, moving back closer to pre-pandemic levels.

Yes, it's true, Apple and Amazon are making movies. They're releasing those movies theatrically. We're working very closely with each company, happily so. We welcome them to the party, and we have enough screens in our company and in our industry to accommodate whatever supply of content all these studios can produce and then some.

I would point out that one of the comments in my prepared remarks that's so important is we've done so much in the past four years to make this company more efficient. Our profit per patron is up 37% from where it was when we entered the pandemic, which means we don't actually need the box office to come all the way back to pre-pandemic levels.

We don't need attendance to come all the way back to pre-pandemic levels because we're making so much more profit from each guest who is in our theater. As for whether in fact and when the box office does cross that pre-pandemic hurdle and crosses $11 billion, we'll all find out together.

So I don't think anyone's worked harder at diversifying their revenue streams in our industry than AMC has in the past few years. And some of them have been quite high profile, things like giving Orville Redenbacher some competition on the shelves at Walmart with our popcorn lines that we took to the home, which are selling extremely well at Walmart.

And we just literally, in these very months, are in the process of having extended our retail presence to Kroger and to Publix. We also went up on the Amazon Marketplace, so that's an example of diversifying our revenues. Merchant - we launched our candy line, I guess it was in December, I think, at our theaters.

I've tweeted publicly about maybe coming up with a house wine or house beer. Beyond that though, I think the single biggest, most successful diversification play we've had so far is what we've done with movie-themed merchandise. As I said in the prepared remarks, we sold $54 million of it in 2023. Like three years earlier, we sold nothing, $54 million from nothing. So we continue to be intrigued by diversification, and there are other diversification opportunities.

But I think it's really important to say this. We work very hard to bring all that cash into our bank accounts, as you know, and 2024 could be a challenging year, especially early in the year. We need to husband all of that cash and treat that cash as being very precious because it's the thing which assures our survival going forward.

Therefore, if we're going to look for diversification plays, we have to do so in a capital-light way. We have to be able to diversify, spending very little money to do so, because the smartest thing we can do with our cash right now is keep it for a rainy day.

There are a lot of ideas about our loyalty programs. Our marketing department right now is in the process of testing some things we've given a lot of thought to. A list is of great appeal to us, of course, it's been a very successful program for our company. The most important marketing program this company has ever had is our Stubs frequent moviegoer program, and there are a lot of interesting things that we might be able to do to make Stubs appeal to more people and to cause people who are Stubs members to attend more movies.

There are interesting things afoot about how might one qualify for Premier. As an example. There are other possibilities of - I think we have three tiers in the Stubs program right now, the free Insider tier, the paid Premier tier, and the A-list tier.

There's talk of creating a fourth tier of Stubs, somewhat in between the Premier level and the Insider level with new benefits. We're going to test right - research and test right now for a possible roll out later this year. And then there's a program near and dear to my heart, which is a loyalty program of another sort. It's called AMC Investor Connect.

We have over a million members of AMC investor Connect. These are our shareholders who've registered with us and told us that they're interested in our company. They're either current or former shareholders. We've been in frequent communication with them. We've done lots of advance screenings for them.

We've given them some free this and that, some free popcorns and some free drinks and other things. One of the things that we will definitely be doing in 2024 is reinvigorating AMC investor Connect, adding more benefits to it. Because we know how loyal those AMC Investor Connectors - Connect members are to AMC.

We want to thank them for their loyalty and encourage them to visit our theaters over and over again. Those are just some of the things we're working on, but watch this space. You know, I might add that I think one of AMC's greatest strengths over the past decade has been I think we've been the preeminent consumer marketer in our industry.

Just think about the Nicole Kidman campaign, for example, that took on like a cult-like nature. It really hit into the American zeitgeist. And one of the things that I think is fun about that is if you go to an AMC movie, there's something called the pre-show. It's the thing that comes up just before the trailers run and before the movies run.

And for the first time in four years, starting in a couple of days, we're putting up a new pre-show on the screen. We think it's kind of beautiful and spectacular. We think people will like it. But one of the intriguing little twists is we're moving into phase two of the Nicole Kidman campaign.

For the last three years, we've had a 60-second Nicole commercial, the same one that's appeared over and over before every movie start. And starting March 1, we're going to show three different 30-second Nicole Kidman commercials before the movie starts, a rotating basis. You won't get like three in a row when you go watch one movie. But as you watch movies going forward, you'll see three different Nicole spots that kind of randomly will appear in our theaters prior to the show.

We're very good marketers. We use that for the benefit of driving revenues. And as you saw, our revenue growth in calendar '23 and in the fourth quarter of '23, we outpace just about everybody in our industry.

So for the past couple of years, we've been in a hundred - a landscape of $150 million to $200 million of annual capital expenditures. About $150 million of that is to - what we call maintenance CapEx, to just keep our theaters in good shape.

You can't run a movie theater with a leaky roof or an air conditioning unit that doesn't work or a projector that doesn't show movies. And then some of that CapEx has been used for enhancing our IT systems and growth-oriented projects, bringing some spot acquisitions. Like you said we added 59 theaters into our system over the past several years.

Some of our CapEx goes to bring those new theaters into our system. As we look ahead, those years of $500 million CapEx, those were in the days when we were renovating, putting in reclining seats in 50, 60, 70 theaters a year. That spurt is way behind us. So I'd say that with one caveat, people should be expecting CapEx in the $200 million range going forward.

And that caveat is this, because of the tough years that we've had with respect to earnings over the last few years, we've put a tight lid on capital expenditures. It was crucial for us to keep cash in the bank and not necessarily spend it all.

There are some obvious growth projects that if we were to raise an additional $50 million to $100 million, for example, and we wanted to reinvest that back into our fleet of theaters. If that was something that would produce the highest and best return on that investment, it would have to produce a return on investment higher, for example, than buying back our debt at a substantial discount, which we've done a lot of in the past year or two.

There's just some obvious things that are low-hanging fruit where we know the payback would be quick. And the most obvious of them is this. AMC has the largest number of premium large-format screens of any movie theater chain in the world, and it's not close. We are 50% of all IMAX screens in the United States, for example.

We are 100% of all the Dolby Cinema screens in the United States, for example. And what we've seen is that our premium large-format screens command a price in the market that's about 30% higher than the normal so-called 2D auditorium price. They sell out first. The typical seat in a premium large-format screen is sold three to four times more than the typical seat in an auditorium that's not a premium large-format screen.

And I could easily see us 00 we have about 600 or so premium large-format screens around the world. I could easily see us adding another 150 and we would get a great return from that. But it's not a cheap endeavor and we'd have to be very careful about how much money we invest and doing it at the right time.

So I don't want to say that there's a lid on CapEx spending of $200 million because there are some low-hanging fruit, no-brainer ideas on how we could further drive profitability if we do have additional CapEx dollars to spend.

So I'm looking at the clock. We're past our hour, so we're going to bring this webcast to an end. I'd like to leave you with the final simple thought. 2023 was a superb year for this company on the march to getting back to pre-COVID levels of profitability. 2024 is going to be a bit harder, but 2024 is going to get a lot better starting tomorrow because Dune opens in all of its glory and we're expecting it to be a big and successful movie.

We hope you all buy tickets, go to the theater, be amused, be entertained. And as we look further beyond just this weekend, and we look ahead to the next year, which is, as I said, right around the corner, we really think '25 is going to be an incredible year for our company and should be the - just as 2023 was the best year since COVID, we're thinking 2025 is going to leave 2023 in the dust in terms of how potentially good a year 2025 is going to be. So we're optimistic, we're confident, and we'll see you all at the movies. Thank you for joining us today.
