Adena Friedman
Nasdaq, Inc. (NDAQ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Yeah. I would just say on an ARR growth perspective, we did provide you kind of that mid-teens view of ARR growth and we continue to see the business dynamics supporting that. And so we would expect that, that medium-term outlook for Adenza will continue to support that mid-teens growth. I think that as we know, revenue growth is -- also is impacted by timing of bookings, timing of renewals there and whether or not it's on-prem or cloud. So we're going to actually unpack that at Investor Day to help you understand how do you turn ARR into revenue, how do revenue dynamics change and recognizing there would be more quarterly shift in revenues. But the general view is that, that ARR growth is definitely the fundamental thing to look at in terms of how you evaluate the growth and progress of Adenza or Calypso and Axiom. And at the same time, we do want you to understand how the revenue dynamics work. The more we sign cloud, the more the contracts become ratable over the life of the contract. And whereas in on-prem deals, we recognize half the license fees upfront upon signing. So there's a lot to unpack there. But we feel great about the overall demand drivers. The other thing to think about with Axiom and Calypso is that timing of renewals also can have an impact in revenue recognition. But again, we're seeing really strong demand cycles for both Axiom and Calypso, so we feel very good about that, whereas timing of revenue might be a little different from one to another just based on when the renewal cycles hit in that kind of given year. So that's definitely -- again, we'll go through it. I would say the foundation is very strong and remains consistent with what we expected.

Yeah. So actually, I mean, we're not going to get very specific on that particular year. But as a general dynamic, when we look at ARR growth, we basically attribute about half the ARR growth to upsells actually. And we upsold a lot of clients and I can’t remember the exact number, but we upsold over 100, almost 150 clients, I think or 120 clients in 2023. And then the other half comes from a combination of pricing increases and new bookings. We don't break that out in terms of that half. But I would just say it is a combination of both. And the way that it works is, obviously, we add a lot of value across the products as we go through the year. And so as we go into both annualized increases that are contractually stated but also renewal cycles, we definitely show that the value of what we're providing to them corresponds with an increase and/or their assets are increasing. And therefore, they're using this across a larger part of their business and that also warrants an increase. But those are -- that dynamic is consistent.

Yeah, sure. Well, just by the way, just to be very precise, we had 142 upsells, including three cross-sells in Adenza in 2023. I just wanted to make sure we get the facts out there. But in terms of the listings dynamics, it definitely has been a more challenging environment listings. And as you know, as you point out, the amortization of the initial listing fees is an important dynamic within the listings revenues. It benefits -- it means when we have a really strong year of listings, like we had in 2020 and 2021, we don't recognize all the initial listing fees that year, it kind of gives us a lift in the following years because those fees are amortized over two to four years, depending on the size of the listing. But then it means that when we have two more challenging years, it takes time for that to also filter through. And so we will have kind of residual impact of these lower years in 2024 and 2025 as the initial listing fees from the higher years roll off and we don't have, as you've noticed, kind of a net reduction in listings in 2023. So we would expect that 2024 will be a challenging year for listings. Within the data and listings business, though, we basically are saying that it's a low to mid-single digit grower, and we would anticipate that we can still achieve that, even with the more muted listing revenue that we would expect in 2024.

Sure. So all of the solutions within Workflow & Insights are SaaS solutions. So how you end the year really determines a lot about the following year. And so we definitely saw a more challenging environment with corporates last year. The listing environment was more muted, but also they were just not as focused on investing across IR in a more challenging market backdrop. That improved in the fourth quarter. And so we did start to have a more, I would say, more normalized environment for conversations and signings of corporate clients for our IR solutions in the fourth quarter, but it was against the backdrop of a harder year overall. So it will take time for that improved environment to actually flow through and show up in the actual SaaS revenues because we obviously have to continue to see that and it will kind of build on itself. But I would expect that 2024 will continue to kind of have some overhang from the weaker environment in ‘23, even with a more normalized sales environment. With analytics, it's actually what's interesting, our overall analytics growth was quite strong in the fourth quarter at 9%. And I think that, that really reflects demand for our data across the buy side and the analytic solutions we have that serve the buy side. But our asset owner solutions, this is a very specific software capability that we offer to endowments and pensions and others. That actually did have an uptick in demand and signing in the fourth quarter, but it was an overall difficult year. So that again, I think will create a headwind as we go through 2024 with the hope that we can start to show some pick-up as we go through the year.

I would say we will provide at least more color on that in Investor Day. But if we think about it, I think, Sarah, it's like 14% of overall revenue?

And then in ARR, it's 21%?

Yeah, 21% of ARR is cloud. So we have a lot of runway here. So as we renew clients, moving them into the cloud modules, as we sign new clients, sign them for new modules. But recognizing that we can sign a client just on a new module in cloud, like it doesn't have to be that they're signing for Calypso and they're adding new functionality, just that new functionality we can deliver in cloud. That's how flexible the platform is. They don't have to kind of redo the whole platform implementation on cloud. But that also means that as we work with clients on renewals and changes, is they're going to have different timelines for how they want to bring that cloud capabilities in. Some banks are marching very fast into cloud and they have like actually top down mandates to move to cloud and that can obviously be a huge catalyst for us. But other banks are marching quite slowly towards it. So we want to be flexible. We expect this to be, as we said, very much a multi-year transition, going from 21% of ARR and growing and growing. But I have to say, it will be a slow moving train. In terms of the economics, it is both an opportunity for us to be a true managed service provider, which gives us more revenue opportunity, and also provide it with a very nice margin for both them and us. So that's an opportunity for uplift, but again, a slow moving train. So we'll want to make sure that we give you a little more color on that at Investor Day.

Well, we don't actually provide specific contract values per client or anything like that. If you don't mind, I think we'll take that one back and think about how we want to provide more transparency there. But I would say this, it's always land and expand. And actually as we move up into Tier 2s and Tier 1s [on ASCs] (ph), it's land and expand. So we might sign a client for, let's say mid to high six figures or low seven figures to land. And then as we expand, we can go and we can double or triple, or even in some cases, you know, have five times the amount over time. And I do think we have some examples of that back when we first signed the deal and on our third quarter results, we gave some examples of how we've expanded contracts over time, but we're not providing you specifics on, like, what the new contract values were for the new clients right now.

Thank you.

Sure. Yeah. So I think we did see some declines in the growth and net retention in the latter part of the year. And I think really a lot of that did come from the bankruptcy that we mentioned and that really did start impacting us in the fourth quarter. And then, we had, I would just say the, what I would call the events of 2023 across the banking system did create some levels of challenge in a couple of very specific areas of retention, but it's not, I would say there was nothing systemic about the concern. There was nothing that we saw that was that was more of a trend in any way whatsoever. It was more the encapsulation of a lot of the events that occurred during the year both in terms of looking at the retention as well as kind of some of the acquisitions that occurred. But again, these are very, very specific and nothing trend-wise. But I don't know, Sarah, if you want to add anything to that.

Yeah.

Okay, great. Thank you.

You know, one thing we're pretty good at is that, that just leaving 2023, as Sarah mentioned, we're at 4.3 times leverage. So that's ahead of what we had anticipated at the closing of the deal. And so that's actually kind of both the strength of the business, as well as some very specific tactical decisions we made to pay down the term loan as we're kind of getting started to kind of launch into 2024 with a very solid plan on deleveraging. But also the focus though will be on that balanced approach over time.

Yeah, go ahead.

Sure, yeah. So I would say that, first of all, we've been really focused on making sure that we are being as efficient as possible across the business, just on a go -- on a run rate basis. That we are also though continuing to make the investments in driving our products forward, our growth forward, but also automation, on bringing more automation into the company. And at the same time, beginning the synergy achievement on the Adenza deal. And the midpoint really reflects all of that. What would drive the expenses above that would be higher growth. So if we're able to grow faster and we're able to grow more, there might be some revenue related expenses that come in in terms of just being able to achieve that revenue. But I think that it has also more to do with can we continue to actually accelerate some of our investments if we're seeing higher revenue growth throughout the year. And that's why we always give you a range of kind of the mid to long term outlook on our solutions business growth, revenue growth, and expense growth so that you can kind of understand how we calibrate it. But we do feel like it's been a good combination at the midpoint of expense discipline, Adenza synergies, but also targeted investments in our business.

Sure. Thanks, Andrew. Yeah, so we are really proud to partner with BlackRock and Valkyrie as they brought their Bitcoin ETFs to Nasdaq. And it really does give investors an opportunity to express a view on the trend of Bitcoin without having -- in a highly regulated marketplace and without having to go and actually buy Bitcoin. So we do think it creates more accessibility for retail investors to have a position at Bitcoin. I think that in terms of the broader digital asset space though, as you know, we are a tech provider to the industry. We continue to provide technology to cryptocurrency exchanges, both trading, clearing, and as well as surveillance. And actually, as we've been working with some traditional exchanges, they want to make sure that they're kind of future proof. So for instance, with one of the CSD clients that we sold to this year, one of the key things is to make sure that they could move towards digital assets in their settlement system. And so we are, all of our technology can support digital assets in terms of trading, clearing settlement, surveillance. And that gives us a chance to work with the traditional exchanges and crypto exchanges. In terms of our specific crypto custody solution, we have built it. We are ready to provide that to exchanges and providers and custodians around the world. So that is now a technology offering that we can offer to clients around the world. But we have made a conscious choice not to launch a custody solution, being a custodian ourselves. I think that we feel that there are several out there that they're operating well, but it's also a very capital-intensive business. And our view is that we are better served being a market operator for the ETFs and other instruments like that, as well as being a technology provider to the industry.

Sure. So I would say that, we'll take Calypso and AxiomSL separately. AxiomSL did do a significant rewrite of their technology a few years ago. So we feel very good about kind of how they're positioned. But, and then Calypso actually, they are super flexible and very modular. So they kind of have this continuum of investment in Calypso. And they've been able to, because of that, they've actually been much more able to, both of them are focused on just bringing in new modules very quickly and iterating on their technology. So we feel really good about the tech foundation. And I think we said that at the time of signing. And now that we've closed on a deal, we've looked under the hood, it is a great technology and it's very modular and kind of platform-based. I think the area that we can really help focus them is on how do we really optimize the cloud implementation to make it so that it's as efficient as possible for them and their clients. And so we have a lot of expertise there. We've had a long history of cloud deployed solutions. And so we do actually think that's an area where we can help them invest to make it so that that can be even more effectively and efficiently delivered. But that's not a significant capital investment as much as that's just continuing innovation. They have been investing in R&D, so that has been a hallmark of their business. And so we are really pleased to see that. And we will continue that, but that's not something where there's a big CapEx requirement right now. We really do see it as a continuum of innovation. In terms of our CapEx across the year, I think, I don't know if they have any specific things that you want to mention there.

For surveillance.

I think, as you know, Brian -- as you know, Brian, we have a kind of an 18% to 23% kind of expectation across CSD. Now, as we move to reg tech and we integrate that with AxiomSL, we're going to be providing kind of a view and I think it's -- I always look at it as 10% to 14% across fintech, all told. And that will incorporate Verafin and surveillance along with market tech and the Adenza products.

Great, thank you. And as we enter another exciting year at Nasdaq, we remain focused on activating and unlocking new opportunities that will drive the business into the future. Before I close, I want to remind everyone, if you didn't remember already, that we have our scheduled 2024 Investor Day on for Tuesday, March 5th. We hope to see you all there, either in person or virtually, and we look forward to sharing our vision with you. Thank you for joining us and have a great day.