Albert Nahmad 
Watsco(WSO) CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

You bet.

Very good question. As you know, I've stated earlier that eventually, our aspiration is 30%, and we have a ways to go. So I'm going to ask Barry Logan and Paul Johnston to deal with current events.

And it's a great question. By the way, some of the OEMs, particularly large ones -- now 30% unit volume drop in the fourth quarter. And we're pleased that we're doing a hell of a lot better than that. Paul, do you want to take a shot?

Generally. Let me just say generally that if -- I've obviously seen industry weakness as an opportunity for us. there are highly leveraged distributors in the business, and there are distributors that don't have the -- perhaps the balance sheet to deal with tougher times. We see that as an opportunity to join -- have them join us with their culture. We provide capital, we insisted they keep their culture and their organization and we provide tools that no one else has -- so I'm sort of well, I don't -- would not be very excited to have market industry data decline. If it happens, I'm also looking at opportunity to bring more wonderful companies to do partnership with us. Go ahead, Paul.

We have that information. Barry, Paul?

Mr. Logan?

Good morning David?

Well, I'll give you a big picture of it is that we do want and we'll work on higher inventory turns. So I do expect to have our inventory produce more cash flow as it turns. And the science that we use is to do that, is being implemented. It's a very long process, longer than I expected. But eventually, what you'll see is lower investment in inventory and higher returns when compared to sales.

Good morning, Jeffrey.

Well, our guru and that is Paul Johnson.

And I think that's well said.

Good morning, Joe.

Well I did comment that commercial is very strong, and then we have backlog for at least a year. Can you add anything more to that, Barry or Paul?

You better take that Barry. Barry and Paul, do you want to deal with that?

Good morning, Damian.

Thanks for your interest in our company. We much appreciate it. And we believe that we have an enormous future ahead of us, and we hope you'll be with us along the way. Bye-bye.