Allan Thygesen
DocuSign, Inc. (DOCU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I’ll go first. Thanks, Brent. I think on the sales force, so I’d say, I think we are in a significantly more stable situation than 6, 12 months ago. Attrition rates have slowed. We’ve got, I think, a pretty full team in place. Steve has done a very nice job with that. There’s more better execution, better predictability. Part of what gave us the confidence to take the restructuring action was in fact that and that we could see what our sales capacity was, and we felt we had a little bit of excess capacity there as well as a keen understanding of where we could deinvest and free up resources to invest elsewhere.

So, we’re being cautious in saying there could be a little bit of disruption as some of the -- particularly the very low end, some of the business that might previously have had a little bit of human touch, we’ll try to do that more particularly through our self-serve motion. But I think that should play out in a relatively very quick order over 1 to 2 quarters. But I think the sales force is actually in the best place it’s been for a while. We just had our global kickoff last week in I think I’m presenting them saying that they’re incredibly energized by the road map. And they all have slightly larger territories, now too. So, it’s a very positive feel I think, throughout the sales team.

Yes. Thanks for the question. The first thing I would say is the overall macro environment just affects businesses of all sizes and their ability and willingness to spend on all kinds of software, including ours. But I don’t think we’re particularly more macro sensitive or a little less than others. In terms of the industry mix in the economy, we do have a little bit of over exposure, if you will, to real estate and a few other sectors that have been a little tougher. On the other hand, we are quite diversified and have some real strength in sectors like health and manufacturing, telecommunications. So that’s balancing out.

In terms of the value prop, I agree with your statement. I think there’s a very quick payback. I think we’re seeing that. So customers -- and that’s also a key part of DocuSign’s competitive value proposition vis-à-vis other competitors, people tend to respond fast. They’re more likely to respond to an agreement. They’re more -- they’re faster to respond and they have a better positive experience.

So overall, I think the macro environment presents some clouds for IT budgets of companies of all sizes. We are seeing maybe a little bit more vertical exposure than the average company but are generally pretty balanced. And I think our value prop remains quite strong.

Yes. I’ll take the first one. So, just our go-to-market, historically, DocuSign has been very heavily focused on a direct sales motion for customers of all sizes. And we will retain direct sales as our principal go-to-market channel, and it’s a huge strength for the Company, and we certainly want to continue to improve there. But we feel we want to complement it in two areas. One is with the self-serve motion. And that’s not just for little customers. That’s for customers of all sizes. We just think that all customers appreciate an opportunity to self-serve for certain types of activities at all stages of their journey with us. And that -- I’ll come back to that in a second. And then third, we are really focused on maturing our partner go-to-market where we can use distributors and resellers in some international markets, we can partner with ISVs to be directly embedded in their applications. We have significant activity there, what can meaningfully improve.

Let me quickly return to the self-serve piece in particular. I want to make sure that it’s clear, we want to stop treating digital and direct sales as separate channels over time. We essentially want to offer all customers the opportunity to self-serve if and when they wish. And I expect many customers will avail themselves of that. And then as a corollary, I want our sales teams to see the self-serve options as a positive complement to their activities. I think that’s what we did at Google, I think that’s Robert did at Atlassian, and I think that’s what a lot of companies that are natively digital in their motion do, and I think we have a tremendous amount of opportunity there. So that’s our overall go-to-market plan. Cynthia, do you want to take the second half?

Yes. So first of all, on a segment basis, and I think Cynthia alluded to this, we have first of all, a very balanced customer portfolio. So, we have a significant SMB and mid-market business and a big emphasis on growing our enterprise business. And I’d say on balance, I don’t know that there’s a huge difference in momentum between those sectors. I know some companies are reporting particular challenges in SMB. I don’t think we’re seeing that. In fact, we had some nice momentum on new accounts in particular. So, I was pleased to see that.

I think in terms of -- that was the segment piece. What was the other part of your question?

Okay. There’s no question that over the last three to five years, the market has gotten more competitive. I don’t know that we’re seeing a material change in how competitive it is here in the last few quarters. I think we continue to be the market leader. We don’t spend as much time worrying about what other people are doing, I think we want to really redefine the category and set the direction for the industry. And I think we’re well on our way to doing that. And that’s where we’re focused from a competitive standpoint, if you will.

In terms of the tactics, we are looking on pricing and packaging and how can we be as agile as possible by segment, by country. There might be a few countries where we’ve gotten a little too far off the market. And so, we’re looking at that very carefully. I mentioned some bundling opportunities during my prepared remarks. So, we think there’s a lot of opportunities there. There’s some enterprise license agreements. Some of our largest customers, we really want to the ubiquitous eSignature solution for -- in every instance where they want to deploy that. And so we’re in the process of both building out the product to enable that for embedding as well as direct sales and in structuring our license agreements so that that is as attractive as possible for our large clients.

Yes. Actually, I think WebForms has a little bit more potential than that. We’re very optimistic because I think it really -- it epitomizes the transformation of agreement with sort of a static representation of a traditional form to completely new customer experiences. And the other thing it does, of course, is it makes it much easier to capture all the meta data around the agreements, which is really where we’re heading in the longer term. As you think about what we want to do is we want to decompose agreements into dynamic objects that can be filled both with data from the customer side and from the signer side. And WebForms is the first step of that process. There’s a lot more coming in the remainder of the year along those lines. So, we’re quite bullish on the cumulative impact of all of those launches. But obviously, version 1.0 will have some gaps.

In terms of the transformational piece, I think I touched a little on the AI piece. I -- we have a lot of opportunity there. And so, we have some -- we will be making some announcements on that later this spring, as the beginning of a new product in that area. And over time, I think the work that we’re doing now to completely revamp how we leverage AI is very exciting. So, if you think about the application of AI in the agreement space, a lot of the excitement right now around ChatGPT and the other -- and the competitors are around basically text generation, and that has an obvious analogy to the agreement space of drafting contracts. And we do think that’s very exciting and that there’s value to be captured there, and we will absolutely pursue that.

But, if you look at where companies actually find value from agreements, it would be more in the extraction of data and value out of the agreements as well as the search and analytics on that. And you can also apply AI to that. And that’s an area where I think we are uniquely positioned to deliver very compelling value, and we got a number of large customers who are very excited to work with us on that type of next-generation AI activity. I don’t think -- that’s not going to hit in the next couple of quarters. But in terms of the longer-term road map and delivering on our vision, it’s incredibly exciting and could really provide transformational growth.

Yes. So, first of all, I think, look, when people first hear self-serve, they think of don’t you already have a website and can’t people order on your website. And of course, yes, we do, and yes, they can. But what I’m talking about is a significantly more transformational effort where customers can discover, try, embrace and really deploy products without ever engaging with a DocuSign employee, and we can then engage with them as that potential is demonstrated and expressed and we can apply our sales forces really more efficiently. So, it becomes a huge multiplier for efficiency in our sales teams. And that’s the model that companies like Atlassian has had pioneered over time and very excited to apply that at DocuSign.

In terms of how that applies across segments, it’s certainly true that you can imagine an SMB customer basically remaining a purely digital customer, and we would love that. But as customers grow in scope and potential and complexity, then the application of those sales resources becomes both more profitable for us and more necessary for the customer. And so, I do expect a heavier sales component as we -- as you move up market. Mid-market has always been a core strength for us and it remains a really important segment. A lot of our products -- you start there and you sort of grow out from there. So, I think that will remain a critical segment for DocuSign and very relevant for the self-serve -- expanded self-serve motion that I’ve just described.

Yes. We are in active discussions internally exactly how we want to pursue Japan. I’d say Germany is another market where I don’t think we have fully lived up to our potential. And I agree with you, we’re in a great starting position. Our initial forays into both of those markets were really mostly just a direct sales motion. We didn’t put, I think, quite enough resources behind it and all the other functions, including product and our administrative functions. And as you noted, in markets like Japan, the road is littered with U.S. companies that have tried to go to Japan. So we’re certainly going to be leveraging partners there. So stay tuned. I think we’ll have more to report on both of those countries during the course of fiscal ‘24. But right now, it’s sort of in the planning and decisioning exactly how we’re going to pursue that. But those are definitely strategic priorities within our broader international strategy.

Yes. I’d say, first of all, we feel like we have turned the organization pretty well at this point and reallocated resources to where we’d see the highest investment. Look, I agree with you. I think we were not sufficiently efficient from a sales and marketing perspective. I hope to make us more efficient over time. Until I see that, I don’t -- we don’t want to be -- as Cynthia says, we want to project what we see. And -- but you can assume that there will be a lot of emphasis on getting increasingly efficient, even beyond what we have, but I’m not ready to make any -- that part of our forecast at this time. But that would certainly be the hope and expectation that we can accelerate top line and improve efficiency over time.

I would say maybe one other point on the investment piece. We feel we have a very significant opportunity. And we have been, I think, a little underinvested in innovation over the last couple of years. We had the -- and have the market-leading product and it remains an incredible value proposition. But I’m excited to reinvigorate that and get us to capitalize on the larger opportunity that I outlined earlier on this call. And I think the whole team feels -- we already got some stuff coming out in Q1, and there will be a lot more over the next three quarters, and that will position us to -- for growth in future years.

Yes. I think change and transition for calendar ‘22 -- fiscal ‘23. For this year, I think it’s about setting the foundations for growth, and we are -- we’re really leaning into that. I think we have a fantastic opportunity to capitalize on this very large TAM that we believe were pointed at. We are the market leader in e-signature and CLM. We are in the best position to capitalize on that opportunity, and we just need to go execute. So, that’s the job this year. It’s not quite as much of a turnaround transitional year as last year, it’s much more of a foundation and preparation for growth building year.

Yes. I mean, I think we’ve reported in the past that 13% of our business is digital. But a lot of that is associated by the fact that there’s only a small number of profits and options that you can find on our website. And so, we’ve been pushing actively even relative to small customers to have to order from a sales rep which I will admit I was slightly shocked to learn when I joined.

So, our goal is to dramatically grow the -- all the pieces of the business. And I’m not sure it’s going to be as meaningful a year from now to talk about what’s digital versus what’s direct because -- in a lot of cases, our customer may order some things digitally and may talk to their sales rep about other things. And so, the whole thing becomes a little bit less clear.

From a partner perspective, I don’t think we’ve externally reported in our partner mix. It’s a partner touched, it’s a meaningful minority of our business, in terms of directly partners sold, that’s a little smaller. I think both of those need to grow meaningfully. We don’t have -- I alluded to this in my comments, just as one example. There’s a big opportunity to embed our market-leading signature agreement workflow products directly into third-party products. We do some of that today, but we’re not set up well to serve developers today. So we’ve got a couple of quarters of work to do to really provide a world-class set of componentized tools that allow developers to pick and choose from all the things we have to create the most compelling agreement experiences inside of their products. That’s going to be a really important growth driver. But I’m not going at this time to comment on the exact magnitude.

Yes. It’s a great question. I would say we’re at the earlier phases of our verticalization strategy. We’ve long had a special suite of tools for the real estate industry. I think they are best-in-class and we’ll continue to tweak and improve on that. More recently, we’ve done some, I think, really nice work, for example, in the healthcare space, where we’ve added some compliance with a variety of federal regulations that enables our products to be used for healthcare applications, and that’s driven some really nice growth. I think we have opportunities and this is an active part of our product planning to basically have our products sufficiently componentized that we can easily create custom workflows that are tailored to individual industries.

So, I mean, obvious example, if you have something for mortgages, it’s not that different from a loan application, it’s not that different from an automotive car purchase. And those are all sectors that we already have business in and where I think we have opportunities to create deeper vertical agreements. Another example is government. And so, we have big opportunities in the government space as well. But I’d say we’re -- we’ve got some work to do to really fully capitalize on the verticalization opportunity that you alluded to, which I totally agree with.

It’s really across all of those. So, we are absolutely directing investment dollars towards accelerating our product like growth motion, and so that absolutely. But in addition to that, we direct additional investment dollars into accelerating our agreement workflow road map into the CLM space and into our cloud migration. I think many of you are aware that we’re in the process of migrating our suite to Microsoft Azure, a very strong relationship with Microsoft. And this is a really important year for that migration to move some of the core workloads and some of the core compute and storage there. And so, we felt that was deserving of more investment because once we get there, we get more scalability, we can do more of the verticalization that was referred to, we can do -- we can better meet local requirements in international markets. And so it’s just for a variety of reasons a really important migration. It won’t be completed this year, but it -- we will really get going in a material way here in fiscal ‘24. So, those are all areas for incremental product investment beyond the self-serve PLG side.

Yes. I mean, very quickly, we -- I’d say the most successful one, and I alluded to this earlier, was what we call a new co-bundle, so new customer acquisition where we bundled our core e-signature product with a couple of key options, SMS and single sign-on, and we had a baseline services offering to accelerate onboarding. And that was a really nice bundle. Some of our highest value features that we feel are most highly correlated with both customer satisfaction and renewal and getting people off to a good start, really is helpful for renewal as well. So again, that was the most successful, worked really well, and we need to do more of that.

Okay. Just quick, let’s just wrap up here. Thank you all for joining and for your support as we continue to evolve our business. In closing, while this past year was challenging, the changes we’re making are vital to driving our long-term growth and success. I think we delivered a solid finish to the year, and we are prioritizing our investment focus on the areas, which we believe will drive increased value for our customers, employees and shareholders. I’m really excited about the steps we’ve taken to accelerate innovation, improve and diversify our go-to-market and support our vision of smarter, easier and trusted agreements. I look forward to sharing more with all of you as the year progresses. Thank you.