Alok Maskara
Lennox International Inc. (LII) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. I'll take that, Jeff. On our own internal -- I mean I always think we can get more working capital improvements, but I think we are reaching a level, especially given the upcoming A2L transition, but I think the levels are going to be relatively flat. We might have to build up some towards the second half of 2024, and that's embedded in the guide just to ensure a smooth transition. On the independent China, I mean, honestly, the destocking in Q4 was more than we expected. And we do think there's going to be some destocking happening in Q1, especially on product line eases whether that's impact of weather and all, we don't know. But I think from overall, we do expect some destocking bleeding into Q1, but remain confident that by second half or Q2, independent channel distribution destocking would be largely behind us, especially as the distributors get ready for a A2L transition and the EPA ruling allows them some sell-through in 2024 as well. So lots of moving pieces, but we've embedded all of that in the guide, Jeff.

And I think if I could add to that, Nigel, keep in mind, the factory inefficiency both for the start-up in Saltillo or the commercial factory and for the A2L conversion, but that's fairly massive transformation we have to do. Every line has to be redone. We'll have tiers of factory shutdown. So we bake in all of that -- so I understand your question. It's just we got to -- we baked in all of those inefficiencies in our guide.

Sure. First of all, you should give me the list of all those people that were telling you that. So we can go and negotiate, use their work on that. I'd love to get that Nigel. But no, more seriously, some of it comes down to the starting point. In some cases, on components, we did have long-term contracts that are coming up for renewal. So we may have like escaped some of the inflation in the past. The other thing you've got to see in the 410A, I mean, the spot pricing, the contract pricing and where we are still a lot of moving pieces. But based on the production quota reduction from EPA, we fully expect and have baked in inflation on 410A. And overall, I mean inflation is lower than before, but it's not gone away, whether it's SG&A or NAV factors. So we've built all of that in as we looked at what's going to happen in 2024 for us. but we do continue to see inflation in components, especially if our long-term contracts come up for renewal.

Thanks, Nigel.

I think, Tommy, on the overall, we stick to the 10% to 15% total pricing impact by 2025. A large part of that is going to happen in 2025 as like in our 54 products start getting launched towards the tail end or second half of this year. So we will see a lot more of that benefit next year than they will see this year which is unfortunate because we'll see some of the manufacturing inefficiencies this year as we transition our line from 410 to 454B, a lot more of the benefit coming to as tail half of this year or like early next year is when we start seeing those benefits. But our view and outlook has not changed on that, and I was glad to see that others in the industry are also now catching up to that dynamic because there's extra cost of sensors, there's extra cost of controls, there's extra cost that we're going to do as we look at the heating capacity, compressors. There's just a lot of extra cost that we must offset.

Sure. I expected that to be one of the first question. I'm surprised it was a third question on the call today. So but [indiscernible]. Listen, I'll start by saying a few things, right? First of all, in the past, even before my time, Lennox has been very clear that if there is an industry consolidation opportunity, Lennox will like to participate. And we have specifically named out companies that we would like to participate if that came on.

So let me just confirm that, that view has not changed. We still believe that if there's an opportunity that Lennox would be a participant in that. Overall, when I look at it industry consolidation, it's good for quite a few reasons. As we look at increased regulations, as we look at dealer consolidation. I think we'll better serve our customers. We'll better look at technology to come to the consumer. I think it gives us the right kind of investments that we can make to succeed.

So I think it's going to be good. We would like to participate as and when things become clear and available. I don't want to comment specifically on any specific company and the news. But all I can tell you is that we don't have to do this. I mean, we are very confident in our own stand-alone strategy as well. We have sufficient scale to compete.

We are gaining share in respective segments. We have like a very good technology team and a great path forward. So I think that's kind of the balanced outlook on that is if there's an opportunity, we would like to participate, but we're also very confident on where we are positioned ourselves.

Sure. I think overall, we expect that to get even by 2025. I mean, in the independent channels of the distribution channel, we fully expect, because of comps and because of inventory get to appropriate level, increase in sales versus last year. We're not sure of the timing on when that stops, given all the comps and everything else. But we do think inventory levels and order patterns normalize and we will see a bounce back in our sales to the channel, irrespective of what happens from the channel to the dealer.

On the dealer side, we were pleased with the resiliency that we saw, although volumes were down, they were better than most of us expected. And that resiliency gives us comfort going into 2024, and we expect and have baked in sort of flat to down numbers on that going into 2024. Just because of all the chatter around repair, replace, interest rate, election year, which so far has not turned out to be true, but we want to kind of make sure we put all of that and let [you guys] decide. Like here are assumptions that you can decide how you look at it. We focused on what we control, and we know we are going to win share through the transition, and we are recovering our service levels nicely.

No, no functional differences to be aware of. We simplified it from 3 to 2. We had some internal confusion going on between business unit name and segment name so we embarked on a new branding, which I guess the positive message. Overall, at Lennox, we have not focused on building a brand with dealers and consumers, and there were just different confusion going on. We simplified our websites. We have huge investments in improving our customers' experience, introducing new technology, updating even our e-mail addresses and our lennonx.com.

It was part of a big rebranding exercise. It was just about time to differentiate residential segment from business unit, but I wouldn't read anything more to it besides just simplifying our internal nomenclature and better reflecting what we do, right? Because what was called commercial also had a tiny bit of refrigeration in there. So I do think the new names better reflect what we do and are more consistent with our new branding guidelines.

Sure. Let's start with me and the highest level on the executive staff. So last year was the first year where our short-term incentives had a growth component or a revenue component to it. So 20% of our [indiscernible] STI now comes from growth. And that just changed the mindset. Just to give you an example, but let's take it down to a few levels on where it really matters. So if you think about sales incentives and compensation, it used to be the other way around because only on revenue are not enough on profits and margins. So as we talked about accountability, autonomy and in deploying all of that in the sales force, we are now measuring our sales team more on profits, more like a distributor would measure them versus purely on revenue.

So that's kind of the 2 switches on the more senior level, more focused on growth and on the street level, more focused on profitability and profit margins. And that's a long journey because you can't change these things overnight, especially if they have been seeped into the culture for many, many years. But we are pleased with the early results and fully prepared for the long-term journey as we add technology and finance score cards and metrics-driven behavior versus the storytelling behavior, sometimes pleased to get there.

Sure, I'll start, and then Michael will jump in. Because we really did not consider consensus was giving guidance, and we don't give guidance by quarter. But here's what we did, right? We laid out the volume assumptions on Page 11, so you can look through that. And that kind of brackets are low end and the high end, all on the volume assumptions. As we look at it, Q1 is going to be a little weird because we get more mix benefits, as Michael said earlier, because last year, we still had old SEER and new SEER products. Some of the price increases go into effect in February for us, as you saw along with the other competition. So you get only half a quarter benefit on that. And seasonality will be similar to what we have seen unless there are any unusual weather patterns. So honestly, we didn't spend tons of time looking at quarter-over-quarter. We were just thinking of the longer term where we are focused and drive that. Michael, what would you add to that?

I mean I think from our perspective, we like where we are positioned. So let's start that like we think we are positioned in an attractive market. That happens to be North America, but it could be somewhere else. I mean what we look for is attractive end markets, where we can win, where we can succeed, where we can generate the appropriate returns. I don't think we exited Europe because of Europe. We exited because the margin profile was weak, and we did think we were positioned to win there.

So I don't want to make any specific comments and rule anything in or out at this stage. But we will look at those things is how does it benefit our shareholders? Are we positioned to win. Does it create attractive opportunities for us versus share buyback? I mean, end of the day, we have done very well, and we'll continue to do well based on share buyback. But I mean we're going to look for markets where we are positioned to win.

Sure. So I'll tell you, it's maybe a tale of 2 halves that is quite a few moving pieces, but let's talk positives, right? I mean our order rate remains strong. Our backlog although doesn't matter, but in the short-term backlog remains solid. Our sales team is pretty excited and we see no impact of any of the things that we read about, whether it's KBI index and all that, we do see some projects moving to the right. So we are a bit cautious as we go into it. We also -- as we talk to our key accounts find a lot of enthusiasm around the R454B product and are somewhat concerned that maybe towards mid- to late this year, they might say, "well, I'll just wait for the 454B versus take the existing product."

So that's kind of baked into us, we looked at the guide for different competing factors, just to go back to it, pleased with the current order rate, please with the current backlog, freeze with our production output excited about this Saltillo factory, even adding more to our output because we remain supply constrained versus demand constraint. And they just want to reflect some of the noise/what we see in the future is slow in construction and any weird air pocket that could come in if you look at 454B transition.

We saw that too -- and I'm sorry, I missed you at the HRI show, but like I went to all the boots and it was impressive on some of the overseas players and the amount of money spent on the booth. I'll tell you the amount of money they spend in the pools correlated to the market share in U.S., it probably more reflects their aspirations for the future. I think what these players have done very well, it comes to mini splits and VRF, but if it comes to traditional unitary products, I think very few -- if any of them had any success, and that's where the core U.S. market remains very, very different and you know many splits and all are still in single-digit market share overall and had a tough year in '23. But listen, we are -- on the only -- we are the only unaffiliated player in U.S.

So we look at the international players, both as a threat and as an opportunity to be able to work with them to drive our joint market share in some areas. But we also look at it as a threat. So that's the way we look at it, but we were pleased with the interest we are getting on our own new products like at AHRI, we were pleased with people excited about new production capacity we're adding, the emergency replacement products that we displayed and just general energy from our sales team on how robust the activity was. It was the highest attendance AHRI show has had, which kind of makes me more optimistic on the economy than what I read in the newspapers.

Sure. I mean, historically, these transitions had a lot of prebuy from the independent channel. But because of the confusing EPA rulings that came out in sort of November, December, I think the channel is -- just a little concern about landing up with obsolete products. And since they see the manufacturers being pretty prepared, they may not feel the need higher interest rate works in that environment as well. And the overall given how much inventory people were holding because of the CEO transition just 2 years ago because of the COVID disruption a year ago. Some of the distributors are just working with us and saying, why don't you manage that for us?

Make sure your lead times are low, and I can get it quickly. I may not want to spend a warehousing space and the cash to build up. Now but listen, if you're wrong, we will have upside in '24 and downside in '25. I mean over a 2-year period, it normalizes anyway. So we will be prepared if people decide to have a prebuy, but based on as we were looking at it, we just said, let's not take any of that in.

That slide went through so many changes over the past 48 hours. We tried to give a range. We tried to -- but listen, if you're starting the year and you got $175 million of CapEx, you're not going to reach 100 in a 3-year period, right? I mean, just where we are. But in the long term, I think we'll get to 100 at some investments.

Yes, 15% to 20%, like it's higher on our direct model, lower on the indirect side, probably in the range of...

Yes, it below 20 overall. But listen, 1 thing is our cash flow, we don't do any adjustments, right? I mean this is our -- the checkbook balances.

Sure. I'll let Michael answer the second one, and then I'll come back to the first one. So Michael, why don't you go ahead.

And I think to the first question on weather. I learned early in my career, Ryan, that never ever talk about weather when you have a challenging number set to be delivered. But based on like where we are, yes, Q4, we had some of the kind of the warmest winter, and that did negatively impact our daily order rates and we track the same things you guys would track on average heating days and cooling days. And yes, Q1 with the cold streak, we have had a good start based on, as you would expect on the weather, but we don't know what tomorrow looks like or February looks like, but both your statements are correct, Ryan.

No. I think the second one for us, it’s just kind of rounding because – we give longer numbers, we’ll get some benefit this year as well. So I’ll try to portray what 2025 looks like, right? So that’s just rounding. Maybe I should just stop giving ranges and pick a center line like 15 here.

Tim, on the first one, there’s still some uncertainties and EPA is not coming up with the final rule, they have indicated to rules. Listen, our preference would be not to make 410A products. But based on currently the way it’s written; we’ll probably be forced to make some 410A products next year. And that would be then impacting the 10% to 15% number because there will be some 410A products, they’re going through the factories as people can repair outdoor units using new 410A products. I know it’s a weird dynamic there. So still waiting for some clarity on that. We would prefer not to make 454 – not to be 410A for manufacturing efficiency and other reasons, but we are just at a stage that we’ve got to see how the final rules plays out and how each of the state adopts it, too.

I think when the time is right, we'll have that discussion with the board and put it all together. I mean, from our perspective, that have to be an opportunistic discussion on something that's attractive to the company. But yes, if it's attractive to our shareholders and we need to lever up. The key question would be is, would we get back to our preferred leverage range within a year or 2. I mean that's what our focus is going to be. So you can do the math backwards, right? I mean as long as we think there's real cash, and then we can use that cash to get back to our long-term leverage goals within a couple of years. I think we could make that work. But investment grade thing is important to us, right? I mean we are not in [indiscernible] shop or anything else like that. We'll maintain investment grade.

Yes, I think it'd be closer to 100 million, 110, not 75 to 100. Just growth and maintenance built into that, right? Maintenance might be 75, 80, but to support our growth, we probably will add more. So I would say it's north of 100.

I saw you from far in a different company booth, but you're holding a good audience, I didn't interrupt.

Sure. I'll start. So I think the overall, as we talked about price increases, we talked about doing residential new construction price increase in the middle of 2023. That did go ahead as expected and as we looked at the overall drop-through that is about what we expected, maybe a share worse than we expected, to be honest. And I think that just came down to the mix between residential new construction and the seasonality baked in there. Not a whole lot of R&C gets shipped towards in the Q4 time frame.

So from that perspective, that went as we expected. We have key account price increases going into effect this year, mostly early this year, and we know we announced a price increase, broader 1 and that goes into effect in February. So all the pricing actions that we talked about is gone as we had expected. We remain comfortable on where we are. And it's been good to see that the whole industry moving in that direction as well.

Sure. So I think with the key distributor, they're already seeing the spec. We're already going through the training and all that. First physical product probably comes out in the second half of this year. And we will start with sort of the high-end products, I think the consumer's appetite for going to R54B is going to be more and faster. And then we will slowly transition towards the lower year and the lower-end products. So we'll start with the higher end towards the middle of the year. And we are on track or ahead of schedule on each of those things. We don't expect any R454B for meaningful sales, can we put on a showcase on display booths in first half of this year, yes. But for somebody to actually place a PU and buy would be in the second half of this year.

Yes. So listen, we were close to 0. I think we hit double digit in '23 in terms of trying to get to emergency replacement. Barely, I would say, high single digit, double digits in 2023, and that includes both our direct and going to through our distribution partners. And we still think there's a lot of room ahead. We probably won't move that needle until Saltillo comes in production in the second half of this year. So expect us to hover in high single digits, low double digits until Saltillo comes online.

Listen, as we talk to our distribution partners, and we're very close to them. It's not the channel inventory had more talk than we thought. And yes, with the EPA ruling and then everything, the channel essentially flows in Q4, especially they're worried that for a while remember the fear was that you would not be able to sell 410A products, unless it was replacement starting December 2024. So I think that ruling created just a freeze mentality in our channel, which I'm glad EPA issued some clarification and coming up with final ruling. But the direct business holding out better than we thought was actually a positive. I mean, which means the consumer is being resilient, and we were pleased with that resiliency.

Now being the CEO of Lennox, I also think we gained share, so that's something we will watch out for as numbers normalize. It's hard to figure out share dynamics right now given things are unclear on how much of it is us winning share and how much is the fact that we are going direct, but I mean, from numbers that we see, I mean, we gain lots of shares. We just need to figure out how much of that is transitionary versus rail.

IRA has become such a topic for the past 12 months with very little to show for you kind of stopped banking on it and one aspect of IRA, which was through the SEER tax credits that's kind of flowing through in some cases, some states are renewing it on their own. I don't think any of us saw the big impact we were expecting from IRA, but we're starting to see drips and dribblers. If the government really gets their act together and figure out this whole income qualification criteria to get the IRA piece, which there's no practical way to do it for a dealer right now, then I do think there's upside left, but we're not counting on it right now, especially given the election year, I don't know if the government will put this as a priority to figure it out with the state governments and dealers on how to make that work. But the rest of it is kind of slowly dripping in.

Yes, that's a valid.

It's more the latter on an overall basis. But listen, if I speak to 1 salesperson in 1 corner, they will convince me that there's an intense price competition in their own territory, and that's why they're not meeting their numbers. But if you ignore those individual data points and you look at a broader trend, right now, the price seems to be sticking across the board. And it's no accident. I mean, the costs are going up too. I mean if you look at the overall margins, margins expanding nowhere close to what the pricing number we talk about. So some of it is just recovering the cost that we went through and are continuing to have to burden as we look at higher SEER products, new A2L refrigerants, better efficiency compressors and the labor and material inflation. So I don't see that going backwards because manufacturers have to offset the extra costs we are incurring.
