Aman Narang
Toast, Inc. (TOST) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Thanks, Will. I'll start by saying, if you look at pricing, it's an important lever for us, but we plan to use it gradually as part of a broader strategy. We've been at this for over a decade, and we're continuing to invest in our restaurant-specific platform, to help restaurants thrive. And I think our customers understand that we continue to invest in this platform that we will increase prices over time.

If you look at our new customers that are joining our platform, they're paying us more across both SaaS and fintech. And over time, we expect that existing customers, we will make those adjustments gradually, and it's going to be a lever that we'll use over time.

Operator, we'll take the next question.

Yes. Thanks Harshita. Look, we've seen continue to see fairly balanced between new opening and existing restaurants. Post-COVID, we saw a bit of tailwind from new restaurants, but that hasn't tailed off in any material way.

I'd also just say, if you zoom out, we've been at this for over a decade. And we're the first to build this vertically innovative restaurant-specific platform, and we'll continue to invest.

And what we see is across both existing restaurants and new restaurants, we see our sales team able to continue to create market share across both. This is across FSRs and QSRs. And so even in a world where there's some movement in terms of the number of new openings, and we're confident in our ability to continue to gain share.
Yes. I'm happy, Tien-Tsin. Thanks for the question. I'll repeat actually what I just said. If you think about our mission, we've been at this for 12 years now. And we were the first ones to build a platform that was purpose-built for the restaurant industry. And the team is continuing to invest to make it accessible across all restaurants, right, starting in the U.S. and over time globally.

If you look in the near-term, like SMBs continue to drive the majority of our growth, and we see a lot of runway as we gain share. We've talked about how as we get into markets, I talked about this in my prepared remarks. We see more and more markets getting into flywheel state, which is markets that have over 20% share.

And then we're also expanding our products to go after the broader TAM, starting with the U.S. TAM, and enterprise market as well as mid-market and the SMB and then in international markets as well. The impact to GPV as we expand this TAM should be minimal and gradual. Our average location, we expect will continue to remain above industry averages.

And as we mentioned, like this year, we expect ARPU to continue to grow in 2024 to complement our location growth and be a vector of growth. And the team is very focused on making sure that as we get into new parts of TAM, we are looking at payback periods to make sure that we have healthy unit economics across the broader TAM.

Sure. Thanks, Tien-Tsin. Yes, one of the things we just rolled out was pricing and packaging 3.0, the new version, and it's really helping our new business reps optimize with location growth as well as maximizing ARPU upfront, and we're balancing that with our upsell team that we're continuing to scale.

In terms of the product attach rates, there's nothing that's fundamentally changed. We're seeing healthy growth across our employee cloud products, our fintech products, our guest products.

And the R&D team continue to focus on getting customer feedback as we continue to scale locations to see what are ways in which we can increase terminal attach in terms of expanding the product market fit for these products. But we continue to see healthy growth across the portfolio of products that we offer. Thanks Tien-Tsin. Operator, we'll take the next one.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Sheldon. I mean I mentioned this in my prepared remarks, but even in our markets where we have the highest SMB penetration, this is over 30%, we're still seeing some of the strongest rep productivity and some of the strongest conversion in productivity.

I think a lot of that is driven by just the social proof. As we make more customers successful in these markets, we continue to see strong growth. So, we haven't seen any change in terms of the rate at which customers are joining our platform and as we get more share in these local markets.

The only thing I'll add is, in those markets, we see tremendous potential for growth, right? It's still in the early days of, I think, what's possible. The reception we see from these customers in these markets is very similar to what we saw in the U.S. in the early days, and we want to make sure that we're able to get these markets to a great spot before we think about expanding beyond that.

Thank you.

Sure. Thanks for the question. Look, I think we mentioned this in our last earnings call as well. Our -- as we optimize our land-and-expand motion, the new customers that are joining Toast, our sales team is optimizing the number of locations as well as the product attach rates and so the ARPU is slightly lower.

And then that's complemented with our upsell team. The upsell team, those are teams that are regionalized, that take over, and are looking to drive attach rates across the product portfolio.

I think if you look at -- if you just zoom out for a second and think about the growth potential in the business, we're confident in our ability to continue to drive sustained ARR growth across both locations and ARPU and we believe both of those will complement each other.

And so I think over time, as we continue to improve the capabilities across our product portfolio and improve our pricing and packaging, and our upsell motion, there should be continued levers of growth for us into the future.

Yes, I think that's fair. I think you think of pricing as a gradual lever, right, that complements both locations and product attach rates.

Thank you.

Go ahead Samad.

Okay. I was just going to say if you look at our business, the bulk of our net adds continue to come from our core SMB business, right? We reached 1,000 locations over a couple of years. And as we build out the full platform internationally and see the improvements in our payback periods and the unit economics, that's where we'll look to put the pedal down even further. And so in terms of any changes to our mix across GPV and ARPU, you shouldn't expect that to be material in the short term.

Yes, hey Josh, thanks for the question. As I mentioned earlier, SMBs continue to drive the majority of our growth, and we see tremendous runway there. In fact, a lot of the growth and expansion into restaurant retail was driven by our existing restaurants because many of them also offer market and grocery and wine and wanted a single platform across all these businesses.

We do think that the GPV and ARPU potential in these businesses, if anything, is stronger. But in terms of if you just zoom out and think about what's driving the bulk of our net adds, it's going to continue to be SMBs and, over time, mid-market enterprise and international, and then beyond that, restaurant retail.

Yes, I think so over time. Like, if you just zoom out and think about our capabilities that we offer, we started in the restaurant vertical by building this purpose-built platform. That's exclusively built, and that's really what's allowed us to scale and gain market share to being one of the market leaders.

As we think beyond this and expand the platform and the portfolio of products that we offer, and the go-to-market engine that we have and the customer success engine that we have, we certainly think there's opportunity for us to expand beyond.

But our focus right now is really in markets where food is served, right? You're seeing these lines between restaurants and retail blur. And a lot of these concepts want a single system because they want a single back end that they can use to back all of this data, and that's where we're starting.

Thanks Josh.

Yes. Thanks for the question Darrin. Look, we're proud of the team's progress over the past year with new brands. Like, if you just look at Choice and Caribou, which I talked about in my prepared remarks, Marriott in expansion with existing customers, like Nothing Bundt Cakes and MTY.

If you just zoom out, we started investing in enterprise business just a couple of years ago. It's really great to see the progress we've made in a short period of time. And we're also seeing really good healthy pipeline and inbound requests from customers.

But you got to keep in mind, these are enterprise customers. These are long cycles. And we want to be balanced also in terms of which customers we partner with so it does not distract our R&D teams where a single customer has custom work that can take over our product road maps.

In terms of some of the capabilities in ARPU, I think it starts by building out some of just the core capabilities, enterprise config management, publishing, security, compliance, data APIs.

And over time, like if you look at the reasons SMBs choose Toast, all the platform capabilities in terms of in-store and things like handhelds, for example, Mobile Order & Pay and Kiosk, we believe over time, a lot of those will be applicable in the enterprise market as well. But you should expect this to be a gradual, continued momentum upmarket as we expand TAM as opposed to a step-function change in terms of how we're gaining share.

Yes. Look, I think this has always been a competitive market, right, from day one when we started this business. What we see in our data is, as we execute and get into more of the markets, restaurants are still local. And the more share we get, the more social proof we have, the more of a flywheel effect it creates. That's the most important trend that we see in our business.

Our team obviously is tracking at win rates and competitive dynamics in the market. We've been at this for so long and we've built this vertically integrated platform and expanded it over time, and that's what's really driving our growth more than anything else.

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks Dominic for the question. Look, as I said earlier, as I stepped in and looked at the business, I think it's important to remember, pricing is an important lever, but it's one lever, and we want to make sure we're using it gradually as part of a broader strategy.

One of the focus areas we continue to gain market share and scale is to look at opportunities to continue to expand the terminal attach rates of the product that we have to drive ARPU, and that's a really important driver of ARPU.

In terms of the opportunity, specifically in pricing, you look at new customers that are joining our platform. What we see is across both SaaS and payments, they're paying us more than our base.

And so we do see an opportunity over time to go back and build it as an ongoing lever, as part of our growth algorithm, to complement location growth as well as product attach. And I think you should expect that to be gradual over time, starting with fintech this year and then SaaS in the out-years.

Yes. Dominic as I said earlier, a lot of this was driven by our customer base. Our customers really pull us into these hybrid restaurant retail concepts because more and more of them offer not just the restaurant environment, but also, they may offer packaged goods in a market, they may offer grocery, wine, and so these lines are blurring.

And the way our team thinks about it is, anywhere food is served, we think that our platform that we built over the past decades offers us an opportunity to go create incremental value for those customers. And so we're starting there and then I think over time, we'll look at where else Toast can be applicable.

Thank you.

Yes. Thank you, everybody, for your time today.
