Amir Aghdaei
Envista Holdings Corporation (NVST) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Of course. Thank you, Elizabeth. Thanks for asking the question. As we move through Q4 and as we close the quarter, it became really apparent to us several key factors. To be specific, one is around the macro environment. We do not expect 2024 to be any different than what we have seen in the past several quarters. Uncertain economic environment interest rate, inflation, consumer sentiment, we see that demand for our high-end dental procedures is going to be below long run growth expectation, and we are cautioned about capital spending. Specifically on DSOs and some clinicians and inventory management, on top of the geopolitical uncertainties, we do not think that, that would change over time.

So with that backdrop, that has impact in our mix. So, if you take a look at it, that backdrop of macro really impact some of our highest most profitable businesses in different geographies. In addition, the growth that we are seeing today in our Spark that accelerate that mix change over time. As an outcome of that, we did a series of scenario planning. We look at opportunities and risk. We also take a look at what we need to do to put the organization in the format that we can create long-term value, realign investment it's been margin expansion and the Spark and growth. Go back to the North America implant now that we have a really good feel for what it takes to invigorate the growth in there as well as the G&A spending. And we thought we need to be more caution in here, provide a guidance that considers all that background.

Of course, if the environment improves as we go forward, we have an opportunity to perform better. And we think throughout the year, we'll see acceleration of our margin as well as our growth throughout the year every quarter. That's basically our assessment and assumption on how we put that guidance in place.

Yes. And we have been fairly consistent, as you know about creating long-term value by expanding growth, by expanding margin, by shifting our portfolio, we don't think that really has radically changed. That framework that we have created in the past four, four and a half years has stayed intact. The realities of what we're dealing within here is one, we have a new leadership information.

As CFO, hopefully soon to be named, we are placing the Nobel, our implant president over time, and we wanted to make sure that we have a solid leadership team in place. We also wanted to show progression on those three key priorities that we talked about, Spark growth and margin, Nobel back to growth as well as resizing our infrastructure.

We wanted to show tangible result and show the progression in there, and then come back and have a discussion about long-term guidance that we have provided. We think that over time, our view around growth, margin and portfolio is still valid, and we need to talk about the capital structure as well. That's why we decided to postpone that conversation, and here we are in a better place to provide better insight. We're not canceling it, we are postponing it, and it should be ready when the team is in place, when we have momentum to come back and have that conversation.

We're working on it. We have been working on it, as I mentioned. Continuously, we have some very strong candidates, and our goal is to have that name as quickly as possible in the near future.

Thanks, Jeff. Very good question. But let me answer that margin first, then we'll talk about the pricing in specifically. So mix, as I mentioned, plays such an important role in here. When we put the plan together in 2022 and also the long-term plan that we put in place, there is a set of assumption about the mix that we are putting in place. As you correctly pointed out, mix has shifted over time.

The China challenges, Russia challenges, and these are the businesses that have the most impact in our margin. If you take a look at it, in our Bracket & Wires business, which one of the most profitable business that we have. One third of that business is outside United States. And where it has been impacted the most are those geographies that they are in the middle of these geopolitical challenges.

So, you take a look at that and we consider that would not change, not in near-term going forward. We have considered the impact of volume based purchases in China. 35% to 40% price reduction in our implant business, despite the fact that we have responded to that and we have seen significant growth, it had direct impact in our margin structure.

And last but not least, the shift in Spark, the higher, the faster that this growth, it is below average, and it has a significant impact in our margin structure. If I take the VBP out, we actually got price. We were able to get good momentum on various pieces of our business. I should have mentioned one more thing, and that's the IOS.

Despite the fact that that grew almost 30% last year, the prices were declining very quickly. I'm talking about Q4 that is stabilized. But now we have a stable situation. We know what that'll look like. With that, we made assumption that, let's assume nothing radically changes in here. Let's not hope that the macro will change radically. Let's not assume the geopolitical will get a lot better going forward.

But coming back to your question about impact, we have not seen a degradation or price reduction on our premium impact. That has not been the case. It is had the discussion in here specifically on North America has not been about price. It has been around customer experience. It has been around training and education. It has been around the community and clinical community. And in comparison, this is exactly what we saw in 2019. We corrected it in Europe. We saw 14 quarters of growth. We took 300 basis points of share. We're replicating that model in North America. Price was not a factor in Europe, and we do not think it's going to be a major factor on the premium side of our business.

I will answer that, but I want to just define one that specific. About 50% of our business is North America, 50% outside North America. That 50% that is outside North America has been going mid-single-digit with the same product. In the past, five months specifically, we have done a detailed analysis interviewing 100 of doctors I've done a competitive study of our product, our pricing, our coverage, and what we have seen, product is not the most important thing in how we have really not performed as well as we should have performed in here. If I may, I give you a little bit of more detail in here, I think it would be helpful. The 200,000 dentists in North America, 70% of our implant are placed by less than 5% of those dentists. There are two group in that category of a 10,000. Let's say 50% of them are specialists. These specialists depend on a referral network. That is 50% are GPs that they provide one stop solution. The diagnose, the plant, the placing plant and the work with labs or they have in house lab to provide that prosthetics.

Both this group, which is a target for our premium impact, have three major requirements. Okay. Customer experience. And customer experience has a very wide definition about coverage, about order management, about return. Clinical training, training that has really hit the mark. And the model has changed over time. You got to provide a wide range of training online through social media, through clinical advisory team and at the local level.

And last but not least, a lot of it is for advocacy. If you have individuals that they advocate and show result and teach it to other people, and that would have an impact. And that's the definition of what we call community, customer experience, coverage go-to-market, training education, advocacy, or clinical support.

You take a look at those and you figure out that what has really been a challenge for us, we haven't done as good job building this referral network, a lot of those have been acquired by DSOs. We need to work with these specialists to provide support and training to them, study clubs, lunch and learn. So they can rebuild that referral network at the local level. We need to make sure the training education that we provide is relevant. This is exactly what we did in Europe. We took the decision to go at the local level. And when I mentioned local level, I don't even mean countries. We went to Madrid. We went to Barcelona. We went to Paris. We replicated this model, and we have seen growth. We have seen growth continuously. We're doing exactly the same thing in North America. I'm not suggesting yet that the product is not an issue. I'm not saying that it's irrelevant. But what I am responding to your question that we are in a good place from brand, from recognition, from product, from pricing, from quality, what we do from operations, we need to change our commercial execution, marketing and training education. That's what we're after. That's what we are doing as we speak.

Of course.

Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Erin. So, it's worth mentioning a couple of things. In China, as you know, Q4 of 2022 as well as the Q1 of 2023, we really didn't have a whole lot of business. First, it was COVID and then VBP, and then we had this, for lack of better word, we had this zoom boom that we saw in U.S. inside G2 of 2023 in China, and we have seen more of a stabilization, the stabilization of the patient volume, and that's what we are counting on.

And that assumption that what we saw in Q3, Q4 is carrying itself forward throughout at least the first months of this year. Outside of that, what we are seeing is a stabilization of a patient volume. We have a really good relationship with a large number of DSOs. That's what they tell us. That’s what we see, spending per patient has been challenging for a lot of these DSOs in the past several months. And that's what we see. And how is that impacted is because of these high-end procedures. Adult orthodontic cases, full RS restorations, $25,000 to $30,000 that can get postpone. So far, during the year, what we have seen is a consistent with what we saw in Q4, not a radical change one way or another.

Of course.

Yeah. Of course. I definitely understand where you're coming from, and This is a challenge that we are trying to make sure that we are thoughtful about this, and we put a guidance in place that considers the realities of what we see in price, we are well aware of where we started in 2021, 2022, where we have ended up in 2023.

So I want to give take us back to about Q4. Steven talked about that, where we ended up in Q4. Those dynamics that you talked about, John, is exactly what we are faced. The Spark is rapidly growing. It's growing and becoming such a bigger part of our equation. And if you go back, we're a year ahead of what we have considered where we not needed to be. That one year ahead has significant impact in that mix equation, one. Two, I mentioned that repeatedly because it's worth mentioning it again. The Bracket & Wires business is not a business that is going rapidly, but we have been taking share. And the reason we have been taking share because one-third of our business is sitting outside developed market.

This business is that being growing high single digit, double digit with the high margin. That is not in the picture. It wasn't in the picture. It is not coming back as rapidly as we expect. And not only that, we're faced with the VBP in China, which is really uncertain when it's going to happen. We are assuming second half of this year. We want to be thoughtful again, not to be surprised.

This volume that is impacting us on the high margin and areas like Russia and China, it is really radically changing that mix. The North America Nobel, we know we're going to turn this around. There is So there's no question in my mind because we know exactly where the problem and the challenges are, but it's going to take some time. We have to layer some investment, in order to be able to get it to that market growth over time, you combine all of that. You put in place to say, I'm not going to make any assumption on macro. The realities are what the realities are. If it changes, absolutely.

We'd be the first one to come back and communicate that. But what we see today, what we saw in the past several months is the realities that we are dealing with, and we wanted to make sure that we are thoughtful about this. We put a guidance in place that we can deliver on it. We put the right set of measures and growth and margin in place to be able to deliver on what we promised.

Yes. Thank you. Thanks, Nate. So let's just work through that a little bit and see if we can build a kind of a bridge in here. So every quarter, the spot margin has improved every quarter. It is coming up every quarter, and we expect that trend to continue. As it ramps up we've doubled the business over three years. Our goal is to get it to the fleet average. So for that to take place, we got to see this progression every quarter. And the other part of that equation is Nobel. Nobel is one of our most profitable businesses.

We expect that to get to market proxies by end of the year. So if you start where we were for the whole year in Q4 and start making progress every quarter, we're going to see this margin progression throughout the year. We think Q1 is going to be nominally better than Q4, and we expect as we go through the year, we want to see that progression every quarter. We see better performance on margin until we get to end of Q4.

And that's what we put that guidance in place to take a look at. It range that we can manage with the opportunity if macro improves we respond to it as necessary.

Of course, sir. So what we saw in Q4, China sales increased by almost 15%. And that's as you mentioned, that's a good indication of cost played a really important role in it. But if I take a look at the entire year, China was flat. And, normally, about 10% of our business have had been going double digit for years. And so in 2024, what we see in here, Q1, because of easier comp, we expect a strong growth. As we go through Q2 to Q4, we're going to have a more difficult comp in here.

VBP of implant comes in place, so we know exactly what that look like, but it's more of a moderate thing. Our assumption is that the ortho VBP is going to be in place in second half, and that's how we have planned for. If it doesn't happen, then, okay, we will have a different model to discuss. We expect some volatility in China and the reason for it is purely because of the consumer spending and sentiment.

What we hear from our team, what you hear, I'm sure, the housing crisis, the slower growth and government intervention in some of the areas, we are considering all of that to be an issue and that we need to deal with, but we have not taken our eyes out of China.

We think China is going to be a growth driver for Envista. It's underpenetrated. We've got a great reputation in brass. Our specialty business is really well positioned. We just need to deal with these short term issues and find the new model, transform our business as we did with our implant, do that on ortho, get ourself in a better place on equipment and consumable, and we expect this to stabilize as we go forward.

The patient demand in China, based on the latest information that we have, seems to be resilient as it stabilized. We're not getting any major feedback that we are seeing a major change as you can imagine. February 9, Chinese New Year 2016, we're going to have a little bit of a breaking year. Our hope is after they come back, we're going to see that momentum to continue.

Thank you very much for Thank you for your time with us today. We really appreciate it. We look forward to, talking look forward to delivering our 2024 key priorities and we'll talk to you next quarter. Thank you very much.