Andrew Anagnost
Autodesk, Inc. (ADSK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. Great. So I like the way you highlighted. This is an evolution. We've been evolving in a particular direction over time. Obviously, several years back, I talked about the 50-50 mix of direct and indirect and we've been driving a lot of growth in direct channels. We've been driving a lot of growth in direct enterprise business, and all of these things kind of like weave together into a longer-term plan.

And now what you're seeing is doing is we're driving a lot more direct engagement with some of our value-added resellers. So some of the changes that you saw in there are preset staging more and more direct engagement with our value-added resellers and less, but smaller engagements and fewer engagements between intermediates and our value-added resellers, which makes total sense between the systems evolutions we've been executing on in the direction we're going.

So long-term, we're still driving towards that same type of balance that we've been talking about. But as our systems improve, we're looking for different types of engagement models with our value-added reseller channel.

Thanks. Jay, your comment on statements, all right? As you know, and I know you're aware, as we look at the various segments you do business in, we're moving in a situation where we're getting deeply entrenched in both the design and make side of our customers' business. So we also pay attention to the fact that even within manufacturing and AEC and all these things, we're going to be adding a lot more subscribers in some of the downstream processes in other parts of the process, which is going to be an important engine even within some of the segments that you discussed. And I know you're aware of that. I just wanted to reinforce it a little bit.

Yes. So it's very early in the migration. But in general, Innovyze had a record quarter. And the biggest thing that was driving some of that record growth is that now Innovyze can be incorporated into a lot of our enterprise business agreements and in some of our engagement with our largest accounts. And guess what, there's a hunger for the solution. So there's a lot more direct engagement with customers around Innovyze that's really propelling the growth right now.

We're still very much in the early stages of activating our channel. So we've activated our major accounts team, and we're still working to activate our channel. And the subscription transition, super early stages just starting, and that we'll give you updates on that as time goes on.

Yes. So actually, there's pretty consistent customer behavior across segments and sizes of customers. So there's not any kind of switching behavior or downgrading behavior. And Flex tends to be to a large measure, and its very early days with Flex, tends to be incremental to our business rather than detrimental to our business. So in general, we're not seeing any kind of changes in mix as things go on. I will say, from a segment perspective, while all the segments grew, our larger customers grew faster than our smaller ones, but everybody was growing.

Joe, I think that's a very astute question. And I think you're pointing to some of the important things about what we're doing with public sector in general. You probably noticed in the opening commentary, our comments about FedRAMP things associated with that. All of these things, FedRAMP, are engagement with the infrastructure partner and DOTs that I talked about in the opening communicator, all of these are part and parcel of laying the groundwork for more and more modernization inside of these department of transportation and larger owners in terms of infrastructure, federal owners, European owners as well.

All of that will continue to build out in a way very similar to what you described in terms of entering into construction. It's a longer-term play. It will take time. So it's still early innings in all of these things. But you can see increasing activity specifications coming out more and more within the Department of Transportation community and a desire to modernize the stacks.

And that's a big push right now. A lot of these DOTs they're stuck in a different era of software and solutions, and they're looking to modernize and this isn't just true in the U.S. It's also true in Europe. We're engaging in more and more discussions with countries in the European Union about some of the BIM standards they're trying to drive into their infrastructure projects. And that's going to have a compounding effect on how people want to engage with different kinds of solutions in the infrastructure space, but still early journey.

Yes. So look, first off, let's comment about how resilient our business is and how we demonstrate that resilience over the last few years. We believe we've put everything in the right kind of scope, and we've aligned things pretty carefully. If we saw an environment where we saw downward pressure on our margin expectations for the year, we have levers within the company that we can pull that has nothing to do with layoffs or any of the things you're seeing in the rest of the tech sector that we could pull to ensure that we hit those targets. So we feel pretty confident about what we've laid out and how we could hit it even if there were changes in the economic environment.

Debbie, do you want to add some commentary?

Yes. So there's no change in our approach to non-compliance, right? As I've said in many times, and I want to keep reinforcing, we continue to develop efficiencies. We continue to be able to identify to higher precision, who is actually non-compliant and who actually isn't and we're building up a steady base of business as we move forward. But we're not looking to accelerate it or push it harder or drive it in any particular direction.

We're just allowing it to be kind of a steady incremental growth engine within our business and kind of continue to deliver year after year after year. And that will continue to be our strategy. One, we think it's the right thing to do for the company, the right thing to do for our customers. It gives our customers time to get themselves compliant because just the fact that we're out there engaged in compliance activity encourages people to ask themselves if they should be compliant there's other business levers here. And the more carefully we do this and the more incrementally, we do this, the better the outcome is for the entire ecosystem.

So no real change in how we're approaching that.

Yes. So ChatGPT has obviously given a massive amount of validation to the potential of AI. It is a particular horizontal solution, and we intend to leverage that horizontal solution in some of our solutions. In fact, you're probably aware that Microsoft and Satya Nadela himself demoed a natural language processing tool for generating manuscripts for both direct to my and for Fios, and it works fabulously, right? These are things that provide real leverage to our customers.

However, one of the things I really want you to be aware of, Matt, is that the real vertical value comes when we start training on data that is directly used by our customers to do particular things or design or build something. And that comes at the user productivity level, the company productivity level and the ecosystem productivity level. And that's going to unlock a lot of potential as we develop things that cut across all of what our customers can do like generative design, by the way, but probably heading in even other directions.

And that's going to take time to develop. It's going to take opportunities for us to engage with customers in terms of using some of their data. But I want you to pay attention to that long-term horizon on doing real training on customer data, which will be where the revolution comes from.

Look, it's a hard question to answer because all of those segments are growing, all right? And the new business is growing in all those segments. So it's a nuanced question. One thing I will say is there's a different character of pushback from each one of those segments in terms of what they're seeing.

What we're seeing in manufacturing is my costs are going up, my costs are going up and the costs are going up, right? And that is impacting their ability to deliver, frankly, on some impact on demand because they can't pass it all to the customers. They have trouble kind of fulfilling the demand with the cost factor.

So I would say right now, the inflationary environment is putting more pressure on our manufacturing customers than it is on our ADC customers. So that's just one piece of color.

In the AEC space, obviously, the material costs are a big issue for them. But they are continuing to struggle with labor shortages, capacity problems, the ability to kind of clear out the book of business, which is great because there's an overhang there's an overhang of business for them right now, and there still is.

And that's true in manufacturing, too. There's still an overhang of delivery that has to happen. I'm still waiting for a part from my repaired car and it's maybe my cars bus has been months, can't get the part. All right. There's plenty of capacity challenges there as well.

But in AEC, generally, there's still a backlog of book of business, labor shortages, capacity within some of these institute companies and construction firms, architecture firms, is getting in the way. So I hear capacity problems much more in the AEC segment which, by the way, is going to continue into time. Eventually, the capacity will clear out. And I hear inflationary pressures much more from our manufacturing customers. M&A, they don't care, it's all digital anyway. People are watching more and they're happy.

Yes. So that was a multilayer question. And now I have to remember the first part of the question, which was related to -- remind me about what your part A was?

Yes. Okay. So this is the -- always the question about which parts of the AEC ecosystem are we sensitive to. And here's the thing, and I always answer the question this way. The dollars always go somewhere, all right? So people were very concerned about 1.5 years ago, I was getting lots of questions about what's your exposure to commercial real estate, commercial real estate is going to slow down what happened in commercial real estate?

It moved a retrofit and reconfigure all right? And a lot of commercial real estate spend is in is going on in retrofit and reconfigure. A lot of architecture firms are completely involved in that. And also, it's moved to multifamily residential and things associated with that due to other pressures inside the economy and inside municipalities.

So the money shifts around all the time, right? And in terms of which segment is getting lit up. So we're not seeing any particular exposure in terms of slowdown to any particular segment because of the way this activity shifts, all right? And it's just one -- it's one of the interesting things about the ecosystem. There's always something that wasn't getting built or worked on that starts to get built or worked on when something else is out of the way, it's out of the queue, all right? And the commercial office of space is somewhat out of the queue and other things are moving into the queue and getting more attention.

Now with regards to '08, it was a very different type of situation. If you recall what we thought in '08 was a massive slowdown at the low end of our business. And a matter of fact, it was a precipitous slowdown in the low end of our business with smaller firms not being able to get enough work.

We don't see anything on the horizon that looks like that because of the backlog of business that's out there right now, there's just more people wanting to get things done than there is capacity to get the thing done in the ecosystem.

So it's a very different situation where there was a kind of like the valve is shut off. There was no backlog, which to bleed through. Now we're in a world where we've got a lot of project backlog, a lot of pent-up demand, and it's just not the same situation that you saw in '08. It was very different world. And we're a very different company.

