Andrew Power
Digital Realty Trust, Inc. (DLR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Mike. So we'll try to weave that into one answer, so trying to stick to one question and get through the whole roster and maybe loop back. But I'll turn it to Matt to give you the bridge on a same-store basis.

Thanks, Dave. This is Andy. I don't think we're experiencing the same exact dynamics on power as what you heard last night, quite honestly. I think what Matt, you just heard from Matt is the comps on a growth basis in the same-store pool are not as -- we benefited in '23 from power, and we're not going to have that kind of benefit repeat itself in 2024, assume it and I think this all is going to be washed out once we say by the '25, assuming we don't go back into this another, call it, very volatile power environment. So it's almost one-time in nature. I don't I don't believe that is impacted buyer behavior. And I don't believe we're suffering or benefiting depending on the period to the same degree of what was described. Maybe that's due to the market mix, overall business mix in our hedging strategy, which are not identical. I can tell you from a business standpoint, and you can see this in the results, we capped off a very strong year, let's call it, focused on the enterprise colo connectivity segment. Record overall new logos, North of 500. Strong quarters of new signings. You had a very strong interconnection quarter, both in new signings and also a flow through the P&L, which has been accelerating and net absorption certainly in that category that was strong in the fourth quarter and through the year. So I don't see the power flowing through. I know we're trying to get to one question per se and then rotate back well moved there, Greg, why don't you just touch on the components of the $1.25 billion in our guidance for data?

Thanks, Michael. So I would say on a year-over-year basis, we are -- the dynamics has changed tremendously on so many fronts. Overall, the pipeline for hyperscale has continued to grow to new heights. I view the AI demand is a new wave of demand, incremental call enterprise, hybrid IT is certainly an incremental to hyperscale cloud compute. And this has all played out in the backdrop of tightening supply-demand dynamics that has called -- as we've described, over several quarters now, moved the pendulum on pricing more and more in the favor of providers like Digital Realty. Is there a ceiling? Listen, I think we've seen rates run tremendously. We just, this quarter, reported in that segment North of a megawatt, call it, our highest GAAP rate ever at $145 million we are continuing to see -- it's almost like some of these customers who are often on calendar fiscal years, just like Digital Realty, wrapped up one budget cycle and got a budget refresh and came back in 2024 with the incremental appetite for demand. These customers are seeking some of the same things. When we intersect with that demand is in our large-scale hyperscale campuses that are in our major markets and especially with larger capacity blocks that have contiguous capacity or the most sought after. And those rates continue to run in terms of what we've signed and where we put up quotes and I think we're very well positioned. If you look at our footprint, you can see a lot of it on development capacity life cycle, which is just a portion of what we activate in Northern Virginia right now, but some of the other major markets as well to capture a good -- more than our fair share of that demand. And lastly, I think there's a -- I think there's a broader acknowledgment whether it is hyperscale compute or AI workloads that these customers our time to market, many of them are trying to land precious GPUs that are just enormous business opportunities for these customers. And our rent even historically, but certainly today, plays a very small economic piece in that equation relative to their ability to launch their services and be first to market many times.

Thanks, Irvin. We certainly have a really great opportunity to intersect with these large capacity block needs of our customers, be it for AI or hyperscale. It is, I would say, maybe potentially unparalleled in what we can offer in Northern Virginia today in terms of available capacity in a market that's shut down in terms of new power until 2026. But the list goes beyond that, whether it's Dallas, Santa Clara, Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Seoul or parts of Japan, not to mention some of our joint ventures in Latin America and South Africa. We've taken our approach quite honestly where many of these capacity blocks for ourselves and many providers were at the early stages of development. They were at land, went pad-ready. Shelves are coming online and just the first suites were coming online. And throughout 2023, we took a more, call it, approach whereby we didn't go run after the first deal out of the gate for some of these customers because we knew we weren't losing a revenue opportunity because the capacity wasn't even being able to be moved into or at least commenced. And in hindsight, that's proven fortuitous because as the year has played out, and certainly as 2024 has gotten off out of those gates, we've continue to see what we're offering is becoming much more and more attractive to an even broader and diverse set of customers. So I don't think we'll be able to be late too long in 2024. We obviously now have some capacity blocks that are actually live and we can commence rent on. So we do have some urgency to get that going. But I think our patients and prudence here and approach allowed us to prove right. sometimes better to be lucky than smart. If I would have known Ashford would have run out of power years ago, I would have -- we wouldn't have sold all that capacity we had to release at the time. But this time, we -- the luck was our side

Thanks, David. So the -- I think you heard me loud and clear on where rates have come from and where they've gone and where they're likely to continue to move and some of these markets haven't even hit peak historical rates, if you look at the whole span of data center capacity. So I don't think we're at a rent bubble or near that necessarily and it's been on the back of real constraints and build costs that have inflated and issues. So they are -- I believe these rental moves are justified. I think you will continue to see the cash mark-to-markets flow through in our favor. We did call out in -- throughout last year and in the script for this quarter that we had some episodic short-term renewals inflated our cash mark-to-market, but we think being, call it, 4% to 6% in that category overall is pretty in our favor. And to your question on the bigger deals where you're going to have these potential roll-ups, yes, we do have subsections of our contracts that have clauses that are certainly in the favor of our customer. When the market was quite the opposite of what it was today and it was filling baking capacity, we certainly had to succumb to some of those clauses that our customers. But they all often are very narrowly defined in terms of fixed duration of renewal time period and other bells and whistles. And when a customer, which they often do wants to negotiate outside of that box that opens up the contract renegotiations. And we try to collaborate with our customers to come into a mutually agreeable outcome. So that's a long-winded way of saying, I don't think we'll be able to roll every one of those, call it, sub 100-plus megawatts directly up to the 140 or 150 or 160 or whatever we're going in the market. But I think we'll -- I do think there is going to be a positive mark-to-market in that category for some years to come.

Matt, do you want to start us off on that one?

Thanks, Frank. I want to have Colin tackle what we're seeing in the, I'll call it, enterprise sales cycle.

Thanks, Matt. So multi fast, I'm going to hand to Matt to explain how the dividend call works in terms of taxable income and distribution and why the dividend is set where it is set. Because I think the topic of M&A, I mean, you could look at the linear press releases or just recent events we've done in just the last several months through resolving our relationship to Cyxtera to growing our platform in India with the addition of Reliance Jio. We also just had a big announcement with the leader in the GPU space recently to disposing of some noncore assets, JVs stabilized assets and adding strategically to our landholdings across key markets. So we've been incredibly active on pieces of that. I think the broader context of M&A, I think the most critical puzzle pieces have kind of been picked over. And most of our activity from here are really, call it, extending our strategic advantages and bolt-on in nature to what we have. I don't see any like key gems out there that would be really additive to our global platform at peak. Matt, why don't you hit on the dividend, Matt, if you want that.

Thanks, Simon. So one of our top, top, top priorities is to continue to focus on delivering acceleration in that 0 to 1 megawatt interconnection cohort, enterprise connectivity in order to customers, the most granular and the largest volume of over 5,000 customers as well as our new logos. So by and large, the more quarters where that represents a larger and increasing piece of the mix and continues to accelerate like it has done recently, that is filling our existing baking capacity. It's wins at our highest rates, it's multi-market, multi-geo enterprise customers and is the place where we believe we can deliver the greatest value to our customers, most consistently and long-term and durable there will be episodic quarters where that will be a lower percentage. But that's likely enough because we've filtered our execution. That's likely because we also are supporting some of the largest hyperscalers around the world. We're bringing our capacity in over half of our 50-plus metropolitan areas, places where we can really add value to those customers where they've already landed their compute or AZs where they want to grow at our continuous capacity with operational excellence, where we have that long runway of growth that they can get from no one else. And those are we quarters where we saw larger lumpier deals, obviously, into those capacity blocks. So we think both of these are large addressable markets where we have a distinct value proposition and a competitive moat that we'll continue to focus on executing each and every day.

Thanks, Erik. Let me just touch on this a little bit and then hand it to Chris to walk you through chapter and verse. I look at where our heritage is as a company, this AI opportunity is tremendously in our wheelhouse. We came with this from a hyperscale piece of the business and build the colo connectivity capabilities organically and inorganically. We are often taking larger halls that are at higher power densities and using our engineering prowess to work for enterprise customers and pushing their boundaries on power densities. I can tell you, AI workloads were at digital before I joined over nine years ago. We've done retrofits on existing deployments just to fit up for customers needing AI just this year. At the end of last year, I was to one of our Paris facilities. We're one of our partner customers have fitted out of liquid cooling for a multinational financial services company, live environments which meant that they had to get going on that years ago to be live at the end of last year. So this is right in our wheelhouse, and we've been winning in that category in the last year in the, call it, several hundred kilowatt domain to the 30-plus megawatt piece of this, and you've seen some testimonials on that. Chris, why don't you give a little bit of color as to some of the verticals we've been winning and where do you see this going as well?

Sure, Matt. Why don't you take that?

Thank you, Betsy. Digital Realty capped off a transformative 2023 with a strong fourth quarter that was highlighted by three key elements. First, we sourced over $12 billion of new capital and commitments from an array of hyperscale private capital partners, deleveraging our balance sheet and positioning the company for the future. Second, we posted another quarter of improving organic operating results with the best same-capital cash NOI growth in nearly a decade, and we are just on the cusp of the AI wave of demand. Third, we continue to grow our footprint and capacity around the world with record deliveries in 2023 to meet the accelerating needs of our growing customer base. These customers look to us to help enable their IT solutions, whether that is AI, cloud or even enterprises along their digital transformation journeys, our value proposition is resonating, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today with a special thank you to our dedicated and exceptional team at Digital Realty, who keeps the digital world turning. Thank you.
