Andres Lopez
O-I Glass, Inc. (OI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, the pricing evolution has been quite positive and in line with our expectations with slightly more than 80% of the open market agreements already negotiated. We are retaining about 70% --75% of the benefits that we accumulated over the last couple of years. Now, we're doing that at the lowest point in volume, from this point on through 2024 and into '25 volumes will go up, which we believe will support price even better. When we look at supply and demand in a global basis, first, O-I is balanced. And at this point in time, we're taking all the measures to be able to achieve our inventory targets in 2024, taking into consideration the demand projections that we have.
If there is need for more action, we'll adjust, but we believe we are in a good place. When we look at the global landscape, we are seeing lots of curtailments taking place around the world. In Europe in particular, where they -- it is required the most we're seeing a lot of actions in that regard. So the balance is going to depend on how quickly that demand, that capacity comes back to support demand. But at this point in time, with the amount of curtailments we see, we're seeing a trend towards balance of supply and demand in Europe and globally.

Yes, so we're seeing the stocking activity pretty much done in beer and NAB and food. The categories that are still to complete that cycle are spirits and wine, which we expect will improve over the course of the second quarter and should be more normalized by the middle of the year. Our inventories obviously increased last year, and as I mentioned before, we are taking all the actions to bring those inventories back down as per our current business plan for '24.

Yes, let me answer first the question on the margin expansion initiative. So there are three rockets, revenue optimization, factory performance, and cost transformation. They enabled year-on-year margin expansion in a multi-year period. So that's what we intended to do when we created this initiative. And our goal at the time was to have a solid process and capabilities in place, bottoms up and top down well articulated globally and all the way down to the shop floor.

Now, we wanted to do that to be able to quickly and effectively identify projects, execute on them, and then replicate them across life. We have successfully on that, and that is what gives us the confidence that this is not only a multi-year program going forward, but that we can achieve the target that we find for this year of $150 million of revenue.

So in revenue optimization is primarily improving the quality of our revenue, making sure that we capture all the value as defined of our -- in our agreements. In the factory performance is all the productivity that goes up with the asset base and in the cost transformation is reorganization. It’s changing organization structure is making it simple, more effective, more agile and there is still a lot of potential in those three offices.

George, there is something I would like to highlight in previous calls, your adopted point of manufacturing operations, the strength of those operations, could we elevate performance. And when I look at the manufacturing operations of O-I, I can say to you that I'm seeing the best performance capability -- ability to execute in more than two decades. So our capability such that it give us the confidence we can deliver on performance improvement, we've been doing so for the last few years and there is still room for improvement, and we have very good plans in place to do that.

Yes. And the -- something that we're seeing in the market is a growing concern with regards to imports of empty glass by our customers due to potential supply chain disruptions which should favor local supply and that's all primarily in the wine space.

With regards to the peer investment 6hat announcement came out, some flexibility characteristics are highlighted. Those characteristics or capabilities are commercially available. We have them in some locations in Europe and Latin America. Now as you know, our focus in North America has been optimizing our asset network. So we're doing that so we can improve returns in this business. We're focus on the margin expansion initiatives with very good opportunities in North America. We are improving the commercial conditions and we're focused on deploying MAGMA. As you know MAGMA has a number of characteristics that will create a competitive advantage that are not available today in the market.

For example, it can be co-located or near located. It can be re-locatable, lower capital intensive, lower total cost of one of capabilities, which is good to deal with seasonality or economic downturns will fit in a commercial warehouse off the shelf short time to market as a result of that. So that's our focus and our first move in that direction is the Kentucky line that we are planning to startup in the middle of the year.

Yes, I think one slide that will be a good reference to have is a slide number four, that is showing how consumer consumption has evolved over this period of time. You see that it started to improve back in the second quarter of 2023, while the stocking activity started to increase in Q1 2023. So the largest driver of the lower shipments for O-I has been really the stocking activity. And I will say, in the last part of the year, the second half it's been up around 80% of that. Now inventories are going back to a more normal position. We see that in beer, in NAB, and foods is already pretty much there if wine and spirits will take a little longer, but that will normalize.

Now, something that shows that the interesting glass is pretty high is the high level of new product development activity. We have a pipeline at this point in time that is very large of very high probability projects is 500,000 tons. All of that will come into the stream to support demand through ‘24 and going into ‘25.