Andrew Rees
Crocs, Inc. (CROX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks Tom. Yeah, I think I'll hit the start of this and Anne can pick it up at the end with a few set of points around how we think of the year will play out for HEYDUDE. So, I think the first thing you've got to do is you've got to separate sell-in from sellout, right? So, yes, I absolutely - you can see that the HEYDUDE brand has been choppy from us from a sell-in perspective and didn't play out as we thought it would during the full year.

And you heard us say on our Q3’s call talk about how we're going to pivot or how we pivoted some of our kind of strategic actions. But if you kind of step all the way back to sellout and the consumer takeaway that we see for the brand, because that is what our wholesale partners experience right?

So I think we can see a few things that are very, very clear. The underlying sell-out for the HEYDUDE brand has been strong, right? It is a top performing brand for many of our wholesale partners and it ranks highly in that brand stack. The HEYDUDE brand during 2023 gained market share in the fashion - the fashion casual category actually substantial market share we believe based on the Sakana [ph] data of about 200 basis points.

So it was one of the larger market share gainer and that that's in terms of consumer takeaway. And then we can also see that underlying PTC business and that we've changed ome pricing strategies and dynamics and I think easy business, which is causing us to give up some revenue, but also to drive higher margin. So, in essence, what we see is we kind of read through to the consumer that we are selling more pairs to more consumers and gain market share. And so that's kind of the important rate.

Now we acknowledged that in the back half of ‘22 early part of ’23, we put too many pairs into the market and so we sold more in than we should have done. We also have gone through the process of cleaning up our account base, because I think we had too many accounts with too much inventory kind of competing against each other.

And so I think we got real clarity on who our strategic partners are. And I would say as we talk to those strategic partners and frankly, you've heard from a number of them those that are the public, they are really bullish on the brand. So that's kind of what we see from a consumer lens.

I think the second piece I'd say that drives trajectory for the business is before I hand it over to Anne is that outlet business, right? So we opened up those five outlet stores in the back end of last year. We are very pleased with the performance of those stores and a local mall this year. And as you go through the year, the cumulative revenues and profit that you get from this stores is substantial and will continue to build that business in the future. And the sort of benchmark we gave you to kind of get head around it was the retail business for Crocs North America is about a third of the total business. So it's very substantial and we think that exists for HEYDUDE too.

Yeah, I think we're making great progress. Yeah, we see, substantial dips in the gray market from sort of earlier in ‘2'3. We're not done yet. We think it will take through the first half of ‘24 to complete that. But certainly solid progress.

Thank you.

Yes, Jon. So I think the Crocs brand continues to be very well positioned in North America. Obviously, it's our largest business and it is a scale business. We have substantial market share and we are well penetrated from a wholesale perspective from a retail perspective and from a digital perspective.

But we do see we said we were very happy with the performance of the Crocs brand in the market in ‘23. We see, we have very positive, I would say, indications of continue to support from our wholesale partners. We have a strong pipeline of product innovation that will bring to market. We have a strong pipeline of licensed products collaborations that will bring to market during the year. In fact I was spent most of yesterday afternoon reviewing new products. So super excited about that. So I think the brand is well-positioned. I think it also does I know as you rightly call out, we do think we have incremental penetration opportunities for Jibbitz.

We see the consumer dynamic with personalization been incredibly positive as you saw in ‘23 it grew above the overall growth of the business and gained penetration. We think we see opportunities in the wholesale market where, look, it is a more difficult product to display and sell in the wholesale market, but we have sort of creative solutions that we will be testing and rolling out.

We also bring in the timelines in for Jibbitz dramatically. So that we can respond to I would say kind of social friends much more quickly. So we're super excited about using personalization to create ongoing consumer engagement.

Thanks, Rick and I assume you are referring to the $5 billion for Crocs that we guided some years ago.

Yeah. Okay. So, yes. As I think, sort of number of years ago we guided we thought there's a – the Crocs would be a $5 billion brand and I think at that point we set out we thought I could happen by 2026. I think where we are today is, we absolutely still firmly believe the Crocs is a scale business, the Crocs brand and can easily be $5 billion and we look at the pillars that we used to drive that growth, which is Asia, digital, Clogs, Sandals and personalization and we see really kind of solid progress against all of those pillars, as I probably say more than solid progress we've seen sort of incredible progress over the last several years against those pillars.

I think quite a few things have changed since we provided that guidance in around global supply chain. We had to pull back out of Russia because of all the issues that you're well aware of and frankly currency as well cost us about $200 million dollars in top line. So I don't think that it's realistic to achieve the $5 billion by 2026. But - and so we're really focused on driving continued growth in a profitable and sustainable way. And probably take a little bit longer. But I think it still drives incredible shareholder returns and value creation for shareholders and in terms of operating margins, this will be the first year. I think with deviating from the – or projecting to deviate from the 26%. We still think the operating margins for our company are in the mid 20s. But will not be every single year above the 26% mark. We think it's very prudent to invest incremental dollars from time-to-time to create the capabilities that allow us to grow in the future. Hopefully it gives you a perspective in a long term.

Yeah, I think I'll obviously we get a of a bit of brand color and Anne can give you some of the more specifics. I would say, it's a continuation of the trends from last year, basically. We see - we don't give a lot of in-quarter color. But if you think about some of the big drivers that have really be propelling the brand. And so Asia and international growth has been super important. We see Clog growth, Sandal growth and Jibbitz growth from a product perspective important and as you know, we have visibility to bookings. So we feel real confident around our wholesale bookings and we see we see solid sell-out for the brand. So I think it’s continuation mostly.

Yes, absolutely, Jim. So I think, let me start with this sort of highlights. China is probably top of the list as you rightly pointed out. We've had kind of a multi-year investment effort and focus on China. I am really thrilled with that study to pay off in 2023 with triple-digit growth essentially doubling the business during that year from a top-line perspective.

Obviously, it improves dramatically from a bottom-line perspective, as well. But we're just getting started in China, right? So 4% of our overall revenues, if you look at sort of other global brands that benchmark of sort of Greater China substantially higher than that maybe four to five times higher than that. So, I would say second, we're seeing great trajectory in parts of Western Europe, particularly the UK we're probably on a two to three-year very strong growth trajectory in that market.

And it's also an important market for influence across the European marketplace. We're seeing strong trajectory in France also I would say thirdly North Korea - sorry South Korea has been a very steady growth driver for us. And I think I mentioned in my prepared remarks it’s actually only isolated our countries around the world is our highest market share performance even above the United States, but we see the future opportunities continued growth opportunities in South Korea.

Australia has performed very strongly. We've seen a real turnaround in the business there. And so those are probably the highlights. I think the more challenging markets, Japan remains a slightly more challenging market. I think we're shifting focus that market because it is a large market and we do anticipate growth in the future, but we've got some work to do.

And I think you know, we're very, very optimistic about India in the long range and we're putting substantial investments into that market a little bit like we did it around China. But there are a number of short-term issues around sourcing that are creating some I think some headwinds in there very short term. But I think in the long term India will be a big success.

Okay? Yeah, I think like I ought to see Japanese great way of thinking about it, right? So, just to sort of paint the picture for everybody, what we saw the Crocs brand really started inflect in the U.S. marketplace sort of late ‘18 into ‘19 and then grew dramatically through the pandemic. I think, a lot of people outside of the company kind of put that down to well, that was the pandemic and people were happy to wear Crocs at home, but they're not happy to wear Crocs when they are back out in the real world, right?

So, I think at this point, hopefully, that has proven to be incorrect in that, people are happy and excited to wear Crocs out in the real world. And I think what's happening there is we're engaging the consumer, we’re excited in the consumer with innovative new products with a high comfort product, with a high value product, with a product that can be personalized in many different ways and it's pretty exciting and the customers engaged in it.

So that's grown that business dramatically. We've seen that trajectory repeated in a number of our international markets. And so we look at markets like the UK. We are still probably in our third year of very accelerated growth. So we're seeing that trajectory play out. And so, and then as I highlighted an earlier question and in our prepared remarks, we actually have the highest market share in the Korea marketplace as of today. So even above the U.S. So that's to your point around there might be some places in the world where the Crocs brand actually resonates even better than in the U.S. Easy on and off and that’s kind of key component that where culturally there are many markets where people take their shoes off when they go into a building or go into somebody's home.

So I think that's a viable thesis. We're not guiding the international businesses to be clear and then bigger than the U.S. business. I mean, I think when we did our $5 billion plan, we were pretty clear that a lot of our growth will come out of Asia and that international will be super important. And you've seen that in the last six quarters, the international business growing very strongly. So we can cut.

You mean other than she's awesome?

I’ll let her answer the first question.

Great. So your second question, so look at me my flippant answer is important right? Like we have great confidence in on both the knowledge of the business, the commercial acumen, her understanding of kind of the consumer trends, beyond her abilities as a CFO. So, that's important. I would say this transition is part of the succession planning that we've been doing for some time. We do it for all of us senior leaders. We do that in conjunction with the Board as you'd expect. And we have a very thorough process around this. So, it's definitely something we take very seriously and we think this is, listen this, Michelle is retiring and we wish her well. I mean she's done an amazing job and as I also said in my prepared remarks, she has been doing this in the footwear industry for a long time and have some other things that she would like to like spend a bit more time doing. So, I think it's a very natural transition and very well planned.

I think mostly Sam. Yeah, that's mostly a very thoughtful understanding of the marketplace.

Thanks, Sam.

Thank you. I just wanted to express our sincere appreciation for everybody's joining us today and their interest in our company. So, thank you so much and have a great day.