Andrew Toy
Clover Health Investments, Corp. (CLOV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Hey, Jason. So the way that we're looking at this, as we said in the remarks, is that we have been pricing the plan and the product, I think, very appropriately. And so we expect to see PMPM improvements mainly due to the effect of member mix and returning member mix. So while we are managing the plan to a little bit flat, a little bit down, growth is not our main focus right now. We do expect to see significant continued improvement through plan operations and through member mix, where we would see that PMPM revenue increase. And therefore, that one would drive that revenue number.

Yeah. So a couple of different questions you had there, great ones. I think there's a couple of different things. Number one is, as we look at the unregulated number, I would note that a lot of our profitability means that cash is inside the regulated entity right now. And we have some operational methodologies where cash would move between those two entities was partially offsetting any outflow from the unregulated. So we feel pretty good about our unregulated cash position.

Regarding ACO, we have been reducing -- we did exit last year, as everyone knows, and we have been lowering our exposure. So it's a reduced exposure that we had even in 2023, which is the last year of participation in the program. So we priced all of that into our modeling for the cash flow position, and we feel good about our unregulated cash. We feel good about where we sit on the overall liquidity. And as we said, our current goal as management is to target adjusted EBITDA profitability this year without the need for any additional capital in the unregulated NSE.

Yeah. So that's a great follow-on question, Jason. I can't do it full justice here, but the way that we think about it in a couple of different ways. On that last part, we do look carefully at our LTV-CAC equation here, and there's a couple of different dimensions. Given that we do expect, publicly stated by other plans that they will be pulling back and repricing their products, we really do think that there’s an opportunity for us to leverage the fact that our technology-driven approach manages our membership much better than others, we believe. And what that means is, is that we don’t necessarily have to improve or increase the richness of our plans as others pull back and we will enjoy a decrease in the overall customer acquisition cost.

The other dimension is – and we will be sharing more information later on about the effect of Clover Assistant on that LTV-CAC equation. But I think it’s a very interesting lever that we get that because we drive care through CA by pulling up those CA visits and getting people CA visits earlier, we’re able to also drive new – close that LTV-CAC equation and get the profitability on our members sooner rather than later. We haven’t shared that break-even point yet, but it’s something that we might share in the future.

Yeah. Absolutely. So what we've done here, just to be clearer, is that we feel very good about the momentum and we feel very good about the improvement in the business. We do see that others have seen this variability, as I said in my remarks. And to be clear, we are not seeing any utilization that we did not anticipate. So -- all we do have higher utilization, but we did anticipate that throughout '23. We had in the quarter for Q4, nothing that we didn't -- no surprises effectively.

So what we did when we looked at our guide for -- outside of Q4, but when we look at our guide for full year 2024 is to say, look, we feel pretty good that we could target and we would land potentially near the higher end of that range that we provided. So we guided to negative 20 to 20 (ph). We looked and said we could come to the higher end of that range, as I said in my remarks. But then we said we wanted to increase the width of that range because there may be unexpected effects systemic to the environment that others are seeing that maybe haven't hit us yet. We aren't saying that we are seeing that. We are saying that we are being prudent in managing that guidance range.

As we sort of have Q1, Q2 and the year develops, as we have claims run out, we expect to narrow that range and hopefully provide tighter guidance on where we end up. And again, hopefully, we will have price and everything appropriately and we will see ourselves come in on the higher end.

Yeah. Absolutely. So one thing that I will say is that we are focused on our Star rating and making sure that we are able to clearly land and execute against a 3.5 Star rating and then have a pathway to 4. A couple of different things that we are able to say about our performance there.

Number one is that with the two key methodology being applied last year, one thing that did come into play is these new guardrails around Star ratings. What that does is while the baseline for Stars did shift significantly last year, there is also significantly more predictability now and where cut points will land. And I think that is advantageous to not just us but all plans in terms of having higher predictability. And that's something we're pricing into all of our Star rating methodologies so that we know that we can manage against that 3.5 Stars and then proceed nicely towards that far 4 Star level.

Second of all, I do think that when we look at Star ratings, it's much harder to predict your Star rating when you're growing significantly. And both in '23 and '24, we have a more stable membership. And because of that more stable membership, we're able to anticipate things like Star rating performance. These things that our net inherence denominators are more stable. And we are also able to estimate utilization and revenue more accurately because we have a more stable membership base and we have a higher returning membership. So between those two things, we do believe we have very good line of sight into where we think things will land.

Yeah. So what we're saying there is that we absolutely have been focused on adjusted EBITDA profitability and attaining adjusted EBITDA profitability without the need for additional capital, right? And so that's been our focus. It remains our focus, and we are in striking distance of that and I feel good about that. That means that because that has been the priority, we have not been focused on necessarily membership growth during this period, and I think that's appropriate.

I also think that, that has been a good strategic move on our part because those people who really took on a lot of PPO risk and didn’t have managed – those management capabilities, I think have had seen it be difficult for them to manage their performance because they don’t have something like Clover Assistant to provide their management capabilities on that wide network.

Now one -- we’ve been focused on a lot of things in the last couple of years: maturing as a public company, maturing operation, rebaselining our PMPM servicing admin costs, loss of maturation that we’ve been focused on to drive that at the profitability. And as we get all those boxes ticked, I think you’re going to see us go through that adjusted EBITDA zero pathway, deliver profit and then stop to say to ourselves, we’ve matured our platform, we’ve matured our operations. Now how do we start picking up more membership again, growing top line while still enjoying the optimizations that we’ve delivered in the last couple of years.

Yeah. So I think there’s a couple of different things. One is that you can see here in our full year results for – we effectively loaded our results for 2023 and maybe adjustments around SG&A there in terms of adjusted EBITDA. So you can look at our SG&A run rate and our optimizations going forward and our guide really saying that we’re reducing those operations largely to 0 in 2024. So hopefully, that gives you an idea of like – of what that targeting looks like. Of course, there are onetime costs related to exiting that program, but those would have been adjusted out from the adjusted EBITDA.

The other thing on the PPE dimension is that we generally do feel like our full year MCR is a good proxy for our complete performance. Quarter-to-quarter, there are some things that flow in and out, and that’s expected due to IBNR and time calculations. So normally, what we say is if you look at our full year projections and our full year results, those give you a good idea of what our true performance is like because those PPD effects tend to net out across the full year basis.

All right. So if we have no more questions, thank you, everybody, for asking those questions. So heading into 2024, I hope that everybody gets a sense for the increasing confidence that we have in achieving our profitability on an adjusted EBITDA basis in 2024 as well as the durability of that progress, setting us up for success in future years.

We've delivered favorable results each and every quarter this year driven by the strong unit economics of our core MA business on that PPO chassis and our differentiated care management platform that we continue to significantly invest in. So between these two things, this gives us great confidence in the trajectory of our business and our ability to succeed in the long term. We expect to continue to build upon this momentum in 2024, and I look forward to updating you all on even more progress in the future. So thank you all. Thank you.