Andy Rose
Worthington Industries, Inc. (WOR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. And I might add, also that, both of those businesses are leaders in the markets that they serve. WAVE being acoustical ceilings, and ClarkDietrich being metal framing. And they have the best products, the best service, they can do things that other customers can't do. And oftentimes that commands a premium in their marketplace.

We don't look into the business that way. That's a tough one.

Yes. I think the best way to think about that, is we look at really the gross on materials for each product. And think about it gross on material would be the average selling price minus the material costs. We think of it that way.

Certainly, what we try to do is, it's part of our strategy to push price wherever we can, and to add more profitable products. So when you see Temple being added, their gross on materials much higher than, say hot rolled product. So yeah, the strategy continues to be let's push price, and let's push that spread as much as we can.

Yeah, I mean, I think as you know, Phil, this business kind of goes in cycles around what steel pricing is doing. And so this quarter, we saw a little bit of margin expansion from the business. Their end market, while it's remained pretty steady, you heard Joe's comments earlier, we were kind of waiting to see some volume softness there. We haven't seen a ton of that yet. But, commercial construction, most people anticipate either the back half of this year or early in '24, that you're going to see some softness there. But for the time being their businesses is pretty good. And, margins are pretty good.

Yes, from an automotive standpoint. Year-over-year, we were up about 7%. And North American production was up about 7% as well. For the year, we follow IHS and they're predicting 15 million units for calendar '23, which is 5% over last year's14.3. 15 million units sounds like pretty strong, but at the end of the day, it's still quite far behind the units that were produced on average in '19 and '18.

So they did about 16.6 in '19 and '18. And as you say, supply chain problems, they're not talked about as much, but they're still there. So there's lots of varying things out there. Interest rates are going up, dealer inventories improved a little bit. So there's lots of things happening out there. But at the end of the day, we think automotive is going to be up about 5% this year.

Yeah, Phil, it's a little unique to us, but the business is actually run on different ERP systems today. So they're a bit more portable, than a situation where you would have to kind of carve something out of a different company. But more broadly, on W24, everybody asks about timelines. We did, as we thought we would we did file our initial full Form 10 with the SEC, during our Q4, are kind of in that process. And then certainly our fiscal year just ended. And so we'll get our audit done in the next kind of month or six weeks. And then hope to get that on file with the SEC and start those conversations. And we'll go from there.

Thank you.

Total percentage in 2023, for the entire fourth quarter, fourth quarter was 43%.