Andy Eidson
Alpha Metallurgical Resources, Inc. (AMR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Lucas, it's Andy. Thanks for the comments. And Will, as you said, it's not easy looking at the comments that Jason made on a couple of operational things that we ran into the teams that have managed those situations. And these things happen relatively frequently when you're underground, you're on a big surface mine, things go sideways sometimes, and it's really a testament to the team that they've been able to manage these things and come through safely and without broader, broader impact.

So it's not easy. And I'd like to pass that along to the operations team that they do make it look easy from our perspective. But I know as well as you do, it's very, very difficult. As far as how the market feeds into the buyback. So the buyback is as it's always been. It's going to be driven by our cash flow every available dollar that we have above a certain liquidity target is going to go into the buyback. And so as we look at the market, and Dan I'll let Dan comment on that piece of it. But as we see it, if it starts feeling a little bit shaken, we're going to tend toward probably building a little bit higher -- get to the higher end of the liquidity level versus we're a little bit toward the lower end of that range right now and building cash could come in handy if we do get into some doldrums as we typically do in the, the spring part of the year. And then also, as Todd mentioned, seeing some of the cost pressures from -- particularly at this point in the year, some purchase coal, we've opportunistically been buying some coal where we've had a chance to put it into some of our shipments. And while that ultimately ends up with the incremental EBITDA, it does create kind of a working capital imbalance with the timing of buying the coal versus realizing the ultimate receipt. So that's an additional little bit of pressure on cash that we're watching out for. But it's -- as I said, it's as long as the cash is there, we'll just keep AMR along and buying those shares, but we have to be cognizant of where the market is. So Dan, anything you want to add there?

Yes, Lucas. On the shipment side, so we typically -- if you look at the current configuration of Alpha, going back to fourth quarter of 2020. Basically, Q1 of every year has been basically the largest year. And I'm specifically talking about the Met shipments if you isolate those. Right behind us being Q4. I mean historically, we've not had very strong Q4, and that's something else I do want to complement the team about again. We talked about trying to finish strong this year and they deliver beyond anything I could have imagined 4.6 million total tons, 4.5 million of Met is an all-time record for our Q4. And so part of that was being aggressive on our shipping schedules and logistics. And we probably pulled one or two cargoes that should have been Q1 24 shipments, which goes into the fourth quarter, which is a good thing. Anytime you can accelerate that, that's a good thing. So it will probably create even more pressure on Q1, which, again, typically was a little bit lighter, but we would normally see Q1 and Q4 be on the lighter end, two and three be on the stronger end, but the way Q4 or Q1 have blended into each other, we'll have to see how that plays out. But I think we're still feeling relatively okay about where we'll end up on the quarter just based on shipments thus far. But Dan, anything you like to add to that?

Okay. On the cost side, it's still a story of Inflation is still a story of labor. I think we've seen supplies and maintenance top costs start to slow down in absolute dollars, but there's still a little bit of inflation. On the labor side, I think we have seen our turnover rates drop over the past quarter, which is -- I think that's been a result of our attempts to try to be the lead employer in Central Appalachian or wage and benefit packages. So the goal is to get people in every seat. And I think to a large degree, we've accomplished that. But it will continue. Obviously, there are only a certain pool of candidates to choose from and everyone wants those people. So right now, I think we feel pretty good about our situation. But cost trends just across the board continue to be somewhat of a challenge. But we're focused on it, going to figure out creative ways to either get our productivity up or our cost down in a direct fashion and hopefully start improving that metric.

Thanks again to everyone for joining us today and for your interest in Alpha. We hope you have a great rest of the day.