Andy Hendricks
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. (PTEN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. We're really excited about how the completions business has been performing. I mean, you see it in the Q4 results. The teams who have had to integrate and come together are just doing a fantastic job. And it is one company today. It is next year. And they're just doing a great job. I can't say enough for the teams that are performing every day.

When you look at Q1, what we're projecting on Q1 in terms of revenue and profitability is relatively steady activity, but also some whitespace in there as we move some fleets around. And so I think as I look out across 2024 for completions and it holds for drilling as well, we're seeing relatively steady. And I realize that natural gas is trading at a low level, and there's probably some concerns over that market. But I think we've shown that last year, whether it's drilling or completions that we're working for the right customers in these basins and that we can keep things relatively steady.

So when it comes to the profitability on completions, I think as we continue to roll out some new technology, even in steady activity, there's some potential to improve the profitability as we work towards the end of the year. So we've got, as I mentioned earlier, we've got various levers that we can pull through both technologies, through integration, through performance. And I still think that we can still work to some higher profitability even in a steady environment.

So as we mentioned, we are deploying thee- fleets this year and we're going to start to grow our presence in that. But our strategy is more of a measured pace because our focus is returning cash to shareholders.

We do see the opportunity to improve the profitability in the completions business by rolling out the e-fleets. But we also have other things we're doing in '24 to improve profitability, including integrating some of the vertical services that NexTier has been offering for years on some of the fleets that aren't currently operating those.

When you look at specifically at the e-fleets, there's also some other technologies that we're going to be looking at rolling out later this year too that are 100% natural gas, and there's just going to be a variety of solutions. So it's not a one size fits all. We don't think the entire industry converts over to electric. We think there's still solid markets for high-performing dual fuel natural gas-powered systems. But we will continue to push technology. We will continue to invest in both electric and other new technologies. But for us, it's going to be more of a measured pace as we focus on returns to shareholders.

I think, you know, there's given that natural gas has only recently dropped below . We don't know the full impact of that yet, but we are working for some good customers in these gas basins, and we are repositioning some of our horsepower into more liquids, more oil.

So we're going to have some exposure to gas, but we had exposure to gas last year and we still had strong performance. So we still think that we're going to have some relatively steady activity. If I had to make a guess right now in Q2, I'd say just consider it relatively steady to what we're seeing in Q1, including the whitespace. I think there still is some uncertainty out there. But also, I think we have the potential to improve some profitability as we roll out some new technology and enhance some of the integration.

Yeah, so if you go back to pre-closing, which go back to the summer of 2023, Patterson-UTI universal division was operating in a 12 frac fleets. And those frac fleets were performing well. But the market softened. But look at what next year was doing with vertical integration and all the other services they provide. They provide the wireline services. They're providing power solution CNG. Creating CNG, transporting to wellsite, blending it with natural gas that's available in the fuel gas. And look at the trucking and logistics operation that next year has. We're well over 600 people in that business alone.

And so there's a lot of verticals that we didn't have at Patterson-UTI. So one of the first things that we did as part of the synergies will start to reach out to customers to say, look, we believe we can improve your service if we have control of some of these other services that are affecting logistics and efficiencies and performance at the wellsite.

And so we have added wireline. We have added trucking and logistics. We have added some power solutions onto some of those fleets that didn't have that pre-close. And so that's been progressing. And we had some quick early wins, but we think we'll have continued wins on that from a revenue and profitability standpoint throughout 2024. So that's really how it's playing out. And our teams are doing a great job working together to make this happen.

Yeah, so really pleased with this team on the drilling side. You know what they did year over year, '23 over '22, was huge in terms of improving our performance in the field to sustain the activity levels that we had and outperform the others, but also raised the profitability per rig at the same time. So that was just amazing what that team accomplished

As we work through this year, there was some softening in leading edge in rigs towards the end of last year, in the second half, and we acknowledged that on some previous calls. So we will have some leading edge come down, but we're still running around the mid-30s for all the performance and ancillary technology options that we're offering on the rigs.

So I think that while the costs went up -- costs, I think you're going to be relatively steady, but I think margins will be relatively steady as well. And so our teams have done a great job. I don't think we're going to see this profitability increase that we saw '23 versus '22. But at the same time, I think it's steady and this business is going to throw off a lot of free cash.

Sure. I think for now, our view is that the oil basins are going to stay relatively steady. And so, you know, the rigs that we have working in those basins, which is really about 70% of our rigs are in oil basins. But even though 30% of our rigs are operating in gas basins, some of those rigs are on gas liquids and not dry gas. So it's not full 30%. It's probably closer to 20% to 25% that are drilling dry gas. So I think you're going to see a relatively steady in those oil and gas liquids basins for us.

In natural gas, sure. We're anticipating some softness. We could be down maybe three rigs over the next few months, maybe five rigs, based on where natural gas is trading today. But again, that's off a base of 122 rigs. And then you've got a longer-term outlook as we get closer to LNG takeaway needs.

So could there be some softening in natural gas? Sure. Is it going to be a big impact for the company? No. Is it going to change margin profitability? No. We're performing really well. We don't have a need to reduce rates. We're not likely to necessarily move those rigs out of the gas basins because if you look at the longer term, we're going to probably need them there in 2025. So I think it's still -- I'd still call that relatively steady, even with some potential softening in the gas base.

Yes. One of the upgrades I'm really excited about is some of the upgrades and latest technology in terms of process automation packages that we're putting on the rig. This is really a capital light upgrade. It had to do with electrical systems and software. And when we layer that onto a rig, we add automation capabilities to improve performance and consistency of the drilling operations. And so we're going to go through a steady pace of doing rigs and transforming that. And our customers are excited about that. They want this. This is something that they're asking for and in demand. But again, it's a capital light type upgrade.

Yeah, in terms of customers and M&A, we all can see that there's been huge wave of consolidation from the E&P customers. And when that happens, you're going to get a pause in activity. And for some customers that we're working for that might be a pause for us. For some other customers, it might be kind of a neutral for us in the near term. But you're going to get a pause until they decide what resources they want to use and what they want to do going forward from an operation standpoint.

But when they evaluate that, I think, we are well positioned with our ability to integrate the necessary services to enhance performance on the completion side and even on the drilling side with the new technologies that we're rolling out. So I think we're in great shape for this wave of consolidation that's happening on the E&P side.

Yeah, we acknowledge that there was softening in completions pricing and rig pricing in H2 last year. But I think from where we are this year, it's going to be relatively steady for us. And I want to qualify that for us because we are seeing some whitespace as we discussed earlier, and we are moving some assets. But part of that is just because we don't feel like we want to take lower rates. And so we're going to work to protect pricing in the markets and protect our margins in the markets. And so for us, I think it's relatively steady.

So I'm going to I'm going to start, and then I'll let Andy Smith talk about this as well from a business growth profitability standpoint.

When you think about the e-fleets, we certainly realize there's customer demand out there. We want to have those technology offerings as well. There is improved profitability to be able to do that. And so we are investing in e but also some other technologies as well, not just the e.

So yes, we are working with a couple of different suppliers of electric frac equipment to look and see how the performance is on different types of equipment. And we've tested other equipment in the past. We do request some changes when we get some of this equipment delivered. So what we offer may be slightly different from others using similar equipment. But we have some experience and we're excited about this offering.

We'll continue to evaluate who our suppliers should be and who we want to work with going forward. But suffice to say that we are moving in that direction. And I'll add that we also have a drilling company that has a great history of operating over 1,000 AC induction motors. We also have electrical engineering company that has experienced building high voltage control systems for AC induction electric motors, including for electric frac. And so stay tuned. And we'll keep you posted on how this is going to evolve from a technology standpoint. But we're in it. That's for sure.

Saurabh, as you mentioned, Kenny and the team are doing a great job. There's a number of different teams that are looking at different aspects. We've talked about the different buckets in the past, whether it's increasing revenue, supply chain or some cost savings, and we still have levers to pull on all those and we'll continue to work at it.

I think as we mentioned before, we're already transitioning some horsepower from gas to liquids. And so that's already in our Q1 projections. Maybe we could see some more softness in Q2. If the commodity prices hang in there for longer, I think we'll just have to wait and see how that plays out.

But then if you think about the end of this year going into '25, we've actually been in some discussions with some operators about increasing activity at the end of this year and in 2025. So I take a longer-term view and I recognize there's going to be some softness. It's relatively steady longer-term.

I'd like to commend the team on the completion side for their efficient use of the capital. They've got a good plan in place this year to move us away from having to invest maintenance CapEx in diesel only type engines and pumps as we transition into newer technologies, whether it's electric or other. And so yes, we're investing in the newer technologies. We're also moving away from having to maintain the older technology at the same time.

Well, I'll start by saying there's a lot of different rigs in the market and where we operate are the Tier 1 super-spec rigs, the highest performing type rigs that are on the market. And you saw how we performed last year in a market where the overall Baker Hughes count went down. And yet while we were down as well, not nearly as much as the overall Baker Hughes count because there's still a large number of SCRs and mechanicals in that overall rig count. But I think you're going to see a similar trend this year. We're going to have some softening in the overall market. You're going to see the overall industry rig count go down, but I think you're going to see us in one or two other drilling contractors gain share because of the technologies that we operate, we're not immune to the softening, but at the same time, we're running the highest performing rigs that are out there.

So it's going to be more about overall supply and demand. But I think that overall, you're going to see relatively steady activity from us, even if the market softens and I do think you're going to see the overall rig count have some downside swings with year based on commodity prices or based on some of these mergers and acquisitions and debt consolidation on the E&P side. But I think you're going to see high grading at the same time like we've seen over the last few years.

Yeah. Hey, good morning, Waqar. So a month ago, we talked about three different buckets, one being revenue, one being supply chain, one being cost. I think that to the ones that went the fastest were probably related to supply chain and some savings that we picked up last year as the market softened as well. And we were able to accelerate some of those. You also had some quick wins on the revenue, but the revenue will still continue kind of a steady pace for the next four quarters.

We saw some cost improvements last year, but we'll see some further cost improvements this year. But the early ones to move probably the fastest was on supply chain. So hats off to the team to pull that off.

Because we're just now stepping into more electric than we've been running in the past, the Tier 4 dual fuel is still going to make up the majority of that. But we also do some things to enhance that, especially through our power systems where with our power system, CNG systems and being able to blend CNG and fuel gas that we can enhance that.

The largest portion is still going to be Tier 4 DGB this year. But you'll see a continued transition as we move to more electric and other new 5% natural gas technologies going forward after this year.

I'm sorry, what kind of what?

That depends on what we can offer because we can offer the combination of CNG and fuel gas blending through our power solutions business. We can get anywhere from 65%, but all the way up to 80% displacement on Tier 4 dual fuel, and that's a very popular solution. And so we also do some other things to enhance that that I think we'll explain in future dates.

But as I mentioned earlier today, we have also replaced 100% natural gas electric offerings with Tier 4 dual fuel because there are just some places that an operator can't operate. Obviously, natural gas, it not the right fit. So Tier 4 DGB will still be a large portion of the market, but we are moving towards more electric and more new technology at a measured pace.

Well, first off, the oil markets are still relatively steady. Second gets into performance and how we operate with not just providing pressure pumping but also wireline trucking and logistics moving sand power solutions with natural gas for the customers that are wanting dual fuel or full electric. And so when we offer all those together, we can enhance the performance of the operation. And so that provides efficiency and savings at the end.

We also have very strong customer relationships at Patterson-UTI. We've talked about that for years, but it does matter and we work to protect those relationships too. But we're real excited about how well this completions team has performed, especially coming together through a merger and you saw that in the Q4 numbers, we do recognize related to with the natural gas that things are a little bit softer, but we expect the transition of the horsepower really just to happen in Q1. So those numbers are in our Q1 projections, but the performance is definitely there and the oil basins are steady.

You know, I don't know how much time we have on this call, but it's not one single thing you know, there's a number of different things that are happening and initiatives that our teams have been working on to improve overall performance. You know, there are various components that we upgrade on rigs, whether it's we're adding a pump for better hydraulics for longer laterals, which also includes adding a gen set transitioning to lithium battery hybrid for more than fuel efficiency and savings on the rigs, which is something that we manufacture and something that we charge for and or producing transformer stations for high-line power on the energy side.

On the performance side, it's how we run our real-time data centers and how we share data across the rigs and throughout the field. And the teams that we have that are looking at data analytics and performance and following up with the rigs to make sure that we're maximizing that performance or new software and automation technology that we're layering in where we're going to upgrade some of the electrics on some of these rigs in an asset type light type upgrade and add new software for automation. And we're doing it on a number of rigs today, but we're going to work at a steady pace to continue to roll that out. And it's got great traction in the market and really excited about how that's performing as well. So it's certainly not any one thing that you can point to our teams do a fantastic job, whether it's operations, engineering, technology, real-time performance, data analytics, you go down the list. And it's -- that's what's it's showing up in our numbers.

Well, we're excited about the double-digit growth. We're going to see, I think that you are. So there are some projections on double digit growth in the internationals. We'll see how that plays out in terms of activity. But I think whenever that is on activity, we'll outperform that in terms of growth on the Ontario side.

In terms of product sales, I've got a big focus on the Middle East right now. We're still working on transitioning from just do a drill bit remanufacturing in Saudi to full manufacturing in Saudi. And that's going to increase our ability not only to support Ramco in Saudi Arabia but also be able to export from Saudi into some of the GCC countries nearby and so on. We are we're excited about that. But what drives this growth relative to others performance, and we've talked about this before. You know, Ulterra has a unique ability in the industry to turnaround designs and make the improvements that the operators ask for based on the type of formation and rock that they're drilling. And that team does a great job at that. And so as we start to do more and more work in countries outside of North America in those countries, you're going to experience those performance improvements as well. But so that's why we're really confident about our ability to grow.

So we're not doing any Tier 2 to Tier 4 upgrades. Tier 2 is going to fade away. We're going to start to wind down maintenance investment on those older assets. We've got Tier 4 DGB in place. We still think there's a very strong market and that's going to go for years and Tier 4 DGB. But as some of the older technology rolls out, we're going to see more electric, but also other types of new technology come in different hundred percent natural gas. And so that's how we're making that transition. We're doing it at a measured pace that we think fits the capital allocation and meets the needs of our shareholders who are looking for returns right now. But we're still excited about these investments in technologies that we're making.

Some of that's already out there working in the field, has been for a while. And this is a key addition to what we have out there. You're going to see more of it come in really kind of Q2 Q3. And so that's where you know, we'll get some improved profitability from that horsepower that's working in the field second and third quarters going forward. And so we're really going to it's going to add roughly a couple of more fleets to what we're already working in the field today.

I want to thank everybody for dialing in today for the call. 2'3 was a great year for us. I want to thank our team at Patterson-UTI for everything they did in '23. It was a great year, and we're looking forward to another good year '24, especially free cash flow and returning cash to shareholders. So thanks for that.
