Andy Nemeth
Patrick Industries, Inc. (PATK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Mike. This is Andy. So when you think about the puts and takes and where we sit looking as we’re looking into 2024 right now, I think we feel good about, first of all, where we put the company as it relates to the structure. We’ve leaned the operations out, spent the fourth quarter kind of really making sure that we were lined up for the current run rates as they exist in our markets today. And as we’re looking forward we’ve made a little bit of movement on our forecast as it relates to RV shipments with some potential marine improvement that -- from where we were at before and the mix that we’re seeing.

And so all the puts and takes kind of net to what I would say, opportunity for us to be able to leverage, especially as we look out further into the back half of next year. And so we’re positioned to operate at the current run rates with our margin profile and expect to pick up as we noted, 30 to 50 basis points. I think when we look out and see the opportunities for some up-contenting when we see the opportunity for some increased shipments due to the potential retail environment improving in the back half of the year, we feel good about the ability to leverage this model and drive incremental margins.

So there’s a lot of puts and takes when you think about just sitting where we’re at today, looking out, but they net to what I would say is us being very well positioned to operate at current run rates. We can certainly make adjustments if we need to on the downside, but we feel like things have bottomed out, and we will be able to leverage that on a go-forward basis as the conditions improve.

Sure, Craig. This is Andy. I’ll kick it off, and then I’ll turn it over to Kip as well for some additional color. But as we looked at certainly the Sportech model and what got us confident in the ability to be resilient, especially during a time like this, was certainly the up content on Sportech, the utility concentration that Sportech has and the premiumization of the units that we see. And so we’ve definitely seen in all of our markets the price-sensitive consumer has been impacted and that’s where, again, across markets, we’re seeing more, let’s just call it, volatility or softness.

And so on the upside, though, with the utility vehicle segment and we looked at the backlog that Sportech has in their portfolio today, especially with new product introductions and some of the upfitting that was supposed to take place in ‘22 and ‘23 that didn’t get through the system, we’ve got ourselves confident with some of the volatility that could be there as it relates to some potential softness and feel pretty good about the model that we’ve put together.

So again, we stress tested that model. We liked the business. The team is extremely talented, well-connected with the customer base, but we got comfortable with their mix and their backlog and opportunity with the upfit models. And so Kip, if you have anything else to add, certainly, feel free to chime in.

Sure, Dan. This is Andy. I think as we look at where we’re running today, continuing run rates consistent with what we saw in Q4 and Q3. We’re really kind of projecting that through the first quarter. We do expect incremental margin improvement quarter-over-quarter, first quarter to first quarter, second quarter to second quarter. And so we’re kind of looking at our model today, like I said, we’re positioned very well to operate at these levels. We’ve leaned the organization to be streamlined to operate at these levels with opportunity for incremental uptick if we do see that take place in the wholesale shipments.

But we’re being cautious in our modeling right now as we look at the business, but we’ve sized it appropriately. And again, like I said, we will be able to flex that up very, very quickly, and we’re positioned well from a liquidity perspective. We’re ready to take care of our customers in the event that they do -- we do see some flex up.

Absolutely, we expect it to be accretive, net of the onetime charges. And again, we feel like where we’re at today and what we’re seeing in the order book, we fully expect to be on plan at this point.

Sure, Dan. I think that’s one of the things that we’re most excited about is the position of the organization today, the infrastructure that’s been put in place, the caliber of the team and then the automation and operational efficiencies that we’ve been able to deliver and drive and invest in over the last couple of years, have really positioned us to be able to flex up very quickly and leverage the infrastructure that we’ve got in place without adding a lot of incremental overhead and cost to support that. And so we see incremental opportunity both at the gross and op margin level, especially with the run rates that we’re running at today, which we do not believe our normalized run rates on a longer-term go-forward basis.

So I think that’s one of the things that gets us most excited is the opportunity to leverage this and the earnings power of the organization based on the investments that we made in this business over the last couple of years. And we’re going to continue to invest in automation, as we noted, with our CapEx plans for 2024. We’re going to stay focused on continuing to drive those efficiencies to be able to improve our throughput, our quality and be able to continue to take care of our customers as they flex up. And so again, I think we feel good about incremental margin growth at both the gross and op margin level for the foreseeable future.

Yes. This is Andy. I think we – again, we said we’re positioned today. We feel like we’ve bottomed as it relates to kind of industry production. We think wholesale retail is at one for one. And from a content perspective, we also think we bottomed in Q4 and believe that there’s upside, and we expect upside as we go into 2024 as it relates to our content per unit. We’re still carrying some of the pricing that we gave in the first half of the year on a TTM basis through kind of Q4 when you compare to prior year Q4.

And so again, as we look at kind of 2024, we feel like our CPU has upside potential and are expecting upside potential. We’re picking up business. We have not lost any business. The only shifts really in the content have been related to pricing and mix as it relates to production in the field. And so we feel good about our content perspective. We think that’s bottomed out and look for the upside potential. And we’ve picked up a lot of new business as well to support that. So on the CPU side, we feel good about where we’re at.

Sure, Rafe. I’ll handle that. I think as we -- when you look at the cost structure of our business, our RV business is extremely variable and highly scalable. When you look at our marine and powersports businesses, there’s a little -- there’s a higher engineered component to that has a higher fixed cost structure and especially when you look at where we’re operating today with the Marine business, we’re certainly losing some absorption, but that’s being offset by the flexibility that we see in the RV business from a diversification perspective.

So again, we’re running today at -- we’re operating and assuming our model based on run rates that we’re seeing today. And that’s where we get confidence as it relates to our ability to drive incremental margins as we start to see production improve across these markets. So again, from an SG&A perspective, we would expect a higher SG&A concentration or percent of the mix, but we also expect a higher gross margin component to that with our RV -- or I’m sorry, with our marine and our powersports businesses due to the higher engineered nature of those 2 businesses.

So that’s as it relates to our OpEx and op margin improvement with the opportunity for incremental margins over and above kind of what we’ve said. I think from an overall mix perspective in the marketplace today, again, we think we’ve kind of bottomed. We think that the opportunity for up-contenting in the RV market exists, especially with the mix that we’re seeing today.

As Jeff mentioned in his prepared remarks, it’s usually -- that’s usually the start of the next run when we start to see the RV industry start to improve as we start to see some up-contenting trends. And I think marine content really hasn’t changed a lot. The marine OEMs continue to automate, innovate, add content to units and the consumer wants that up-contented unit is I think the feel that we see out in the marketplace today.

So when you look at the mix that we’re running at, we feel like it’s, let’s just call it, abnormally low as it relates to lower end with opportunity for upside with up-contented units on a go-forward basis. So bottomed out as it relates to mix and then upside potential is how we look at it.

So we love the outdoor enthusiast space and definitely are focused on that, especially with regards to the runway that exists and the opportunity for not only margin accretive businesses, but opportunities to continue to provide innovative solutions across our product spectrum with new businesses that we can partner with in those spaces. So we have cross-market opportunities. And certainly today, we’re working across markets with our businesses in the outdoor enthusiast space. So the ability to leverage that and provide a solution for our customer with additional runway is very compelling as we look at the M&A going forward.

And so we would tell you, RV, marine and powersports are kind of a lane and the total addressable market, certainly with the recent acquisition of Sportech, has absolutely expanded for us to have a lot of options as it relates to M&A on a go-forward basis. And again, I look at where our liquidity position at today, the strength of our capital structure, the opportunity to be opportunistic in the space and continue to look at deals, even today, we are continuing to maintain an active pipeline and want to continue to pursue M&A in that outdoor enthusiast space to continue to drive the business forward.

Thank you. As we wrap up 2023, we must extend our sincere gratitude to the backbone of our success, our team members whose unwavering commitment has been instrumental in navigating the uncertainties that characterize the macroeconomic and industrial landscape this year. We performed impressively versus a record-breaking 2022 and feel confident bolstered by our organizational structure that will continue to grow stronger as a company. Our team’s collective efforts this year not only solidified our foundation but have set the stage for a future with continued strategic advancements and long-term growth. Thank you for your continued support.
