Anirudh Devgan
Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (CDNS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Hi, Charles. This is Anirudh. So, as you know, we have been executing on our Intelligent System Design strategy for six years now. We started this in 2018 and we know for a while that there will be this convergence of electrical and mechanical domains. This convergence of system and semi companies, semi companies becoming system companies and system companies doing silicon, as you all know. And now we have commented that about 45% of our business is coming from system companies.

But this is not -- I mean, we have been executed on this from 2018 and focusing on, of course, our core business, which is EDA, expanding into SD&A, which is what we call System Design and Analysis, and of course AI over the last five, six years. And if you look at our results on SD&A, even in 2023, our business revenue is up 22% in SD&A. And it has been up more than 20% for last several years, whereas that market is not really growing at that rate. So, we are gaining a lot of share in SD&A. And this is primarily due to our products, right, and our customer response. So, the customers have really embraced our strategy and embraced our product differentiation.

So, we first started with Finite Element with Clarity, and that is benchmarking very well, winning a lot of share, a lot of customers. And then, recently, you must have seen our new product in CFD. CFD is a big market. That's the -- there are two big simulation areas in SD&A: one is finite element, which we are already ahead, and the other is CFD. And with Millennium, this is like the one of the most revolutionary products in CFD in the last 30 years. And I can tell you more about Millennium later. So - and then, the third thing in our SDA strategy is we are the only company that has a very strong position in packaging and PCB, which is critical for chiplets and 3D-IC.

So overall, I feel very confident in terms of our market position. The strategy we have implemented for six years, and I see a lot of growth and momentum going forward.

Yeah, hi, Charles. That's a good question on digital. I mean, there are multiple reasons driving that, but I would say the main reason -- and we had good growth in Q4, as you saw in our digital business. But of course, the main reason that's driving that is the AI super-cycle. So, there's a lot more design activity. You will notice some of our key partners increasing the cadence of their major kind of product development.

So, there's AI. In AI, we participate in several ways. One is just the buildout of the AI infrastructure, which is, of course, our great partnership with NVIDIA and all the other hyperscalers. And then, also, our AI-enabled products like Cerebrus and Optimality and overall AI portfolio.

So, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, Cerebrus, which is the flagship product for digital implementation using AI, our business went up 4x, right? So that's also providing a lot of growth in terms of -- so there's one, there's overall much more design activity, especially at the most advanced node, and then AI products provide acceleration on top of that.

And then, the other thing that I had mentioned before, but as people use Cerebrus, which is the overall AI product in digital implementation, it also has a pull-through of the full flow, not just place and route, but also synthesis and signoff. So, what I'm very pleased to see is one AI products like Cerebrus are doing well, but they're also pulling through synthesis. Our position has improved dramatically in synthesis in the last one year and also a lot of signoff engagement.

So overall, I'm pretty pleased with the technology progress, the AI progress. And also engagement with some big customers that traditionally were not using Cadence, and now, like we mentioned, all top 20 customers are using Cadence solutions in digital. So, we'll see how it progresses, but I think it's good progress on digital and I expect that to continue.

Yeah, Vivek, good question. So, first on the IP part, like in '23, I think first three quarters we had, the growth was much more challenged. It's primarily with the compare the previous year, but -- some of the macro uncertainties. But as you can see in Q4, we had very strong growth in IP, more than 30% growth in IP. And also, this whole AI super-cycle, as you know, is driving much more disaggregation, right? So, the 3D-IC is concentrated at HPC and AI application. And that requires more IP, like UCIe or SerDes IP, and then HPM and memory IP. And that's why we acquired assets of -- the five assets of Rambus. And overall our own portfolio in UCIe and DDR and all is doing pretty well. And then, we did several acquisitions to improve our talent in IP.

So, overall I do think, because of AI, because of our own actions, that IP should do much better in 2024. That's our current modeling. And '23 had some unusual challenges, like I mentioned. But going forward, IP business should improve. And we have focused on profitability over the last few years in our IP business. And I think I'm pleased to say that the profitability levels we are happy with now, okay? So, now, I think we can focus more on growth and expanding our portfolio. And you may have also seen that there's all these other activity at most advanced nodes and more foundries. And we're also pleased with our partnership with Intel, Intel Foundry that we just announced today. And also all the other major foundries, but we are very glad to do much more with the IFS and that should also help our IP business going forward.

Yeah. Hi, Gary. So yeah, I think Cerebrus is doing very well. It's deployed at all the top 10 customers. And actually, even AI, in general, we mentioned number of customers engagements are up like 10x in the last 12 months. And so, Cerebrus, run rate -- as we have mentioned before, the Cerebrus business, first the customers will try some and then they will adopt more. So, I think what's good to see in Q4 is what people were -- what the customers were doing and then they have adopted that in a much bigger -- at a much bigger rate.

So, we are happy to see that. I think there is still room to go in that. Like we have always mentioned that we think it will take two contract cycles and we are like -- that's six years and we are like two years into it or two or three years into it. But that's good in our model, right? We want consistent growth going forward, but yes, the uptake in Cerebrus is very promising. And then, the other products are -- came a little after Cerebrus, like Verisium or Allegro X AI or Virtuoso Studio or Optimality, and they're also seeing good progression.

So, overall, in terms of AI, what I'm very happy about is, I mentioned this before also in the last call, we have three big ways to benefit from AI. And this is true for any kind of new technologies. There are a lot of comparisons to AI, but if you compare it to like the Internet, the first phase is the infrastructure development, okay? So -- and this are marquee partnership with NVIDIA, which we have had for more than a decade. And we talked about it today, we're developing AI products with them. Them developing their own chips. Palladium, we are a development partner with NVIDIA in Palladium for more than a decade. And that also puts Palladium in a very strong position with all the other kind of AI developments. So that's the first phase of AI benefit, which is more the infrastructure.

And then, the second phase is like what you asked, which is our own products. And it started with Cerebrus in digital side, but now we have five major kind of co-pilot platforms in all the five businesses. And those are progressing pretty well moving from like initial deployments to more wider deployments. And that's the second phase of AI deployments in which AI will be adopted into existing products, like chip design and system design.

And one thing I want to point out is there's a lot of talk of what is a good application for AI. I believe one of the best applications for AI is chip design. It's because over the last 30 years, we have done so much work in automatic chip design. We have a language like RTL. We have all kinds of optimization we have built in. So, the chip process is already very automated. So, it's an ideal thing to apply AI on top of it for chip and systems design, which is what we are seeing.

And then, the third phase of AI is new products that will enable. And I have believed for several years, and that's why the investment in OpenAI -- the OpenEye. The biggest new market that AI will enable will be life sciences, okay, and biosimulation and bio life sciences. And I think you will see that years going forward.

So, there are these three phases of our AI activity: one is AI infrastructure, two is applying AI to our own products for chip and system design, and third is AI in bio and life sciences. So, overall, I'm very pleased, very confident in our positioning in AI and the results we are delivering.

Yeah, hi, Jay, good question. I mean, as you know, we are a very innovative company and we have done that for years now and we invest one of the highest percentages of R&D -- of revenue into R&D. And then, it's good to have all these new products in multiple areas. Of course, the three big areas being like EDA, SDA and AI. But we don't try to like rank our children. We want all of them to do well. And it's also difficult to predict how it will -- because these are all for the long run, right? So, there is, of course, a lot of momentum with the AI products. There's a lot of momentum with 3D-IC and chiplet, as you know.

There's Millennium, I'm super excited about. I think this is the biggest innovation in CFD in the last 30 years. And I talked about the three-layer cake, right, which is AI orchestration at the top layer, the physical simulation physics-based modeling at the middle layer, and then accelerated computer at the bottom layer. And CFD needed to be disrupted in that context, right? So, we have it -- and we didn't talk about it much when we made the acquisition about two years ago, is this acquisition from Stanford Cascade, which is very, very high fidelity, very accurate to CFD.

So, we had that at the heart of it, and then AI on top, and then accelerate compute at the bottom together with NVIDIA, and this completely changes the game in CFD. For the first time, we are able to simulate entire cars and planes in a few hours. It's almost emulation for systems that have never been possible before.

So, there is a lot of potential in Millennium now, because Millennium is a new product. We are offering both cloud and on-prem. Palladium is mostly, as you know -- on our chip business, Palladium is mostly on-prem, but Millennium is both in CFD. And right now, most of the customers are choosing the cloud version, which is great, it's more ratable, okay? So then, Millennium. And then, you must have seen today, we have this great partnership with Dassault. Actually, I'm also pretty happy about that. Dassault is a leader in PLM and MCAD and overall partnership, we have broadening partnership with Dassault. And then, we talked about our IP business, how that can grow, and this new partnership with Intel and IFS, and hardware continues to do well.

So, I think it's good to have multiple engine, contributing to the growth. And then, we always focus on margin at the same time. So, we are well positioned going forward, but it's difficult to predict which one will do better than the others, and we don't guide on a product basis anyway as of now.

Yeah, Jay, that's a good question. I mean, one thing to point out, our SDA business is about -- in 2023, is about 12% of revenue. It's already at a good pace. And also, it has enough scale now to apply significant of R&D to that space. And also simulation space, right? We know simulation space pretty well. And there's a lot of high R&D synergy from our EDA R&D to SD&A R&D. So, I'm pretty happy with how much R&D we have invested and we'll continue to invest there.

But at the same time, it is also very profitable, okay, which is -- which our model always, right, is not just revenue growth, but also profitability. And which we -- when you asked me what -- we thought it should be more profitable when we started six years ago because simulation is more profitable in EDA. So that's what is playing out in SDA. So, it is pretty profitable. And it has played out roughly to the extent I thought it would. Simulation always is accuracy first and then performance and capacity. And the market is always looking for new simulators, and that's how it has played out in electromagnetic. And then, in CFD now I'm much more confident with this disruption, this massive disruption with Millennium.

And the key thing with Dassault, and we have mentioned this before, as we -- I'm very confident in SD&A. You can see in terms of product synergy, product differentiation, but we have always said that we are a computational software company. So that also means what we will not do, right? So typically things in the system space, which are not as computational are things like PLM, things like implementation MCAD, mechanical CAD platforms, and Dassault is the clear leader in those. They are great in PLM, they are great with SolidWorks, in CATIA, in the high end. So, it's a perfect partner for Cadence, as we focus on computational software and EDA and SDA, packaging and PCB to partner with Dassault, and we're glad to see that expansion that was announced today.

Yeah, good question. I think the shape of the IP revenue last year was a little atypical. I mean, I think the two reasons were in 2023 we had very, very strong Q4, but first three quarters were not strong at all. So overall year is in the single digits, like you mentioned, but a very strong Q4. So, I think there are a couple of reasons for that. One is that there were some tough compares from '22 to '23 in IP, especially in the beginning of the year. And then like I mentioned, of course, last couple of years, the macro environment has been tough, though it is improving now. And then, IP typically gets affected more than others, in terms of a tough macro semiconductor environment.

So, as a combination of that, I think the first three quarters were more challenging. But Q4 and then going into this year, I'm pretty cautiously optimistic about IP. One, our portfolio is better, is broader, and then this whole AI super-cycle, like I mentioned, and then, new engagements we have like with IFS and other companies. So overall, I feel better about '24.

John, you want to comment about the...

And then, we expect the IP growth to be higher than Cadence average this year. We'll see how it plays out. Okay? Yeah.

Absolutely. Even for 30 years, even when I was in grad school, I always believed that hardware acceleration is a massive opportunity for EDA and SDA in general. And you see that borne out in Palladium. So, we have always dreamed about hardware acceleration. And that's why this three-layer cake, hardware acceleration is the bottom layer. And of course, AI orchestration is the top layer. And a perfect example is Palladium.

Now, in Palladium and hardware emulation, what happened is, if you look at overall function verification on the chip side first, it's more than a $2 billion business, okay, I think if you look at all the software. And hardware became roughly 50% of that. So, hardware-assisted verification became almost 50% of chip verification. Now, CFD is also a $2 billion business, okay, and it needed this hardware-based acceleration along with AI. So, I don't know whether it will play out the same way, but there's a potential of a big portion of CFD to go to hardware-based acceleration, okay? Now, it will take a few years, and we are clearly leading in that.

And the other thing it does, hardware-based acceleration or emulation for CFD, is it will improve the market size of CFD as well. Like I was talking to one of these big aerospace companies and they said, current CFD, the current simulation is only done to 20% of the flight envelope, okay, which is unheard of in chip design, right? In chip design, we simulate 99-point-some percent of the use cases so that when the chip comes back it works. But if you look at the system domain, because the accuracy is not there, because the speed is not there, they're only covering 20% of the use cases and all of them only in software. So, the potential with Millennium is one that 20% goes to much closer to much higher than 50%, and then a big portion of that can go to hardware-assisted emulation and verification.

And by the way, the same thing can repeat again, this three-layer cake can repeat again in bio, which is a few years out. But I think right now the opportunity is there in system simulation and CFD. So, I'm pretty optimistic, but it's a new use case for that market. And sometimes the new use cases can take some time to deploy. So, we always have to be cautious about that. But the response so far has been phenomenal. And because they were doing some of this themselves, the customers, but to have a combined solution with AI, software, and hardware. And you are exactly right. It mimics our success we have done on the chip side.

Well, I don't think that will change the competitive landscape at all, is my assessment, in digital or even in SD&A. Because digital anyway, we are competing very effectively in the marketplace. And with this AI, it is pulling in a full -- digital full-flow position. I think your comment may be more tied to part of digital, which is like 3D-IC. But with 3D-IC, we've always talked about there are three big portions of 3D-IC. There is actual chip implementation tools, which is -- I mean, digital is much bigger than that, right? Digital, we have a very big business, which is growing at all the top 20 customers.

But 3D-IC has these three components to it. One is the chip design tools. So, in chip design tools, we are the only company that has both analog and digital chip implementation, okay? And the second part in 3D-IC is package design. And Cadence is the leader in package design, and that thing is still the very strong differentiation, no matter what the M&A news is outside. And then, the third part is the simulation tools like thermal and electromagnetic, and there we are already doing pretty well. So, I'm very confident in our product positioning and competitive advantage, no matter what happens on the M&A side, because anyway, we are competing very effectively.

And then, the other thing that is good about Cadence is we also form very strong partnership in the ecosystem. We talked about Dassault on the SD&A side. But the other one that I want to highlight, we have a lot of news today, but one of the things I want to highlight is our partnership with Arm. Arm is also expanding into what they call Total Design, going into more towards silicon, more towards custom solutions. And we are the exclusive partner with Arm as they go implement that. And that really also helps our digital business.

And so, overall, I feel pretty confident in our digital position, including 3D-IC.

Yeah. I think AI is definitely helping us already. Like you mentioned about our AI tools by itself has gone up by 3x and then Cerebrus more -- higher than that, and then also AI itself is -- the infrastructure part of AI, like our partnership with NVIDIA and all the hyperscalers. So, overall, we are pretty pleased with that. But of course, we are mostly a ratable business. So, these things take like multiple years to bleed in. And I think that's fine. Our model always is to have strong revenue growth and margin growth. So, I think this thing will still take multiple years to come into our model, but I think that's a good thing. It provides multiple years of growth.

Yeah, Joe, that's a very good observation. I mean, definitely the -- we are like -- we are very diversified. We are very ratable. We are tied to R&D, which are all good things in our model. And then, the mood seems to be changing a little bit. '23, as we have mentioned before, was a tough environment, though we kind of grew very well. And there was some change, I feel, in Q4 in the overall -- I mean, you guys know that as well, in the overall macro sentiment. And maybe there will be more investment in '24 and '25. But I think we based our outlook and John can comment more on the backlog that we see rather than guessing what will happen in '24 and '25. But if there is an improvement in R&D, then that's good for our business. But we do see that there's a lot of design activity and then we see our position improving the EDA and IP especially this year and continuing expanding in SDA and AI.

And just to add, AI contributes to -- I mean, the AI design activity, as you know, contributes to hardware strength, given our strong position. And also, AI is more HPC and chiplet based, and it does help our IP business as well, and then, all the comments on Millennium. But let's see how it progresses. But yeah, I mean, the IP is also strong this year along with hardware and Millennium.

Yeah, thank you all for joining us this afternoon.

It is an exciting time for Cadence as we enter 2024 with product leadership and strong business momentum.

Our continued execution of the Intelligent System Design strategy, customer-first mindset, and our high-performance and inclusive culture are driving accelerating growth as we grow our core EDA business while expanding our portfolio.

Fortune and Great Place to Work named Cadence as one of the World's Best Workplaces in 2023, ranking it Number 9.

And on behalf of our employees and our Board of Directors, we thank our customers, partners, and investors for their continued trust and confidence in Cadence.