Anthony Wood
Roku, Inc. (ROKU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Shyam, thanks for that. This is Anthony. Well, like I just mentioned in my prepared remarks, last year, 2023, as a management team, we were very focused on improving our operational effectiveness efficiencies, right-sizing off decks. And we made a lot of progress in that area, achieving positive EBITDA for the full year, a year ahead of our target. So we're very happy with that.

I mean, obviously, we're going to continue this year to push on operational efficiencies, but we'll have a lot more time this year as a management team to focus on innovation and growth. And that's where I'll be spending a lot of my time is just driving some of the fun or improving and adding things to our platform that will drive more growth over the long-term. So that's the big focus for us in 2024 is innovation and growth.

And maybe I could just give a couple examples of the kinds of things that we're doing there just to give you a flavor for it. I mean, there's a lot of things. There's a lot of opportunity in this area. But - so one example is I made some organizational changes recently. And one of the changes is that I tasked one of our most strategic executives who reports to me to focus on driving our subscription business. And, we have a large subscription business, both Roku Channel premium subscriptions as well as building and driving subscriptions for our streaming service partners. So it's not something that's new to us, but it's something that could be a lot larger and is a big opportunity for us.

And so we're consolidating all the activities under one leader who reports to me. We're going to increase resources there. And I just think it's something that we can make a lot of good progress on. So that's one example.

Another example is one of our core strategies in monetization is to take advantage of our, of the fact that 80 million households, approximately 80 million households turn on their TV and start their streaming experience with Roku. The first thing they see when they turn on their TV is the Roku home screen. And it's the place where they start to decide what dothey want to watch, what are they going to watch.

And so one of the things that we do is we build new experiences that engage viewers that are entertaining and that help them decide where - which app they want to run, watch TV show – what TV shows they want to watch. And you can see that in things, just for example, there are features that we've already launched to do this. So for example, we have the sports zone. Sports is an area that's particularly challenging for viewers because it's so fragmented. It's hard for them to figure out, where the game that they want to watch is playing changes by day of week. It changes, based on the league. It's just very complex.

And so our sports zone helps viewers find, games, figure out where they're playing, learn more about sports on the platform. That's one example. The things we've launched more recently, All Things Food, which helps, which is where we curate the best food content across our platform. What to watch.

So, these are the kinds of experiences we're working on. We call this programming our home screen. And it's a core strategy for us. It's a big area of focus. And it's basically a key strategy for us to engage with our viewers while they're trying to decide what to watch. And use that to drive viewing in both our own and operated apps, but also in third-party apps.

So it drives monetization. At the same time, it helps solve the big problem viewers have, which is trying to decide what to watch across all the content in the streaming universe. So those are just two examples. But big focus on innovation and growth for our management team this year.

And then I think your second question was about AVOD launches. So maybe what I'll say there, just kind of taking it up a level. One of the trends that's happening right now in the streaming world is that the streaming industry is maturing. So if you take AVOD, for example, I mean, a couple of years ago, all the streaming services were just very focused on driving subscribers, at almost any cost.

Now the industry is very focused on building sustainable, thriving businesses. And one of the tools that's being used is to add ad-supported, entry-level ad-supported tiers to the streaming service, it's a mainstream solution. It's something that's been, the industry has done since the beginning for television.

So it's not new, but for me, it's a sign that the industry is really starting to mature. And I think the streaming industry. And I think if you, another example of, I think, evidence that the streaming industry is starting to mature is sports. I mean, we're seeing new sports services launched. Used to be that you couldn't get access to sports content without having a subscription to traditional pay TV. That's really changed. Almost all sports, if not all sports, are now available on lots of different channels on streaming. It's very fragmented. It's hard for viewers to figure out where to watch it, but it's there, and it's an opportunity for us.

So I think both of these examples, more sports coming to streaming, the rise of AVOD tiers in streaming, are examples of the industry maturing. And I think what that means is that we're going to see even more viewers moving to streaming, and in particular, more ad dollars moving to streaming.

So, for example, I mean, in the U.S. alone, the TV ad business is over $60 billion, but there's still this really large gap between viewership and ad spend. Approximately 60% of streaming hours, sorry, approximately 60% of TV viewing hours are on streaming versus traditional pay TV, but only about 30% of the ad dollars are on connected TV. So that's a huge gap that as the industry matures, we'll start to close.

So, and I guess that's one. I think one aspect of AVOD is just maturing at the industry, and I don't think it'll accelerate cord cutting, and it'll accelerate the shift of ad dollars moving to streaming. The other thing, I guess, I would say is, as the programmer at the home screen for 80 million active accounts, we're good at and well positioned to help drive viewing across our platform. And we do that to promote our own owned and operated services, like I mentioned, but we also do it regularly to promote third-party services across our platform.

And in particular, ad supported services are very reliant on engagement. Engagement is highly correlated to revenue if you have ads, and we're in a great position to help drive ad supported engagement across our platform. So we expect it to continue to be a good business and growing for us to do that. So that's just a couple examples.

Hey, Justin, thanks for that. I'll let Charlie take the third party partnership question.

Hi, Shweta, thanks. This is Anthony, but Charlie will take questions.

Thanks. This is Anthony. I'll just add a comment on M&E. Although, we've talked a lot about M&E being pressured, I will say that one of the things, it's still a big opportunity for us. We're very good at it. It's something that I expect to bounce back over time and be a growth area over time. This year, it'll probably, it will continue to be pressured, be projected. But the other thing we're doing is we're taking a lot of inventory and creating new inventory that we used to sell exclusively for M&E and we're using it now for brand advertisers. We're hoping, we're increasing the number of advertisers we will give access to that inventory. A good example of that, I think, is Roku's City, which used to be entirely promotions for content. But, we started selling buildings to McDonald's and companies like that and that's gone extremely well for us. Viewers love it. It's tapped into new revenue sources. So, we're going to continue to diversify the advertising in our home screen that we used to use exclusively just for M&E. We're going to start using that for brand advertisers as well.

Hey, Laura. It's nice to hear from you. This is Anthony. I'll let Mustafa talk about it. Mustafa will talk about Roku-branded TVs.

Hey Laura, this is Anthony. Absolutely. I mean, it's a big area of focus for us. We mentioned our food zone, all things food. I mean, that's something that's been, it's gotten a great reception for our viewers. It's an example of building out an experience. This access from our home screen that integrates promotion, both static display promotion as well as it promotes video as well. And, it's just a small example of the kinds of things that we're going to be doing. So it's not, Roku City is one example, but there's lots of ways across the platform that we can drive. We can create experiences that will engage viewers, that will provide monetization opportunities, and that will drive more engagement across our platform.

So, in terms of putting video directly on the home screen, it's not something that we've thought about and it's something that we're thinking about testing, but it's not an area that we've made any decisions on. And I'll just say, I guess the big picture is there's a long list of ideas of how we can create viewer experiences that engage and entertain on our platform around the home screen. A lot of those do include video, but video is something on the home screen that you have to approach carefully. There's always this concern that it might alienate some viewers, but some viewers love it. So, it's just something that we will keep looking at and testing. But overall, there's a long list of great things we can do to add to our home screen to drive engagement.

Hey, Nick. This is Anthony. I see you're referring to the article in the Wall Street Journal. I mean, we can't, obviously can't comment on that. That's a rumor. But I'll just say a few comments in general. First of all, we're the industry leader with 80 million active accounts and growing. And one of the things, one of the primary reasons that we're the leader in streaming platforms is that viewers love our products. They love our brand. They love the delight and simplicity of our operating system. And one of the results of that is many of our viewers have multiple Roku devices in their home. So we've been the number one selling TV OS in the U.S. for the past five years. And we're installed in almost half of all broadband households in the United States.

And, of course, we have a lot of international penetration as well. We have strong retail relationships. We have a great relationship with Walmart. We have a great relationship with relationships with lots of retailers. And we have strong distribution both inside and outside the United States. We have a large, engaged customer base. They love our brand. They ask for our brand. They have multiple products, multiple Roku products in their house. You take that and you think about our leading technology, our innovation in the industry, our singular focus on streaming. Our lower hardware costs. We have lower hardware costs than any other TV manufacturer I'm aware of. All of this gives me a lot of confidence that we're going to keep growing our distribution. We added 10 million net active accounts last year, and we're going to add a lot more active accounts this year as well.

Charlie will take that.

I'll just add a couple of comments, I guess, just seems to be a lot of interest in M&E. I'll just say that -- like we said, it was pressured it will continue to be pressured for a while. But despite that, our platform revenue grew 13%. And then in Q4, the year-over-year growth at video ads on our platform outperformed both the streaming industry overall as well as, obviously, the traditional TV industry.

I mean what's going on with M&E is pretty straightforward. We're a great platform for M&A spend. We have the most advanced tools in the industry. We are very good at it. We're good at helping streaming services, build subscribers and increase engagement. And they spend a lot of money on M&E in the go-go years of the COVID -- pandemic now that they're retrenching and focusing on a sustainable business, that spending has normalized, it's normalized down a little bit. But it's going to continue to pick back up, and over time, it will be a growth business for us.

So I think -- so first of all, just on cost. I mean cost is obviously a big issue. We're not -- I'm not saying that we're not on cost. I mean the company, we take operational discipline very seriously. We just made a lot of progress last quarter -- sorry, last year. And so this year, we have more time to work on some other initiatives and growth is one of those big initiatives.

And for us, for me anyway, there's just so many opportunities across our platform to drive in particular monetization growth that we've worked on historically, but we've never put a huge amount of effort made a focus in terms of monetization growth. And so it's a renew area for us in these areas, and success to me means reaccelerating platform growth rates beyond what we're seeing this year.

Let me just add on to that. So when we look at both the current year and out years, we are very focused on absolute free cash flow, and we're going to get that through acceleration of growth rate on the platform business. So again, when we look at investments, we ask ourselves how does this, of course, impact in a positive way to streaming experience and how -- what's the ROI on this? That second component, is really how we evaluate what we invest in.

So again, we see tremendous opportunity to monetize our platform. We're really just getting started. We're doing a good job. 2023 was very strong, but there's a lot of opportunity as we've grown to these 80 million actives. But when we think about it, again, it's not -- we don't focus so much on a margin percent or an EBITDA, we're focused on absolute free cash flow and free cash flow per share and driving that up over time.

Barton, I'll take the -- I'll start with -- this is Anthony for the kind of some high-level thoughts on international and then -- and then Dan has some thoughts. Just in general, I think overall, we're pleased with our progress internationally. We're the number one in Mexico as well as the U.S. doing some well in Canada. We're doing well in all of Latin America. We're making great progress in Brazil. So we don't break out our active accounts by region, but a lot of them are international at this point. We're making good progress. We're also doing well in the U.K. So Dan, did you want to add something about…

And this is Anthony again. Just on your question about market share and it's been steady or up or down in U.S. Well, I'll just take that question. So globally, if you look at regions outside the U.S., let's say, outside the U.S. and Canada, which are more mature for us. you've seen strong and steady upward trends of market share growth rates. In the U.S., also, we launched Roku TV 10 years ago, and since that launch, we've seen steady increases in market share growth rate. We've seen our bounces around quarter-to-quarter. Sometimes it goes up, sometimes it goes down.

But in general, on average, has been going up steadily since we launched Roku TV. And I actually think there's still quite a bit of room to grow our market share even in the United States because there will continue to be consolidation. There's a lot of TVs sold that run on proprietary TVOS and I've always said and still believe strongly that we're going to see consolidation to a small number of licensed TV OS they just have bigger economy scale. They just have a big in terms of user experience with a leading licensed OS and we expect to be a beneficiary of that. So I think that sort of the trends in market share for TVs are in our favor. In the United States, I expect over time the growth rate to continue to climb, although like I said, they do bounce around quarter-to-quarter.

Jason, this is Anthony. So I think Dan will take that first question, and then Charlie can talk about DSG.

Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for joining. And thanks to our employees, customers, content partners and advertisers. I look forward to an exciting year of TV streaming.