Ara Hovnanian
Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. (HOV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

That's a good question, Alan. And we have certainly been focused on taking our excess cash flow and reducing leverage, and we've accomplished a lot with that. The last few years of making about $1 billion pre-tax has certainly helped us a lot, especially since we're not paying cash taxes right now. So we feel like we've really made substantial progress in debt reduction. We've made substantial progress in equity increases.

So we're definitely going to get more aggressive in top line growth in the coming years, significantly more aggressive. And I think you're going to see that in the results. We found a formula. We don't talk a lot about our actual home strategy, but we think we've got one that's working quite well.

And I think our EBIT to ROI results year-after-year beating our peers shows that, and now we want to take that same result and add to it some top line growth, and we think that's even going to turbo charge the results that we've been producing.

The additional color I'll add is we tend to see more incentives on the West Coast than the East Coast, and the East Coast is certainly an important part of our business. The other thing is we see a little more incentive in the entry-level buyer and the entry level product, who is very dependent on qualifying. So the mortgage rate buy-downs really help, but those mean more incentives.

We also have a significant part of our business which is active adult. There we use far fewer incentives. Most of our active adult buyers get a no mortgage or a very small mortgage, and they are not worried about giving up a 3% mortgage, because they probably paid up – paid off their old 3% mortgage.

So we're seeing a lot less incentive there compared to the first time. And we've got a sizable chunk in the middle on our move-up homes. So overall we're feeling pretty good about the trend in incentives.

Alan, I'd say there's no significant mix factors. We are trying to introduce a few more active adults, but it's not meaningful enough to make a huge difference. I mean, frankly, the market has moved around a lot and the rates have moved around a lot. So we're extremely hesitant to provide more guidance than we're providing. I think a quarter out is fairly reasonable.

Margins are going to be very dependent on what we have to do with incentives, what happens with lumber costs, and a variety of other factors. But on the whole, I don't know what we can tell you. Fourth quarter, our sales are up dramatically compared to last year, and we're giving you a first quarter, which is almost double last year. So you can reach whatever conclusions you want. Our crystal ball is not so clear to give longer guidance than a quarter.

Thank you.

Great. Well, thanks so much. We're pleased with a good quarter. We think we've got some more good news in quarters to come and look forward to sharing those with you. Thank you.