Arie Kotler
Arko Corp. (ARKO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. So you’re referring, Bobby- good morning, Bobby. Are you referring to Q4 or you’re referring to Q1?

I think I will start first of all with fuel, and then I’ll let Rob, maybe chime in related to the merchandise. But related to fuel, as you know, Bobby, OPIS national is down close to 7% for the first quarter. This is something that we’re seeing over here, and we are also seeing a little of that softness when it comes to CPG. That’s, of course, always a tradeoff. So I think CPG and demand and low demand in the first quarter, it’s actually attribute a lot to that. We don’t like to blame the weather, but as you know, first quarter in January this year, we had some weather event across the country in the middle of January. And usually, the first quarter is the slowest quarter in this industry. And we saw the same thing, by the way, happening to us last year. But I think one of the biggest thing over here is, of course, fuel drive – the demand down and CPG a little bit light, it’s something that drive it. But again, I can only speak based off today. Today we are still in February. We are heading next week into March, getting very, very close to the season. And things, of course, can change up and down during basically first quarter, beginning of second quarter.

I can only tell you what I believe. I believe that this is a general trend in the industry. As I said, when you see the fuel demand down in the first quarter, we just see some softness in the market. And again, we’re talking right now about January, and we’re talking during the first 7 weeks of the quarter. And as you can expect, this is like the slowest time basically of the year. And given that we are providing guidance first time over here, we can only advise what do we see over the past few weeks. As I said, as we move towards March, April, May, towards the summer, we believe things will actually start to pick up again as we saw almost every year and we see the same thing.

Thank you, Bobby, appreciate the questions.

And I will answer the question regarding M&A, Anthony. So, as you know, we have over $2 billion in available liquidity to continue M&A. We’re going to continue to be disciplined, but the one thing that I mentioned during this call, and I want to reiterate. In the past 9 years, we closed over 25 acquisitions. Just in the past 18 months, we closed 5 large acquisitions. We had scale – I can say that we probably declare victory when it’s come to M&A. We bought a lot. And as much as I spent time on acquisition, my plan for 2024 is, again, let the M&A team continue to do what they’re doing on a regular basis. But my team, including myself, this is the time for us to peel the onion. I believe there is a lot of levers that we can pull. I believe there is a lot of untaped opportunities that we have inside the stores, given the scale that we’ve built over here. And this is what we are going to do and this is what we are concentrating, starting with the pizza launch just 3 weeks ago and actually a month ago, starting with the pizza launch, we are going to invest in our stores, we are going to spend a lot of time in our stores to start basically to get into the weed and get all of those opportunities that are out there and just make sure that we are tapping on them.

Thank you, Anthony.

Sure. Sure. So you probably saw, Kelly – I’ll start with the three pillars. Pillar number one, of course, is the loyalty. As you guys saw in 2023, we added over 730,000 members basically to our loyalty program. Just in Q4, and this is just an example, and Q4 this is not the biggest Q, but just in Q4, as you can see, enrolled members spent $12.70 versus non-enrolled members that spent $9.62 per transaction, which is approximately 32% more. This is an opportunity for us, and this is something that we’re going to continue to work really, really hard. We had a goal over here. The goal was to get to 2 million members, and we actually achieved our goal in 2023. As I mentioned, our goal is to get to 3 million members, and this is something that we are going to concentrate and work really hard. I believe the pizza program, by the way, that I mentioned earlier, it’s a great opportunity. Just for everybody’s benefit, the whole pie pizza that we created over here for $4.99, it’s only for enrolled members. And if you’re not an enrolled member, you’re going to pay $7.99 per pizza. So we created the opportunity for enrolled members to come in the store and grab this great tasty pizza for $4.99. $3 difference, we believe, it’s going to create the opportunity for people to actually to enroll. So that’s, I think, the first pillar.

The second one is, of course, the core destination. As you guys see, we continue to increase margin quarter after quarter. And the increase in margin is, of course, because of the basket. Our assumption that people are going to come in the stores and buy this great pizza and some other opportunity, like I mentioned, like the $2.99 for a chicken sandwich. Just for everybody’s benefit, the chicken sandwich in convenience stores cost more than $2.99. The non-enrolled member are paying $3.99. And again, this is a great quality sandwich. And the idea is, again, how do we increase the basket. Going back to the core categories, we believe that with those items, as we get into food service and invest more time and having food service, we believe that the core destination will grow, which will grow, of course, the margin.

And the last, basically, point was related to, of course, to M&A. We’re not going to slow down M&A, but we are going to, as I say, to concentrate probably on a little bit larger transaction to make sure that the team is not distracted. But as I said, my plan this year, 2024, Arie, is to spend more time in the stores, make sure that the food programs that we are putting in is basically going to tap into those opportunities that we see out there. I believe that the increase in loyalty and loyal members over here is a tremendous opportunity for us to walk with those members. Our job is, of course, to provide value to those members. We’ve been doing that this year, and with that, we were able still to increase margin quarter after quarter, year-over-year. And if you go back, and I’m finished with that, if you go back just between 2022 to 2023, we were able to increase margin 140 basis points.

The loyal members are coming more often to the store versus the non-loyal member. And I think that would drive the traffic. That’s the reason why we keep saying that the loyal members are spending 32% more. But it’s not only spending more, it’s also basically coming more often to the store. And the reason they’re coming more often to the stores is because on a regular basis, on a daily basis, we send the loyal members – every enrolled members on a loyal basis is getting very valuable promotions that only enrolled members can actually get, and that’s what drives them. And this is right now, if you’re looking basically on the basket right now or on the trend, in 2021, when we basically just started, if you’re looking on our basically sales, which was around 13.9% loyal members, today it’s around 19.3%. When it comes to basically to merchandise sales from a contribution standpoint, in 2021, the contribution just from – merchandise contribution just from loyal members was around 12.9%. Today it’s 17.6%, basically in Q4 ‘23 versus Q4 ‘21 when we just started. So we believe that not only they’re coming more often, they’re actually spending more because of that, and they increase the traffic.

We are just at the beginning of 2024. And if you remember last year in 2023, we also saw Q1 with a lower CPG versus what we saw during the year. And because we are providing first time guidance right now, we can only talk about trend of what we see over the past six weeks to seven weeks. I can’t forecast the year. I don’t see any reason. By the way, this is my belief, Arie. I don’t see any reason for CPG to decline. I still believe that all of the operators out there, from a structure standpoint, everybody have the same expenses and everybody have the same issues dealing with expenses. So, again, given where we are today, based on the trend over the past seven weeks, that’s what we had to put out there. But again, I believe that things shouldn’t change basically from 2023. I think 2022 was a very high CPG, a record CPG year of over $0.41 for the year. But at the end of the day, we finish 2023 $0.02 below, which is not significant. So, I don’t see any reason for those things to change. But again, it’s too early in the year. There are so many things can happen during the year, but that’s where I stand today.

Thank you, Kelly.

In terms of?

Not necessarily. Again, I mean again, what we are doing – just to be clear, we keep talking about optimizing gross profit outside, but I can tell you that we are absolutely focusing on our market share inside the store. So, by definition, when people are driving less, you have less people, of course, coming in. But I mean overall, this is an area that we concentrate. We are competitive outside. We are pricing fuel site-by-site, location-by-location, market-by-market. This is not going across the board. And the one thing that we are watching when we price fuel, while we are trying to maximize gross profit and optimize gallons, we are making sure that we are watching the trend inside the store. I believe that the market that we do business, I think I mentioned it last year, 40% of our stores are in town that have 20,000 people or less. 20% of our stores are in town that have 20,000 to 50,000 people. And again, some of those areas, rural areas, a little bit maybe low-income areas, and I think some of those people are just being impacted by the inflation. And that’s the reason why we are coming up with all of those valuable promotions. For example, pizza for $4.99, you can today feed a family for less than $10. And those are the things that we are concentrating and those are the things that we bring to market. And I think those are the things that are going to help us actually to grab more traffic inside the store.

Sure. So, Mark, I have been around the block for 20 years, over 20 years in this industry. In this industry you have one quarter that is great, one quarter that is maybe not great, but at the end of the day, overall, you are looking on a full year. If you are looking on our company, year-over-year, we are basically down 3.5% from prior year 2022, which was a high record year of over $0.41 CPG. Everybody knows that was a high record year. At the end of the day, we managed the business. And as you can see, yes, fuel contribution is down around, if you are looking for the full year, $46 million. But at the end of the day, if you are looking on merchandise contribution inside the stores, we actually finished the year, sales excluding cigarettes, 2.5% for the year. So, we can’t just watch one quarter or another. We will actually finish the year with 2.5% I mean basically same-store sales, excluding cigarettes. Including cigarettes, it was 0.4%. But the reason I keep talking about excluding cigarettes, and I think that’s something that the market needs to appreciate, this is what drives basically the margin. The margin is being driven by sales, excluding cigarettes. Everybody knows that cigarette consumption is down, and that’s by the way, one of the reason that quarter-after-quarter you see that the percentage of cigarette contribution inside basically our total contribution continue to actually to come down. And sales from other categories, which are the core categories that I mentioned, continue to increase. At the end of the day, we manage the business on a yearly basis and coming off $0.414 per gallon year, we managed the business ending up with $290 million, which is only 3.5% below the high record year. So, I think we did a very good job on that.

Appreciate that. And maybe I can just comment on the NTI, because you mentioned NTI. And I think that’s going back to what I think the rest of the team actually asked earlier, including Kelly, about opportunities. And I just want to be maybe mentioning that. We have three NTIs. We are breaking down on the first one in the next few weeks. We have there NTIs for 2024. And one of the things that we have never discussed before, in all of those acquisitions that we did, a lot of those acquisitions came with additional land and additional opportunities. And this is the opportunity for us right now to tap into those opportunities that we bought in the past. That’s one thing. The other thing, as I mentioned, is the express store that we just opened on a Quarles location. Remember when we bought the Quarles location over 1.5 year ago, which was a great deal for us, great transaction for us. Unmanned locations for diesel, 180 sites that we bought in July 2022, and we told people that our goal at the end of the day is to figure out a way how to tap into those unmanned location, how to tap our retail business, because the retail business bring a large contribution. We just opened an ExpressStop unmanned location on one of the Quarles stores in Richmond, Virginia. And the idea is to continue to expand those opportunities. The idea is to continue to expand retail, tap into all of those acquisitions that we did in the past and expand them with our loyalty, with our food service. Because at the end of the day, that’s what actually drives the margin, that’s what actually drives the contribution over here. And I can tell you that we are laser focused on that, especially now in 2024, coming off so many acquisitions that we did over the past few years.

Thank you.

I can’t talk about a certain store or talking just on a market. We are watching, of course, the market. We are seeing some competitors coming into different markets and some of them that we are operating, of course. But this is not something new to us. I mean, we always have competitor coming to some market. We are coming to some market as well. So I don’t see anything over here that is different than what we actually saw in the past.

So this is one of the things that I mentioned about Investor Day going and basically providing everybody our strategy. This is something we are evaluating at the moment. There is no question that we made our first heavy step into food service and we are going to continue to do that. And this is one of the things that we are evaluating. The idea is to invest in stores that we see potential and opportunities and this is something that we are going to present to everybody just a little bit later in the year.

Appreciate that. Thank you.

Thank you, operator. Thank you all for joining the call this morning. Great questions from everybody. Really appreciate that. We are looking forward to continue to discuss with you later in the year. And we hope that you guys are going to stop in our stores, especially we don’t have in New York, but we have 30 some other states that you guys can go in and buy the valuable pizza for $4.99 as long as you are an enrolled member, don’t forget that. Thank you everybody. Have a great day.