Arkadiy Dobkin
EPAM Systems, Inc. (EPAM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think it's exactly what you said. We were [taking] (ph) a lot of activities in Q4 and a lot of conversations still happening today, but decision going to delay still. And in our view, how these activities were increased, we do believe that future delays would be very difficult to kind of hold, because the companies will need to address [growing debt] (ph). And we've taken, at least, we're thinking right now pretty responsible view of what might be happening at this type of increase based on discussion of many programs and kind of desires which we have during the last months should become to some realization. And we kind of planning and shaping our activities around it.

Yeah. As everybody say, it's still a lot of experimentation, but we highlighted something which we do. And there is a quest to implementations happening as we speak. Still the program is not very sizable, but what we also see is that a lot of proof of concepts actually proven to the point that it will trigger additional tail of data engineering programs a lot, because while experimentation going well and proof of concept looking good, usually the data for this type of activities is [massaged] (ph) well enough, and as soon as you go into production activities in many cases, it's triggered visibly need to invest in data engineering and different activities to at scale provide the data. And that's why also we believe that this trigger will happen and the amount of work for these type of activities will bear some fruits to us as well.

I think I would add to the follow-up. Like, if you remember our original guide, one year ago, at the beginning of 2023, so it was a way kind of optimistic and revenue was higher than we guided today for 2024. So, which means that we prepare it for the growth and number of people that you have back then were corresponding to our source. Then, 2023, in this case, become for us an adjustment period when we have to bring relative numbers to this kind of to reality. And on top of this, as we've changed, we were adjusting our thinking about market from cost perspective as well. So, 2023 was actually 12 months when we were bringing us back to shape to changing condition. From this point of view, it's very much in line with our guidance for this year. We're still keeping the series kind of investments to be able to start hiring back to trade in big quantities, so we feel about this number as pretty comfortable and actually reflecting the reality.

I think this adjustment is happening. What I don't believe is the revenue per employee exactly the kind of the metric which reflects the reality because it depends very much how we kind of optimizing our delivery locations. India is growing, and India, for example, growing not little, I think it's 20% last year. I think it was much higher a year before, like more than 50%, okay? So, which has actually definitely impacted revenue per employee. It's the same like switch between people moving from Eastern Europe to Central Europe, or growing in Latin America, that should be taken into account, not talking about [indiscernible]. So, simply not looking to this metric as a critical metric for us.

Look, I think it's interesting question to address. First of all, because there is a lot of uncertainty even how quickly productivity will be growing and we're watching this very, very carefully, what type of new people will be needed actually in the market. And we put in a lot of investment efforts and that's what we shared already, specifically in these activities. What it means that we need to like to watch practically month by month, quarter by quarter, how productivity improvements would be realized and how clients will be kind of supporting this, because there are a lot of questions about legal aspects of generating the code or doing assisted -- AI-assisted development. So, it's about what actually we'll need, like, year from now or later. So, on the ability to hire -- and again, we invest here, we play and we're watching this very, very carefully.

So, on the ability to hire, we're keeping all our core previous investments in educational training for juniors, and again, it's how and what we're going to train is changing on the fly during the last time, and we're going to continue changing. But we're pretty confident that we would be able to accelerate when needed, especially with the softness of the market. During the last several years, a lot of talent was produced on the market in junior levels, which is not necessary while finding jobs. So, I think it's building up right now and when market will be back with everything what we did before, we feel kind of normal to increase capacity.

This is all proportionally...

In one quarter, the demand will not jump as crazy. So, it's still going to be spread around the quarter. We're still not -- don't seem right now the demand will be performing kind of in 2021. It will be much more softer. And if you remember 2021 and it was very quickly become hot market, we were performing pretty well.

I think we were talking about it many times during the last year, but at the beginning of the year when we were much more optimistic, we didn't realize that impact of the war raised risk profile for EPAM and uncertainty that we will be able to navigate the war. So, a lot of calls clients were doing in the middle of 2022 which kind of delaying decision with us or actually going to -- starting to replace, not put a new [repeats] (ph) to us, but unfortunately, we realized impact of this only kind of at the end of the Q1 2023.

And some of these actions make a pretty long-term impact. We still have clients who declining, because when decision is done and they signed with somebody else, it's happening. So, this is very visible impact in 2023. Plus, economy -- and that's why I would say the simultaneous impact of these two things were the most critical for us, which really put us aside from our competitors, which was only one part of this challenges. So, when economy started to slow down, then again, competition for rates, cost and everything else pick up. And this was second one.

So, positive things which we also mentioned that there are some clients who are coming back to us, and some of them growing as well, but definitely this is part of 2023 and partially will be, for us, part of 2024. If you think at the same time that how we were bringing some new business to compensate this, that's kind of a positive part of the story. Declining in 2024 definitely will be smaller than decline it was at 2023.

It's -- yeah. It's multiple factors. Some of them become much more comfortable with Ukraine because it was any impact of the quality of interruption. So, some were thinking we'll be leaving and now staying there. So it's also, we prove that we can deliver from different locations. India was probably one of the kind of major critical components here. And third one, I think that when you're removing some order works to some competitors, the results were not satisfactory as they started to come back to us or waiting when their commitments with new vendors will be kind of expired, and it will be possible to come back. So, I think it's between all these lines.

So, I think when we're talking about increasing the client number, it's true the difference with previous year that this is smaller clients, smaller --- clients maybe not smaller, but smaller engagements. And overall, it still feel a lot of pressure from all, more competitiveness. And it's all coming back to our statement that we actually adjusted our behavior during the 2023, okay, and started to use different approaches to kind of protect client base as well. But it was much more visible all the transition between first half and second half of 2023. We're still seeing that something similar will be continuous for this and next quarter. And that exactly explain all these dynamics and competitive situation. We see that clients starting the programs, we participated in this bigger programs than they were considering in the first half of 2023. So, we think this acceleration will be happening and second half will give us opportunity to demonstrate it.

One word I just -- okay. I lost the point which I was bringing. Maybe later, I'll add.

Well, what I wanted to say is actually my -- our usual remark. Until the full speed, what we kind of all expecting from margins and from the real growth, it's still function of right demands. And this right demand, we consider it will start to be realized on second part, okay? At what level? So, we put it conservative right now. At least we think that it's conservative or realistic right now. Yeah. So, what would be happening still this year, definitely less predictable than kind of before war years. We all know that it's not about us, it's about the whole the IT segment.

So, I think, still there are, at this point, a lot of experimentation and a lot of kind of more straightforward thinking about GenAI, as it's available practically for the end consumers and how this can change interfaces. And again, very straightforward that everybody is thinking how to have a right access to the hybrid data between general sales, the specific ones and most of the companies experimenting in this area and created some type of copilots. And I'm talking about application of areas and just utilizing GenAI as a activity tools for individuals and [we work as subs] (ph). I'm talking about, like, client-facing capabilities, new insight. The difficulties of this is it will be changing quarter by quarter. And, I think some exciting things which we see right now would become very quickly commodity and much more sophisticated since it'll be happening like 12 months from now.

Very early, like you said.

Thank you very much as usual for your questions. I think we're feeling in general this stabilization happening. At the same time, we're feeling that a lot of unknowns ahead of us and some trends, which were driving the market and our performance in 2023, still actually critical for 2024, but, yeah, we feel much better after showing that we can stabilize the revenue, the client base, and even little but some growth versus continuous decline, which was happening in previous four quarters. Thank you very much, and talk to you in three months.
