Ashish Khandpur
Avient Corporation (AVNT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Let me just answer that one to start with and then Jamie will add to it. As you heard in the prepared remarks, we are not providing guidance on the sales per se. But to get to the estimates that we have provided on the range, you will see that you will need sales to grow from low-single-digits to mid-single-digits as a total range.

With respect to your second part of the question on inflection point, I think it's the story of first half/second half, as we see it. I think it's going to be a pretty flattish first half if you ask me. And then most of the demand growth is built into the second part.

So, Jamie, would you like to add something?

Mike, I think a couple of things here. One is that, in the near term, as we pointed out, our growth drivers, the four growth drivers of sustainable solutions, composites, healthcare, and the emerging regions are going to be a catalyst for not just growth, because they are in high growth markets growing at 5% plus end markets, but also for margin expansion because they're accretive to the margin. So I think that will help you with percentages to get better as that pie grows. So, right now, those four growth drivers are 60% of the revenue. And so, as they continue to grow, they become bigger piece of the pie and create more value.

Then on top of that, in the near term, we can augment that growth further by really notching up cross selling and collaboration across businesses, as well as replication at scale, which means, really, how fast can we replicate our success with one customer at other places with scale, especially with some OEM accounts, that's a great opportunity for us.

On top of that, over time, we can build the new growth vectors, which could be coming from markets which are growing fast. There's lots happening in the world of technology, in the world of regulatory, and so on, so forth. And so, those create opportunities for us because materials will play a big piece as those technologies are getting realized. And so, for us, it is finding a couple of more growth vectors that will scale where our technology portfolio is relevant and where we have access to the customer.

So, I think a combination of those three things that I mentioned would give us not just growth, but also good margin expansion because we will be differentiated.

As you've heard in my prepared remarks, one of our top priorities is to grow top line growth organically profitably. And so, I think that sets the starting point for our capital allocation strategy as well. We will invest more in organic part than we have been. And as we identify new growth vectors, that will need more resources, not just R&D, but also commercial as well as operational side. But I think organic growth will be our top priority.

On the M&A side, we have done a great job with the portfolio piece that Bob mentioned in his remarks. And we are still integrating the two big acquisitions we did in the last three years. So, in the near term, I don't see any big acquisitions, but I will not rule out acquisitions per se. We have a cadence on M&A. And if any acquisitions are done, they will be smaller in size and probably bolt-on.

Of course, our commitment to giving back to shareholders on dividends is there. We continue to expand the dividends as our earnings will grow. That commitment is there.

Finally, we have been paying debt. Over the last 15 months, we have paid $300 million of debt. And as our earnings grow and demand comes back, we will have flexibility in either paying the debt back or buying back shares. So those decisions can be made as relevant.

Maybe I'll start. And if Jamie would like to add to that, she can do that. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, right, the packaging and consumer declined slower than what we would see in typical seasonality from Q3 to Q4. So that was a positive, of course. And then, as we are looking into Q1 and how things are shaping up, we are seeing that those trends are continuing in the right direction. So we feel pretty good that most of the destocking is over in packaging and consumer markets.

With respect to geographies, I think we still see some slowness in the European market with packaging and consumer. Although the destocking is over, but the demand side is a little bit slower. But rest of the world, we are seeing underlying demand to keep moving in the right direction going forward.

Although I come from a big company, I can tell you Avient is pretty strong with processes and R&D capabilities as well. The biggest thing that R&D can do really good is focusing on the customer and starting from there to innovate. And I think that's one thing that Avient gets very well. So I'm really impressed with the customer focus this team has. The collection of technology portfolios, over time, with different acquisitions has given us many building blocks now that we can start putting together, mixing and matching, collaborating across businesses to create more value than what we have been doing in the past. That's an opportunity for us going forward.

From our perspective, we see that the team has done a good job maintaining the pricing discipline, even as things have begun to normalize. So we don't see much impact of pricing decrease on revenue. If there is anything, it's going to be very isolated and minimal in nature. We feel like we create differentiation, and by bringing value to the customers, and that gives us a little bit more sticking power and competitive advantage versus our competition.

On the CAI side, the color side, we should see expect incremental margins just because we have done a lot of good work there with respect to driving synergies, but also the cost reductions and things like that. So, that should translate into – and you're seeing that in fourth quarter, the results that Jaime showed, how strong the margin was. And there, the team has done a great job on cost reduction, maintaining price discipline, and also margin expansion.

Actually, with respect to R&D on the organic side, if you think about Latin America, specifically, the biggest markets are packaging and consumer. And so, we have to work – as nearshoring happens, whether that goes into whatever industries are playing, wherever our customers are playing, we have to play with them in that part of the world. And that's what gives us the market to speed advantage, that's what gives us the closeness to customer advantage, and the relationships that we build.

I think in the end, we follow where our customers are going. And if Latin America becomes a bigger hub, we will accordingly scale our operations and our capabilities in that part of the world as well.

Service intensity, as you said, a lot is happening with respect to the world changing, as the intensity is increasing, but there's also technology getting available to serve customers better. And I think a little bit of that is what Jamie was mentioning, with the S/4HANA and utilizing data to serve customers in a more efficient way. So I don't expect our SG&A to grow bigger with respect to serve the intensity for the customers, to serve our customers better. I think our teams are doing a very good job in terms of really doing the best use of customer stratification and utilizing data and information to serve our customers in a more proficient way.

And even technology, especially in our color, for example, we are now using digital tools to turn around color matches faster with our customers from four days to two days, for example. And I think that's a real improvement and will give us a competitive advantage. So that's just an example of how we're using technology to serve our customers better.

On the R&D at 3%, I don't think there's a magic number for R&D as a percentage. As I said right now, we are looking at how we prioritize whatever we are spending in the places where we should be spending it, which are the areas of growth for us, and are we feeding them in the appropriate way? And as we evolve our strategy and build new vectors, if we need to add more, we'll do that not just in R&D, but other parts of the organization as well because, I said, everything has to be linked to the strategy in the end. And whatever is needed to do that, we'll put resources accordingly.
