Avner Applbaum
Valmont Industries, Inc. (VMI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Brian. Yes, I'll take the question. So overall, our projections of reduction between 15% to 20% are based on what we're seeing based on the USDA projection showing a 24% reduction in the net farm income. We're seeing softness in Brazil based on the grain prices around soybean and [ph] higher interest rates. So they're impacting overall our farmers and farmer sentiments and that's why we provided that guidance of reduction. However, starting the year in North America, we're actually seeing our orders stronger than they were a year ago. So that is encouraging for us. But overall, our expectations are that the year is going to be down. And going into this year versus last year, we're actually going in without any backlog. So it doesn't give us a lot of visibility into the year.

They're going to be pretty much similar both down the same percentage.

Yes. So of course, we're very much aware of the situation in Egypt, and we do continue to monitor that one very care [ph] closely. As it relates to the project, we started shipping it last year. We do make sure that before every ship, we make sure we minimize and we reduce our risk to make sure we have our confirmation of LC in place before we ship the product. So right now, I'd say the majority of the project is still expected to ship in 2024. And of course, the timing of these projects is always difficult to predict based on all the variability in that region.

Sure. Yes, we have.

And let me just add some context [ph]. We're very pleased with the fact that we're able to maintain our operating margin percentages despite a very challenging ag environment. In the past, when you have these similar type of reduction, it would have a much larger impact. But all these actions that we took and the improved profitability we have in the other businesses really allows us to kind of maintain these profitable levels in 2024 and beyond.

Yes. Thanks Nathan, and that it's very critical for us. What we've done with this org design really helps our organization to be more agile, we can make quicker decisions. We can move quickly. We have better access to data. We were quicker than the market. We have better visibility into the market. And we're able to work in this organization with better transparency, and better collaboration will help us drive innovation. So overall, we have an organization now that it's structured, so we can capitalize on these market trends and keep driving innovation and drive strong returns. So we are already seeing some of that impacts on our business and excited about our ability to move forward and capitalize on these strong markets.

Yes. So when we look at our overall long-term targets, what we've done here, we've taken a more flexible long-term approach, to our whole commitment of driving sustainable, profitable growth and value creation. So we’re really not looking specifically at a beginning or an end point. It’s to account for cyclicality of these businesses. It aligns well with the industry practices. So we’re looking at – through the cycle, is how we’re looking at it. It allows us – gives us the ability to keep on investing, innovating, not even for the short term, but beyond five years.

So overall, I wouldn’t look at it as a specific time horizon. It’s through this cycle. And our overall goal is to continue to drive sustainable profitable growth, create shareholder value, and we will provide periodic updates on how we’re doing on our strategy and how we’re responding to the market dynamics.

Yes. We’ve not provided an EPS guidance. I mean we’re, of course, expecting earnings to increase. However, since there are so many elements of EPS that are tied to overall your capital allocation, our capital allocation strategy, such as share buyback, dividends, acquisitions were not included, we felt that it would not provide any – would not provide any benefits or providing an EPS guidance at this time.

Yes. So overall, what we’re looking at is, we are growing our overall agriculture business and focusing on growing our part sales, right? The way we’re looking at it overall in the Agriculture segment, we’re going to grow above the market, above mid-single digit with the overall focus on how do we help our growers provide them with solution as it relates to our products offering and solutions, including all the aspects. And it is an important part of our business. It does have better-than-average margin. But overall, we’re looking at the whole irrigation in agriculture as a whole.

Yes. So overall, when we provided our long-term goals, we expect to generate strong cash flows, which we’ll use for our capital allocation, and we specifically look at our long-term targets as organic and areas like acquisitions and share market are not included. But when I look at our capital allocation priorities, number one is, we invest in ourselves. It is CapEx. We know our business, the best those organic opportunities we have today are significant. When you kind of look at those market drivers the energy transition, the aging infrastructure, technology, data and consumption around the infrastructure and agriculture around food security, population growth sustainability. There is a lot of opportunity for us to invest in our own – in ourselves, in our own footprint and in our own innovation. So that is the number one those have the strongest returns for us.

The second part of our capital allocation strategy is acquisition. And when we look at acquisitions, we’re going to take a disciplined approach. We’re going to make sure that these acquisitions are close tied to our core. They’re synergistic. They are markets we know, the products we know and to keep on driving strong value. We – at a very high level, our objective is always to beat cost of capital by year three. We like these acquisitions to be accretive very quickly with year one based on the synergies that we have.

And then we will look at share buybacks based on other uses and needs of capital and then dividend. So that’s a role how we look at it. And one last point is when you look at 2024 and our elevated capital is just a testament that we see a lot of opportunities to keep on investing in our business to drive sustainable profitable growth.

Yes. So overall, Brazil, when I look at it, we are coming off three record years, so very strong years in Brazil. And as we keep on increasing our business in Brazil, all the new machines, that will generate additional parts business. We’re seeing that with the lot of activity. We’re also have in Middle East and North Africa. So as we keep on putting pivots in the field, we will have additional part sales.

The other element in Brazil is right as we work on more than two crops, three crops, we get a lot of usage when we triple crop in Brazil, which again, machines will run more, they'll need more hours, same dynamics in Africa. So that will provide us a good runway for the future in those markets.

So we've seen challenging environment in the telecom business. As we've noted in previous calls, we've seen softness there based on the carrier spending. We're expecting to have a difficult comp in the first quarter of this year as well, looking forward. So right now, we're expecting 2024 to be a difficult year for us. And a lot of that is in North America. We have significant opportunities for us globally and we are investing in that area and we should be seeing growth going forward in some of those geographies as we expand our business. But as you look at some of those megatrends around data consumption, around 5G densification, I mean, it bodes very well for us in the long term, the need to keep on the cycle of the 5G. So excited about the long term, 2024 is going to be a bit challenging for us is how I see it.

So we are extremely bullish about the TD&S market. We are seeing very strong demand in those areas based on the energy transition, we're seeing load growth, the renewable energy need to connect that to the grid. We talked just a minute ago about data consumption, you need more data centers, energy growth based electrification, those are very, very positive areas for us and we're doing well in all those areas. And our ability with our product offering to really help solve for our customer needs, if it could be concrete steel or other. We have strong alliances with our partners and we keep on strengthening and working with our alliance so we could help them be successful in the years to come. And then there's a lot of projects that we bid on as well and we make sure that we price those based on the value that we provide and the services that we provide. So overall, yes, we continue to maintain our strong relationships and capitalize on this strength of these markets.
