Barry Biffle
Frontier Group Holdings, Inc. (ULCC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, so Duane, I think what's important to note is our stage is going down. So I think to be intellectually honest, that's why we're pinning it to 1,000 miles, and we expect to be down 1% to 3% on a stage-adjusted basis, but we expect it to be closer to 900 for the year.

Thanks, Duane. It's the first time we've been asked that question. We are 100% focused on our business and delivering profits for our shareholders. So sorry, but we don't have anything entertaining to talk about.

Well, I'll talk about the pilots, and I'll let Mark talk about the utilization. But on the pilot side, we've seen a dramatic change in the marketplace. I think -- I mean you've seen the regionals looking at this. And I think when you see the regionals being able to be staffed, I think that tells you everything you know about the shortage of pilots. So we don't see any challenges there.

No. These just opened. I know a lot of people that have been open for multiple years are starting to include it. We didn't include it in '24, but we have included it for '25.

Yes. No, thanks for the question. I mean we don't expect the situation to change. I think the weather has been a little more kind to the industry. But we do continue to see kind of hints of these extended ground delay programs. So I think the next test is kind of President's Day weekend then you've got all the weekends through the spring break season in Easter, particularly you have to watch Florida and what that does to ground delay programs.

But we are not waiting for the situation to change to improve our trajectory, we are taking control of the situation, and we are designing our schedule around these issues and expect them to continue through the spring and summer. And when we look at last year, we added several percent of our flights that were canceled in the summer. And the majority of those, like 90% were related to multi-day trips. And so we have to change the network to ensure that we combat these challenges and overcome the reliability issues. So -- but we feel really good about it because if we make everything look like the out and back that we had, we expect to continue to improve our reliability as we've seen in recent months.

Yes. Jimmy kind of alluded to this, we'll let him answer that question.

Yes, Mike, this is Barry. We expect no financial impact -- we expect no financial impact from the GTF.

Sure. So look, I mean, we're not making a major strategy shift to go after business. I mean, historically, we've been in the mid-single digits for business travel. And the majority of those, we believe, are small business. But yes, we've heard from our customers, they would like to see kind of a bundled fare available through third-party channels. That's something we haven't had in the past. And so we have launched the Biz fare, which includes a bag, carry-on bag. It includes actually premium economy seating if it's available as well as flexibility, no change cancel fees. So it's a great product for small businesses. It saves them money.

Obviously, we don't have the frequency that the big airlines do. But I think for some people that want to save money, it's a great product. But we just didn't have anything if they did have a managed travel partnership with a travel agency, we just didn't have a solution for them, and now we do. And so look, you can kind of do the math. If you just get a few points of this at 30% to 50% higher fare, it's a great way to diversify our revenues and improve our overall RASM.

Yes. We don't actually guide RASM, but look, I think you can look at the initiatives that we've talked about and kind of play those out. They continue to roll out as we move through the year. So you would obviously expect the cadence of that is that you will continue to see more accretive RASM improvement as you move through the year as the initiatives mature and go out.

I mean you take the Biz fare, for example, that we just talked about a moment ago, we just launched it last week. I mean it's -- we're starting to discuss with certain corporations, getting it on their shelf and getting there. But there's just a lot of different paths to revenue diversification that we're focused on, but they all have slightly different timings as we move through the year.

Well, we've given you the first quarter and we've given you our year. So you can kind of -- well, we didn't break out quarters two through four, you can kind of do the algebra to figure out what that takes to hit that number. And I think if you take that into the second-half of the year, you will see that the run rate of that delivers well against 2025.

We don't call that out. But I think the best thing to think about, Stephen, is that the reason why it's there is because had we debt financed, it's the most fair way to compare it. So they get the benefit on the debt financing side, we get it through the sale leaseback. but we don't actually call that specifically out, but it would be similar to people that have yet. I mean the P&L impact will be similar to those who debt finance.

We're really excited about our partnership with Volaris. It's been disappointing, obviously, that given the challenges over the last few years in their category that we haven't been able to exploit that partnership, but we're excited to get that back turned on this year and we expect to do great things with it. We're larger now. We have a greater brand presence. We have more distribution power coming. But we're seeing them growing as well in their position. But we never had ATI with Volaris. It's just a true partnership where we have a co-share and overall marketing partnership. So we're excited to get it turned on. And I guess, if you think about it, I guess we'll have a little bit more of a level playing field if what they're saying comes through.

I think if you -- in normal course, I think those assumptions are correct. But having been a part of processes like this over the last 30-years, I think you have to consider that where we're pulling this capacity from is a negative opportunity cost. So when you're not doing well financially on those, the redeployment in many cases, is almost immediately accretive when you move to better market opportunities. I mean I'll give you an example. If you're flying something 4 times a day, and the fourth frequency didn't add any more revenue, but you had all these costs. Moving that frequency somewhere else, that gain to the network is 100% incremental.

Yes. I appreciate the question, but we haven't actually broken that out in detail. But I can tell you the majority of the benefit both this year and next year is going to come from the network and the shift to the VFR flying and away from the oversupplied leisure markets. And then each one of the others are smaller contribution. We haven't expected huge things from the Biz fare, for example. We think that takes a while to mature.

Obviously, the frequent flier things take time to mature. But early signs are fantastic, right? I mean, as Jim mentioned earlier, you think the credit card spend alone. I mean, within a month of launching it, the spins up over 10% year-over-year, so which is just huge. So -- but sorry, we're not giving a breakdown of each one of those components.

Sure. Look, as I said a while ago, we've given the first quarter and we begin the year, so you can do the simple algebra and solve for X to figure out what that has to be obviously, as we've discussed, the diversification of the revenue has multiple components that actually unfold through the year. And so obviously, that will have better -- greater benefit in six months from now than it will two months from now. And so I think when you play that out, that actually -- and then you annualize that in the back end into 2025, you can easily cover what we expect to be somewhere in around $0.25 the headwind of our labor deals. But we believe that we can solely get back to the 10% to 14% range for 2025 as a result.

Yes. We've seen -- thanks for the question. We've actually seen against what our earlier expectations were kind of a slowdown in attrition. And so we've seen that coupled with other kind of canaries in the coal mine around the industry. So you've just seen a big change in that. And so to give you an idea, we've needed in round numbers around 30 pilots a month, right? And to get those with attrition for the last several years, we generally hire 60, right?

And so what happens is that if your attrition dries up, you could -- because of the timing, it takes, call it, six to eight months to get to the full kind of training of a new first officer, then you have a training of a captain and kind of to create a crew. So if you see a material change in the attrition, you could actually very quickly be 200, 300 pilots way too many. In addition to that, we're seeing efficiencies in the out-and-back schedule which is going to actually change kind of our needs of pilots per airplane. But then I would just also add that we have actually we invested significantly in our programs to bring in pilots.

So we have a cadet program. We have a rotary transition program for the military. We have our college programs. And so we just have a really robust pipeline, and we're seeing a lot more stickiness with the people. So like people we've hired in the last like 1.5 years, two years have a much lower attrition rate than people that we hired more than 1.5 years ago. And the other thing is we have over 700 cadets in our pipeline right now. So if you just do the math and cadets alone, we have over two years' worth of supply. So it's I think the marketplace has changed dramatically in the last one to two years.

Yes. Look, so we -- I mean -- so let me be clear. So we've seen some capacity received against one of the biggest examples we saw Spirit leave out of Denver. We've seen capacity against this in Puerto Rico and other places start to recede. And look, we can look at DO just like everybody else can and understand that the fares that some of these carriers we’re seeing were some of the lowest quartile of their revenue and the best way to stop losing money and stop doing things that lose money. So I think people are making rational decisions around the system. We expect people to continue to do that, but we have only captured in our guide the changes that we've seen thus far. But we would expect to see continued kind of rationalization of oversupply, especially in a lot of these leisure markets.

Sure.

So no, we don't expect any change to our aircraft or I think our scheduling is becoming simpler because of what we talked about with the simplification of the network. As far as the markets that we're chasing, I mean, it's very clear. I mean, we mentioned this earlier, but the average fare across the system. So you take all of the markets that we will be flying in this summer. And you look at those markets compared to the same markets last year and the average fare is up 5% on the total.

So that just tells you that with the new flying, we are chasing significantly higher. I think the fare is more in the $15 to $20 range, higher on the things that we're actually going into. So these are significantly higher-priced markets than we're into today. The second thing is as -- I'll point you back to another thing that we said in the slides is that the revenue pool itself, so the total revenue pool in all of the industry that we're flying year-over-year will be up over 50%.

And so when you're only growing 12% to 15% and the revenue pool is going up 50%, you need a smaller share of a much bigger pie. So it just kind of really derisks the business in a big way. And I think it kind of lowers competitive friction if you think about it. But specifically for the routes, I mean, obviously, we have talked about our 13 bases, and we're going to grow significantly, especially from the ones that we've announced recently. We just announced a bunch of new routes out of San Juan. We announced a bunch of new routes out of Dallas, Fort Worth, which is a base that we just opened last year.

And we've got more announcements in the weeks to come. We've got some this week, some actually next week and then probably a few more announcements later this month. But I think you'll find in general that all of these are markets with considerably higher fares than the marketplace we were in last summer, which we think will be significantly improving our RASM trajectory.

Thanks. Actually, we just went through this yesterday. And in fact, if you look at our March schedule, we're actually already there at the 80% range to out-and-back. We're not scheduled with our crew there. And that's because, for example, the Cincinnati base doesn't open until May, but we actually have the flying already kind of set up as if it was out-and-back. but there will be a lot of people still in the hotels.

So what happens as we flow through the next several months is the schedule doesn't change materially from an out-and-back perspective of the metal, but what happens as we open the basis and we have the crew members based in those cities, they become an out-and-back crew pairing. So you've actually already kind of done the majority of the simplification. It just gets easier every month as you flow through. And we get there by June, with the final opening of San Juan, which we expect. So Cleveland is in March. We've got Chicago in Cincinnati in May, and then we have San Juan, Puerto Rico in June.

Hey I just want to thank everybody for joining us today. We're really excited about the results that we're putting forward in our guide and as well as our expectations as we move through the year and into next year. A lot of great things going on with the company.

So we appreciate everybody joining us today, and we look forward to updating you on our progress and our success next quarter.