Barry Port
The Ensign Group, Inc. (ENSG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

You asked about contribution from acquisitions, obviously the ones that we obviously have some visibility and some deals that we'll do this year and we don't expect much if any contribution from those. The ones that we acquired last year, overall are ahead of schedule largely due to the North American transition, it went extremely well. So, some of our optimism in our guidance comes from the kind of accelerated growth that we saw from those buildings that will continue throughout this year as they mature.

Yes. I mean so the settlement from earlier that we've been disclosing for years now was related to its resolution on a case from 2018 that began as a relator initiated DOJ inquiry. And when the DOJ declined to intervene, that turned into a civil case that just it stretched and stretched over many years. And we brought in a mediator earlier this year to find a suitable resolution and we found one and this saves us from additional defense costs, which was significant time and distraction as well because there's a large breadth to the scope of it and it allows us to move forward without any overpaying of liability.

So we just felt like the cost and the timing of distraction made it important for us to just get that one behind us. That's one and like I said, we have disclosed that over the course of many years in our filings. This new one is unrelated, and while there is some references to some Texas Medicaid issues, it's a fairly general inquiry. This is healthcare, when you are dealing with government payers, there is always the chance that they are going ask questions and do audits. We don't know what's driving it necessarily. We don't have a whole lot of details on it and we have retained really good outside counsel to help represent us on it and get to the bottom of what they are asking for. But yes, it is totally unrelated to the prior settlement.

Thanks, operator, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We appreciate your support, as always, and look forward to an amazing 2024.