Barry McCarthy
Peloton Interactive, Inc. (PTON) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I don't know the answer to the first question, Ron, in which it did (ph). If I did, we could lean into it and try to leverage it. I imagine there's some macro forces at play. There's some seasonality at play. We just don't have enough insight into the cause and effect to give you a thoughtful answer. But the trend seems to be holding -- now for how long and what are the slope of the line be, I don't know the answer to that either wish I did.

As it relates to cash flow in the back half of the year, we -- our forecast is really a tale of two cities. The second half of the year looks quite a bit different than the first half. We don't have very aggressive growth assumptions in my view, but we need to achieve the growth we're forecasting in order to be able to generate the financial performance that we're forecasting.

If we do those things, the metrics in the last quarter of the year, in particular are pretty stellar. It's double-digit revenue growth, it's 40% plus gross margins. It's positive adjusted EBITDA, it's positive free cash flow, we'd all be ecstatic about that kind of performance if we can achieve it. We've been reasonably good at forecasting our financial performance relative to our ability, at least in recent quarters to forecast the growth in subs and Connected Fitness unit sales.

And I think there's more upward bias in the forecast than not, but it's hard to say. And one of the reasons, I think that is because the -- in the -- towards the close of the letter, I make mention of a number of new initiatives that we're working on. And there are a handful, and I'm confident that we will land them and we haven't built any upside into the plan associated with those things now. We haven't landed them. So there's still uncertainty and I can't talk about them until we do. But if we do, it adds even more certainty on the back half of the year.

One more comment, if I could. I'm sorry to be so long winded, Ron. We certainly have had our fair share of unanticipated surprises and not all of them helpful to the business. Seat post being the latest example, and the DISH settlement being another example. I don’t know how many more of those unwelcome surprises there are in our future, but it seems to me we have to be getting closer to the end of that story than we are at the beginning.

Hey, Doug. A couple of thoughts. One very high level. The team, investors have often heard me speak about the importance of talent density that's never more true than it is in this instance, not to create more pressure for our CMO and the marketing team has been already exist for them. They have done just a spectacular job with the relaunch. The creative has been nothing short of amazing and the creative that's going to follow is even more spectacular.

And the early indications are that we're achieving the objectives that they had set for the business, which is just to attract a younger audience. So we've seen a tremendous increase in engagement with Gen Z by way of example. We're capturing people earlier in their fitness journey than we ever had before. So anytime, anywhere, any place message is absolutely landing. And the last objective was to remind people that -- and particularly with the launch of the app, that it's more than just a stationary Bike company. And that message is also finding traction. So lots of reasons to be enthusiastic about where we're going, and the one.

And the last point I want to make is in reference to the two co-branding deals that we've already announced, one, with Liverpool yesterday, University of Michigan. It's very clear from our conversations with those brands, both very highly regarded and other inbound traffic that we've had, which has been significant. The rest of the world regards the Peloton brand very highly and is sought after as a partner and that affords us the opportunity to capitalize on that and you'll be hearing us talk about that ad nauseam (ph) as the year unfolds.

I'll take the first part, and then I'll ask Liz to take the churn part of the question. With respect to growth initiatives, Justin, we had articulated a year and half ago, good, better, best strategy to make the service increasingly accessible to new users at the reintroduction of app was a component of that strategy. You mentioned fitness as a service. We started that a year ago with 50,000 subs, about $45 million in revenue. I think we'll grow it by more than 70% on a year-over-year basis if the current trends continue. Churn was up slightly in the quarter, but I think that was related to the seat post [indiscernible] and it's likely to come back down.

Certified pre-owned has worked extremely well for us. And we're seeing good momentum in that side of the business as well. So enormously excited about those initiatives. In the current year, International will be a growth opportunity for us. It was not this past year because this past year, the objective was to reduce the operating losses of that business, which we did to the tune of about $40 million. But you'll see us leaning aggressively into growth in existing markets like Germany, like Canada, like the UK with new product launches and co-branded partnerships, like, we did with Liverpool by way of example.

And then you'll see us in the U.S. by way growth initiatives, replicating that co-branding experience. Components of those deals will be, I think, have a couple of common characteristics. They will be multiyear, they'll be global, they'll be exclusive. There will be collaboration on content creation and there will be co-marketing and social media components. And if we execute them well, we will benefit enormously from the association of our brand with their brand. And our members will benefit enormously from the content creation that happens as a result of those deals. When all of them combined, I think, will contribute to an acceleration in our growth.

Well, look, we've had to date about slightly in excess of 900,000 people download the app and about 600,000 of those roughly are new to the platform. So we need to continue to lean into creating awareness and driving trial. With respect to the paid app, we're seeing a higher percentage of App+ users than we had anticipated, which is a good thing.

How do we continue to find success with the app? We need to continue to allocate marketing spending towards it. And there's this constant tension, do we spend it on Connected Fitness units or do we allocate to a larger portion of the slices of the pie to spending in the app and see how the need of the business develop as the year unfolds relative to our plan.

Secondly, we need to ensure that the app interface continues to evolve in ways that make it compelling and easy to access and engaging for members, right? So it was originally designed to be an Edge-on to a CFU membership, not as a freestanding app. So we continue to evolve the design and interaction.

Lastly, we need to continue our current investment in personalization, both for the app and on consoles for Connected Fitness unit. So that great content that we create is discoverable by members who would enjoy if they only knew that it exists same challenge that Spotify facing challenge that Netflix-based, the better we are at personalization we're engaging the user experience will be the stickier the user experience will be the lower the churn will be more satisfied, the members will be, the more organic growth we'll have the lower the stack (ph) will have the higher the LTV, so that’s the playbook for success.

Liz, why don't you take that?

Super good question. We just added to the team on the commercial side a Senior Exec from American Express, who led strategic partnerships there, Greg Hybl to help build out our sales capability to drive growth in commercial and corporate wellness. So yes, there'll be some investment. But from a macro basis, it won't be a big impact on margin.

And Tread+ once it's reintroduced in the market as well, so yeah.

Liz, do you want to take the second part of the question?

And I think the question for me was how much risk is, do I perceive in the business related to the upside growth in the second half of the year? And the short answer is, not much. I mean, it's pretty -- look, it's a pretty low bar. And if we can't deliver against that bar, then what the heck are we doing? So -- and at the moment, we're all consumed with the potential upside and that we haven't announced it, we're kind of in process. So at the moment, I'm filled with optimism. Now a bunch of those things fall by the wayside. I'd be saying it in a different tune, but today, I'm feeling pretty good.

Let me do the second part of the question and ask Liz to do the first part. So I'm a little bit familiar with the ad business since I ran it at Spotify. And one of my takeaways, I have two from that experience. One is that advertisers buy reach, which means it requires scale in your business, in order to be a viable player and we don't have that for a long time. And secondly, it is very resource intensive. It requires a lot of engineers, writing a lot of code with a lot of complexity in order to have the measurement and other tools you need and the automation required at scale to properly sell and account for the ad business.

So the only way in which we would be able to participate, I think, is the practical matter would be to outsource it, sort of -- a lot of the Netflix model. And if we did that, I think it would not be the user experience that we would all aspire to have for our members to have. And so, I don't foresee as a practical matter. Any scenario under which in the foreseeable future, we're in the ad base. Liz, I think the question was a version.

I think the 80,000 is the aggregate.

In reverse order in Germany, John, as you may know, they're more culturally accustomed to rental models and which is why the team thought that fitness as a service program would land well. It's really too early to know, although there's enthusiasm about it initially. So we're incredibly optimistic, let's say. And with respect to the college pipeline, I understand where you're coming from the question. I really don't want to answer it. But you could imagine that program like the one that we were fortunate enough to have announced with Michigan could scale across other Division 1 programs in the fall and some time.

And I certainly hope that is true. I think the opportunity to do co-branded bikes on college campuses and elsewhere are enormous. And if we're -- I wonder, if we’re going to be the dog that caught the car because if the thing really takes off, then the supply chain guys are going to all be pulling their hair out, of course, because it’s going to create enormous pressure on them to fulfill demand amongst the rapid fan base. I hope we’re lucky enough to have that problem.

One minor point. I agree with everything Liz said. I think it's we'll know more over time. But I think it's possible that the -- at least the app business will be less seasonal than the Connected Fitness business because the Connected Fitness unit stays in doors when people are outdoors, but the app travels with you wherever you are. And a number of those workouts are designed to be done anywhere, anytime, anyplace. So when you're running, between yoga outside or strengthening the gym or if you’re using Connected Fitness content on – in a gym, by way of example.

Liz is going to vote me off the island if I talk more about the forecast, I'm certain. So I'm going to -- I will answer it, but I'm sure my answer would be unsatisfactory. So I'm referring to the year-over-year growth and -- point one. Point two, whether or not we achieve it depends greatly on how the year, the quarter is preceding it unfold. It's not like we're projecting to linking back to comments was just made about the seasonal cadence of the business. We're not seeing a big change in the seasonal cadence. So it's not like we're suddenly blowing out Q4. So we stand on the shoulders of the quarters that have come before.