Ben Minicucci
Alaska Air Group, Inc. (ALK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Ravi, good morning it's Ben. What I can say is, I've been overwhelmed with the support of our customers. And I think it's just a tribute to our employees who've been so well in gaining loyalty over the years. And they can't wait for us to get back to full service and our anticipation is when we will fill airplanes.

Well, Ravi, as you know, my first priority is to get our MAX 9 fleet back into service and get our schedule back up to 100%. So, that's priority number one. We'll work on the accountability with Boeing. The accountability is essentially on raising the quality standards at the factory as well as making us whole. But that will be secondary. Right now, we're focused on safety and quality and getting our fleet back to a full schedule.

Thank you.

Yes, Scott, thank you. It's Ben. Our view is that these deals are completely different. The JetBlue Spirit was blocked by the judge essentially because it would limit a low-cost competitor. In our case, between Hawaiian and Alaska, these are two very similar business models. The networks are very, very complementary. In fact, when you combine the networks, there's only 12 overlap routes through the combination. So it's very pro consumer, and it's also very pro-competitive customers in Hawaii will have an expansive network to fly to the United States and internationally, our customers on the West Coast will have more options to fly to Hawaii and international. So it's very different from the JetBlue Spirit.

And look, after the deal would become a little bit larger airline to compete stronger against the network carriers and now we have a strong domestic network with a strong international network. So we feel our case is differentiated, and we'll work through the DOJ on that process

Thank you. Thanks, Scott.

And Conor, I'm going to add that, remember, our goal is to reduce losses in Q1 and get to breakeven or better. So that is the long-term objective.

Thanks for your question, Andrew. Well, look, where I stand is flight 1282 should never have happened. It should never have happened at all. So we have a long-standing deep relationship with Boeing. But like I said, it's not acceptable what happened. We're going to hold them accountable and we're going to raise the bar on quality on Boeing.

So we have the relationship. We're having tough candidate conversations. And my goal to CEO of this airline is for every airplane that comes out of that factory it's going to come out with a higher degree of quality and reliability that has been in the past.

So I think it's the virtue of our relationship that we can have these tough conversations, maintain the relationship and continue. We got 231 737s that we've been happy with. And until the sensing, we were happy with the MAX. We have 185 on order that are coming to us. We believe with the network configuration we had, this is, of course, ex-Hawaiian. The network configuration we have, the Boeing airplane is 737 is well-suited for our network. So that is the long-term plan, but we're going to hold Boeings feet to the fire to make sure that we get good airplanes out of that factory.

Thanks, Andrew.

Helane. Good morning, it's Ben. Like we said before, we have customers who love our company. They trust us. They know we put safety and reliability first. There's no doubt that the MAX 9 has a lot of attention, and people are looking what they're flying. But our goal right now as we reenter the MAX 9 just to give our employees, particularly our crews, the confidence that Alaska has done everything it can to put our MAX 9 safely and an airworthy condition back in service and to communicate with our guests. And if they have any concerns to reach out directly to us, to our crews, to assure them that the aircraft are on are safe. And we won't put any, of course, an aircraft back in service unsafe. But I think at first, people will have some questions, some anxiety, just like they did two years ago or when the -- after all the deep certification process the aircraft went through, but I believe over time, the confidence will get back into this airplane.

Well, Helane, I'm glad you asked the question because I want to set the record straight on this. And I'll probably take a little bit of time and you're making me put on my old operations and maintenance and engineering hat back on, which I'm glad I love putting it back on.

So, I'm going to say it right from the start, the issues were completely unrelated. And I'll explain why here if you give me some leeway. What we had was a pressure controller issue. And the pressure controller has three modes of operation. It's got an automatic mode, it's got an alternate mode, and it's got a manual mode. What failed, but I liked that you're talking about that went on was the automatic mode switching to alternate mode. And that's perfectly in line with the pressure controller. It has one primary and two backups.

So, the pressurization was never an issue on the airplane. The reason we restricted it from going over water, and this is stuff when I was back in maintenance is we've taken an abundance of caution. We're saying, look, we have other airplanes that we can send over water. This one, the light went on. It's still working perfectly well. It's legal to send over water. We'll be a little more cautious. We'll keep it over land, so we can watch it and keep it between maintenance bases.

So, I just want to be totally clear. These two issues were totally unit. This was an issue with the door plug. We got a faulty door plug from Boeing, totally unrelated to the light or to the pressurization issues.

Okay. Thanks. All right. my pleasure.

Thanks, Catie.

And Mike, I just want to shine a little more of a light on your question. Again, we had a 7.5% pre-tax margin close to United and Delta, again, without the international tailwinds with the fuel headwinds and yet our margin was as high as it was, simply because of your question, because of our premium offering.

Our business model competes with the network carriers. We are differentiated domestically with our competitors. Our airplanes are 100% fully configured in premium, again, with our loyalty program, with the way the business miles stood up with lounges. So it is a reason why we see success even when there's shift between domestic and international. And again, we'll have more success with the Hawaiian acquisition. So I just wanted to shine a bit more of a light on that.

Thanks Mike.

Thank you.

We're building the piping this year. That's what you're saying?

Thanks for joining us on our call. Thank you so much. We will keep you updated on our progress with the 9 MAX and thank you so much, and talk to you next time.