Ben Cowart
Vertex Energy, Inc. (VTNR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, good morning, Eric.

Yes. Donovan, it’s Ben. The change in our loan terms with the lending group included an additional $25 million. It is subject to their approval. The club of lenders have been very supportive of the business, obviously, from the purchase of the refinery and all the work and investments that we’ve made. So, we do have that as a opportunity to go back to our lenders for additional liquidity. Our focus, obviously, is on the BofA process that really addresses liquidity on a much bigger picture. So, that’s the state of the relationship with the lender. So, I think that’s good. And we stay in close contact with them and they’re up to speed on the business as we go forward.

Thank you.

Yes. So, the first four contracts that we were able to retender to the market were predominantly jet that came up this quarter, it rolls over April 1st to a new contract. So, we took that to market fourth quarter last year and been very, very pleased with the results. It’s a substantial netback improvement over our previous off-take agreement with a equally creditworthy and reliable counterparty that we are excited to be doing business with, that we believe fully reflects the value of the product that we are producing because there was a quality spread that we weren’t capturing previously, we do now. And the next opportunity for that is just marching through the products, diesel and gasoline. We have a notice period approaching and then we – those are open for unbranded products, April, next year. We have got some time to work on that. Our off-take partner has been very supportive. It’s a good relationship. It’s worked very, very well operationally. But we want to make sure that from the pricing standpoint and we are in a fair position to get full market value for our products, which we are now in a position to do. We saw the results in jet and we look forward to the results on diesel and gasoline.

Yes. So, just a little bit about on the strategy, as you know, we hedged about 36% of our gasoline, Chris. That was again, kind of getting our programs in place, getting back into a routine of taking advantage of attractive cracks when they presented themselves on the forward curves. We felt like that gasoline spread and/or late summer that carried through the end of the year was unusual. We also had, so we took advantage of that. That was a very favorable outcome on those hedges. Obviously, we wish we would hedge more, but on the other hand, you always wish you would lose money on the hedges, because you are making more money on the product, right. So – but that turned out to be a good position. We took the same mindset for first quarter on diesel, where we saw very strong strengthening in the crack spread for first quarter late in the fourth quarter, well above our margin targets. So, we took advantage of that for about half of our production. And again, those have been, we feel comfortable on those hedges. I think they are – the market held up the whole time surprisingly. So, in this case turns out they weren’t really necessary, but we still believe it’s a prudent approach when you see cracks present themselves on certainly the front quarter that they are well above what you are planning for in terms of budget. So, that’s the approach. I would say that, so as we look at this quarter and we look at second quarter and third quarter, as James mentioned, we are positioning the plant to gear up for driving season, make sure we can run max rates and capture. We expect to be healthy margins for the summer. So, we won’t – at that point, my expectation is that this, at this date that we would not hedge second quarter and third quarter of gasoline or diesel. The forward curves aren’t telling us to do that at this time. But I would expect in third quarter or really throughout the summer if we see the gasoline cracks present themselves as very attractive in the fourth quarter, we will plan to take advantage of that at that time for a material portion of our fourth quarter production. So, if you think about it seasonally, that’s kind of how we are looking at it. If gas is strong going in the winter and we want to take advantage of it, and if diesel’s unusually strong going into the summer where we normally see a bit of a drop off, not nearly as seasonal as gasoline, but still there. We would look at that for first quarter position.

At least two-thirds of that is the maintenance section. So, that’s catalyst change and doing the work inside the reformer.

Yes. For Phase 2, the balance is about $30 million.

In future quarters.

From an inventory perspective, which as you guys know is the biggest driver of our working capital. I would say, we are in a pretty good spot. The inventory has come down during the fourth quarter. So, going forward, we don’t see a huge build or a large build in inventory. But I would say, your working capital is going to remain fairly flat. Your big driver draw on cash is going to be CapEx.

Thank you.

Yes. Good question and fair question, Amit. But let me let me start by saying that this BofA process started probably 10 months ago because we know that the RD investment was sizable for the company and more on the development front. So, starting new business from nothing and bringing it to life like the team has done is nothing short of undertaken. As I have said in my comments, we have spent $260 million at the end of the fourth quarter in new cash. So, we don’t have that much in long-term debt. So, that really speaks to the health of the crude side of the business and what it’s brought to the table in contribution. The BofA process is designed to bring the liquidity back to the balance sheet for the investments that we have made on the RD side, And that that process was focused, obviously we knew as we went to the market, it would open up other conversations and that’s certainly what’s taking place. And we are tendering those conversations as we speak. So, the process could not have been executed better by BofA. I think they have done an amazing job. We have got really good people, really strong companies at the table that’s interested in the work that we are doing both around the renewables long-term, because I think everyone sees the target being the 2025 renewables business. We are kind of at the end of a policy cycle both at a RFS and Federal level and also at a California CFS level. And so we have got some insight for ‘25 around our A, which is some new frontline opportunity as well as LCFS, we got some insight. We just haven’t yet seen the new RVOs that we hope to see from the RINs side of the business. So, with all of that in mind, the interest in RD is very focused in that direction and also in SAF, SAF seems to be the next leg of this industry and so we have got a great platform to continue evolving the renewable business in that direct. Second, is the broader interest in the asset. So, we have got some really interesting infrastructure capacity opportunities, property scale and so we have entertained some non-conforming conversations that take a little bit more time to check out. And so we have had management presentations. We have had site visits. We have had initial indication of values. And we are moving towards some firm offers to partner with the company. So, that’s the best update I can provide and kind of where we are at. As you said, liquidity is important in the current RD market. So, we are very measured in managing our cash. We have got a very good cash focused system that we are exercising weekly. And so we are going to continue with a diligent preservation of cash, focus on margin and reducing our costs. And like Doug said, we have got a lot of things out of our way today and we have got the people in place and they are doing a really good job of fine tuning all fronts of the business.

Thank you, Amit.

Good morning Brian.

Yes. I mean as we look at the forward curves right now, Brian, and then based on the cracks that Doug laid out, yes, I would say we are positive at the moment.

That’s a good question. It’s about the improvement varies by feed. But it’s 20% plus improvement over the defaults, in some cases, better than that. So, it’s helpful, but I would say that while it’s – yes, it’s probably – that probably gets you pretty close to a breakeven margin with those. But I would say that in general, as fast as RINs have continued to decline, I mean we have lost another $0.40 of RIN just this quarter, so almost $0.70 a gallon since January down, right. So and we lost – who was it, James, over $1 a gallon in the fourth quarter on RINS. So, the LCFS has been depressed, and that’s certainly a factor and these CI values will help us recover a little bit more value out of that even at these levels for sure. But the impact of that is muted because LCFS is so depressed anyway, right. So, you get a little bit higher value or more credit generation, but the credits are still worth a lot less than they were a year ago, as an example. But the real killer for RD margins right now is just the RIN performance. On D4 RINs, we were down almost – well, they are 50% off where they were between January and February. And some of that move was very violent in just a week. So, when we are trying to forecast run rates and plan our volumes against the available margin, it’s an extremely volatile next year when you add RIN moves of that magnitude within a week. So, that’s what we are facing with. So, I think the industry – I think we and the industry frankly need feeds to recalibrate to the current margins picture, pretty good amount from where they are. They have come down a good bit from last fall, obviously, but there is more to give there or else RD margins are going to be very tough for everybody.

Brian, I think that’s a good question. And the answer is yes, I mean the assets that we have had their own life prior to the investment. The investments that we have made are robust improvements and can be recaptured in a different way long-term. And so we always have options, and we constantly review those options as we look at these current market conditions.

Thank you, Brian.

Yes, operator and thank you everyone for joining the call today. We appreciate your interest in the business and we look forward to keeping you informed as we complete this quarter and come back with new information on the progress we are making here with the business. Thank you.