Ben Gliklich
Element Solutions Inc (ESI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Josh.

Sure. So the first half of 2024 assumes slight sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2 and then at the low end of our guidance range, it's sort of normal seasonality, an uptick in Q3 and a slight downtick in Q4, and at the high end of the guidance range, it's sort of a more significant ramp in the electronics business in the back half. Our industrial and specialty business, from an end market perspective, is only up modestly, with more growth coming from customer wins and margin expansion, which we see carrying over from the back half of the year. There's a case to be made where the electronics industry really ramps significantly and in that case, there's upside to our guide. What we've seen in the first quarter-to-date has been quite positive from an electronics perspective. That market has accelerated to some extent sequentially, but it's too early to call the back half, hence our guide.

Yes, that's an opportunity that's not really factored into our guidance, which is thinking about unit levels last year being better than demand for things like circuitry materials because of the inventory clearance. And so there is an opportunity insofar as we're lapping that for incremental volume growth over the unit growth. It's really early to have judgment on that. Right? We're sitting here in the middle of February.

We have the Lunar New Year impact in Asia, which really does swing things a bit in the beginning of the year. It's fully falling in February, and so sometimes you see a build in advance of Lunar New Year. What I would say is that January was a very strong month, and we'll have a better sense for the first quarter once we're out of February. We feel confident in the guide for the first quarter and there might be some room for outperformance based on how February falls.

Yes. So the I&S business should grow the top line and EBITDA in 2024 more modestly than the electronics business, but we do expect it to grow. The end markets are not going to be as strong as the electronics business, but we do have some customer wins ramping and margins should continue to -- should be stronger, I would say, particularly in the first half, as we lap a period of higher input costs and higher logistics.

Yes. So cash flow was quite strong in 2023, and there's room for that to grow in 2024. Based on our guide, without incremental capital allocation, we'll be inside of 3 by the end of the year. And historically, we've been opportunistic, and that should continue to be the case. We will have capacity for reasonable capital allocation over the course of 2024, and we'll see what the market serves up to us. We feel like we also have the bandwidth for integration now that we've integrated Coventya, we've integrated the ViaForm, transaction and Kuprion is off and running. We'll see what opportunities avail themselves.

Thanks Duffy.

Yes, so if you look at our assembly business in 2023, it significantly outperformed our circuitry and semiconductor businesses, and that was largely driven by strength in automotive. So not only are we seeing uplift in content, but we're seeing innovation that our business is bringing to bear to that market and high reliability alloys that's driving share and outperformance even in the auto markets. Again, it depends on the magnitude of automotive production declines to answer that question accurately, but we are seeing a low-single digit uplift in content per unit each year. That's even greater as electric vehicle penetration increases and our performance in power electronics has been outstanding and that's a segment of the market and technology that has been growing really, really nicely and will continue to for several years to come.

Sure. Thank you. So over the past several years, that the going in assumptions for market performance have been way off relative to the back half performance that was realized and so we have to draw a line based on industry forecasts and that's how we've formulated our guide. There is room for outperformance from an end market perspective as we think about upsides and downsides. Our performance, again organic on a like-for-like basis in the mid-teens from an EBITDA growth perspective, is quite a ways higher than market forecast. And so there is a benefit from margin improvement that we've seen carrying over outperformance relative to end markets on the top line and mix where new technologies that we're introducing into the business are gaining share. We've also held price and the benefit of that execution is accruing to shareholders in the guide.

Sure. So our power electronics business provides really differentiated material used in the assembly of power semiconductors and then power inverters. Very strong market position within certain OEMs that are Pure EVs. The opportunity there is for growth in those OEMs and also penetration of, let's call them OEMs that have longer cycle times to develop new platforms. And so we are not on every OEM's electric vehicle platforms, and there's no reason that this material shouldn't be on all of the high performing electric vehicles in the market. We've been investing in applications, labs, not just in the west, but we opened one in Shanghai last year. And we've had great traction with the Chinese electric vehicle OEMs. There's a lot of market opportunity for this, both as EV units grow and as our penetration of EV OEMs expands. It's an exciting technology for us.

Thanks, Jon.

Sure. The assembly business had a much stronger 2023 than the circuit board and semiconductor businesses. It's driven by greater concentration in the automotive market, which was healthier than the smartphone market, and call it higher end consumer electronics markets. It's driven by innovation, which has been driving share both in terms of next generation phases with higher performance attributes.

We've introduced some new alloys that are higher reliability than what had previously been in the market, which have really interesting applications, not just in automotive, but also in infrastructure markets. And then our power electronics business sits, a portion of it sits within the assembly business, and that's been very strong. So there's innovation, market share gain and end market dynamics that are supporting that outperformance in the assembly business.

Thank you, Chris. So Kuprion is really exciting. Our commercial traction is greater than we expected it would be, and our progress towards commercialization is faster than we expected it would be. We expect there to be some revenue contribution in the back half of this year and EBITDA contribution in 2025, probably a bit earlier than we thought it would be when we sort of embarked on this journey. The applications for Kuprion span our electronics business. So originally we thought it would be primarily a dye attached [ph] material, which is in semiconductor assembly and advanced packaging.

We're finding that it can also be a circuit board material used to metalize next generation IC substrates. In fact, that's where more of our traction has been; because the qualification cycles are shorter there than in the semiconductor market. So the breadth of applications is wider, the customer engagement is better, and it's on track to be a pretty significant contributor in the medium term here.

Thank you.

Thanks, David. So the business in China had a tough year in 2023. It was down in the double digits from a percentage perspective. That was driven partially by the electronics market, where there is quite a bit of business in the circuit board market in particular, and also in the industrial market, where the industrial economy was soft.

As we look to next year with the electronics market ramping, we see growth in China in 2024. The industrial business we expect to be, I'd call it modestly better, not a great deal better. The circuit board market is very strong in China and will remain so. There aren't trade restrictions on the circuit board market and we remain a significant participant in that market. And we do see growth, as we said, we see growth from the Chinese OEMs in electric vehicles. As I mentioned earlier, we opened an applications lab for power electronics there. We see a lot of opportunity associated with that.

And even in our industrial surface treatment business, we've been investing in that market. Our share there is lower than it is outside of China, and we see a big opportunity for share gain and are getting traction supporting customers with equipment packages and other innovations, particularly with an environmental lens on them, because of the scrutiny on environmental discharges in that market. So we do see it as a growth market for us coming off of a pretty soft year. There's a compelling case for several years of growth from here, even in a reasonably tepid industrial economy in China should that play out.

Thank you, David.

Thank you, Sarah, and thank you, everybody for joining. We look forward to seeing many of you in the days and weeks to come. Have a great day.
