Bernard Zovighian
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (EW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Larry. I hope you are doing well. Let me start and then I will ask Daveen to add some color here. So, first, the way we are thinking about this one is like we did in TAVR, we want to make sure that we are going to introduce this very novel therapy, having in mind, building foundation for long-term expansion. So, we're going to be focusing on physician training, generating more evidence, excellent patient outcome, making sure we have coverage, payment, reimbursement, established in the US and in Europe. So, we are having here a long-term view, the same way we did in TAVR in last 20 years.

But again, Daveen, I'm sure you want to share some of your plan.

Thank you, Daveen. So, what you can see, Larry, here, we have a long-term view on this one. We want to shape the space in a way that we like, in a way that everybody is going to be very proud of, like we did for TAVR.

Thank you, Robbie. So let me start on your earlier comment about a little slower than expected in the past years. And then, Daveen can talk about a bottleneck in the system. So, if you think about it, since the beginning, since six years ago, when we put together this vision, we did study this patient population, mitral and tricuspid, and we knew that they were very complex and diverse. And we knew from the beginning that one device, one therapy, a repair technology only will not be sufficient. Repair technology, and we are very pleased about PASCAL, but can only treat some -- a small proportion of patients. So it is why we have this vision of having a portfolio. So right now, what we have is this portfolio on the tricuspid side, we are on track to get also a mitral replacement. And what we are going to see, what we are going to see altogether is an acceleration. Clinicians will be able to treat more patients. So, the dynamic in the next 10 years is going to be very different than the dynamic in the last 10 years. But again, Daveen...

In addition, Robbie, what I like is our commitment to -- after 20 years of TAVR, we are still super committed to bring big evidence. Look at these two trials, PROGRESS and EARLY TAVR, this is a potential, for sure, to learn more, but also to expand indication to change the guidelines. So, as a leader in the space, for sure, we like it, we are committed. But I believe that in the next 10 years, here in TAVR, we are going to see some very exciting things happening.

Go ahead?

Yeah. And in addition, as me being in my first year as CEO, I'd like to reflect a little bit about where we are as a company. And when I think about valve, making heart valve, it is not easy. Given the nature of patient needs, this is not luck. We are committed and focused for more than 60 years and we bring experience, a very deep knowledge. What we have seen, even in the past few years, many platforms, many companies coming in and leaving the market after a year, two years or three years. So, we are leading the space with a very significant long-term commitment, more than 2,000 engineers, R&D, R&D specialists. We are proud of our uninterrupted leadership in the space. And we are going to continue investing. So, look, for sure, we take all the competitors very seriously, but we are very confident about our leadership, about our technologies, and about our evidence.

Yeah. Thank you, Daveen. Well said. And we are very excited. Think about TAVR, 20 years later, we are still generating evidence. We are still innovating with Ultra RESILIA X4. We still believe that there is a way for TAVR to grow healthy double digit in the many years to come globally. So here, for TMTT EVOQUE, it's probably thinking the same. It is not the next five years, it's like 10 or 20 years here that we are thinking of.

What's fair to say though is, in the past few years, we have done many pilots, many initiatives. We have extracted so many learnings. What we are doing right now is scaling. We are scaling and spending. We are spending resources in Q4 last year, this year, and the next few years. So, you are going to see more and more because we believe there are so many patients in need not receiving a treatment.

So, in closing, I am very proud about what we did last year. 2023 was a great year. Strong performance across our four product groups globally. When I think about this year 2024, I'm super excited. We are going to have multiple breakthrough technologies, clinical trial in TAVR, TMTT and surgical. Here, we have a chance. The same way we did it in TAVR 20 years ago to shape the TMTT space with EVOQUE and providing basically a toolbox to physician to treat so many patients. So, that's a very unique opportunity that we are taking very seriously. The speed of critical care, we are executing on this one also in 2024. So I'm super confident that this year is going to be a super exciting year and we are going to be very well positioned to accelerate growth in 2025 and beyond.

So with that, thanks for your continued interest in Edwards. Scott, Mark and I welcome any additional questions by telephone. Thank you, everyone.