Bertrand Loy
Entegris, Inc. (ENTG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Obviously, we were very pleased with the way we finished 2023. All three divisions performed very well. MC and AMH were in-line or slightly above forecast in Q4. And MS had a very strong finish. Remember that the MS division has the most exposure to memory, which was a headwind, was earlier in the year. But of course, converted into a tailwind as the memory segment started to recover late 2023.

Another factor impacting the MS performance in Q4 was the existence of some pull-ins, customer pull-in, customers trying to get will take advantage of rebates available to them during calendar 2023. But overall very strong finish to what was a very good year for Entegris.

To put that in context, remember that we were very busy in 2023. We completed the acquisition of CMC Materials, leading a very aggressive integration project, completing this integration within 13 months post-close. As part of this integration, we successfully divested three large businesses generating $1.3 billion of proceeds into process, which we applied to our debt as we had promised to do.

We also managed very effectively the slow industry environment, while maintaining strong investments into our future. As you saw, we increased R&D spending in 2023, we largely completed the KSP investment in Taiwan, and we initiated a new investment in Colorado. And as you know, all of those significant projects can be the source of a lot of distraction, a lot of de-focus in the organization, and that was not the case. We outperformed the industry by 6 points. We also delivered very healthy levels of EBITDA in 2023 and 27%, which is in-line with our commitments.

So, we are exiting 2023 with a very strong platform that obviously we expect to build upon as we presented today. So it bodes well for 2024 and for the years to come.

Right. So, thank you for asking that follow-on question. I mean obviously if the MS division was the star of our Q4 results, the star of the full-year 2023 was our MC division. MC benefited from a strong backlog, getting into 2023, but that's really not the full story. The demand for products and solutions continue to be very strong through the year and I want to maybe highlight a few of them.

Our gas purification system, for example, continues to perform at very elevated level. As a matter of fact, our Q4 revenue for gas purification systems was at a record level. And that is a function of steady fab construction activity and the fact that those systems become mostly industry standards now for several years.

The other part of the Microcontamination division that went -- that performed really strongly in 2023 was the liquid filtration platform. You heard me. The quest for materials purity is unabated in this industry. Our customers are really trying to chase higher yields and long-term reliability of their devices. And to do that they need to continue to increase the purity requirements chasing ever smaller contaminants and making the permissible concentration levels more stringent.

So these forces were at-work in 2023. And that's the reason why MC essentially outperformed the industry by close to 16 points, so a massive outperformance level in 2023. And that's a trend that we expect to continue going forward. And that's actually the basis for the level of outperformance we expect to see for the next two to three years, an outperforming level of five to seven points as I presented earlier.

So remember that 2024 will be a recovery year for the industry. And by that I mean that different segments of the industry will be recovering at different times and at different rates. The recovery will be led by advanced logic and DRAM, 3D NAND is expected to stay relatively muted especially early in the year. And of course mainstream fabs have just entered the downturn just a few months ago. And we expect fairly significant wafer start reductions and utilization rates compression, especially in the first quarter of this year. So that's the lay of the land. And that's what we took into account when quantifying our expectations for the industry.

So we expect MSI, in that context, to be up about 5%. And here again, I'm talking about 2024 compared to 2023. And we expect the industry CapEx to be essentially flat. And here again, remember that I'm talking about the total industry CapEx, not just WFE. So if you blend those two numbers, you get to that 4% industry growth in 2024.

Well, the drivers are essentially the drivers we called out in the presentation, right? We expect to continue to benefit from greater Entegris content per wafer. We expect some node transitions in 3D NAND in particular in 2024. And we also expect a number of advanced logic manufacturers to start getting ready for significant node transitions late in the year and preparing for 2025. So all of that will contribute to that four to five points of outperformance in 2024.

Maybe I can start with the performance, Linda, and then you can add-on the margin. So if you think about AMH, as we have mentioned multiple times, AMH had actually a very significant backlog entering 2024. And that really help them sustained elevated revenue levels in the first-half of the year. That backlog disappeared in Q3 of 2023, and that's really the impact that you're seeing in Q4 of 2023. Going-forward, we would expect AMH to steadily recover through the year in 2024.

Okay. So, we're very pleased with the way the combination with CMC Materials is shaping out. I talked about a few different metrics, but more importantly, the way the two teams have come together is extremely gratifying. And I'm also very, very pleased with the quality of the customer engagements that we've seen in the last 18 months.

So all of that contributed to actively seeking new opportunities, different ways to combine and co-optimize solutions across our various platforms, ways to optimize our post-CMP cleaning chemistries based on the better understanding of the slurry blend and mix, ways of optimizing our slurry filtration platform based on the better understanding of the slurry. So all of that has been taking place as you would expect.

You should know that as a matter of fact, we had a compensable goals last year looking at the opportunity pipeline and the funnel. And you should know that actually we not only met that particular objective, but we far exceeded that objective. And that is what is giving us confidence when we talk about the potential of the MS platform going-forward. And this is why actually, we are committed to outperforming the market by four to six points in MS for the years to come.

Yes, multiple different ways to actually think about that number and why the number has been growing over time. And the first one is the complexity of the challenges our customers are inviting us to collaborate on is, as I mentioned, growing. You should also know that because of that we are invited to collaborate with our customers earlier in their technology process development cycle. So all of that contributes to that greater spend. And then there's just the number of new opportunities ahead of us.

The fact that we expect to Entegris content per wafer to continue to grow is just indicative of the fact that our customers see the value that Entegris can provide, see the value of that end-to-end solution capability that we are marketing. They understand that it's going to be key to not only device performance, but also time to yield, and ultimately time to node transition, all of which are extremely important for our customers.

But to do that and to really realize the opportunities ahead of us, we have to be willing to invest in R&D. And that's something that we did in the current downturn in 2023. And that's the level of investment that we are committed to maintaining an increase for the years to come.

Yes. So, first, let's start with the first-quarter, right. I mean, we are guiding sequentially down 4%, which is in line with normal seasonal cycles. And again, a reflection of the fact that many of our customers in advanced logic and of course in mainstream logic have indicated a sequential compression in fab utilization. From thereon we expect actually a steady sequential increase in revenue as again, we expect growth in advanced logic. We expect further recovery in-memory. And we expect also, you know, more stable conditions at some point in the year from our mainstream customers.

Maybe I can take the first part. Linda. If you want, maybe elaborate a little bit on the margin impact. But let me just say that we are very pleased with the progress we have made in the construction phase of our KSP investment. Today, we have about 200 employees on site. Our internal qualifications are progressing rapidly and progressing well.

And in a few cases, customer qualifications have already started. So, we expect revenue to be generated out of that facility in the second half of the year. I mean, we are already taking some orders, customer orders, but they are actually very small right now. We would expect the level of revenue from the KSP facility to reach somewhere between $40 million to $50 million for the year in 2024.

So during the presentation we highlighted a number of new opportunities. Gate all-around being one of them. And this is just another flavor of those 3D architectures that we expect to proliferate in the industry in the years to come. So, specifically around the gate all-around, we expect to see opportunities around new precursor materials, slurries and other polishing solutions as well as etching chemistries and solutions for ion implant as well.

So we believe that we are in the very early innings of the adoption of that particular architecture. And as you saw on the analysis in terms of wafer content, we expect that to be a big driver for the increase. We expect to see from 5 nanometer all the way to 1.4 nanometer in advanced logic.

Yes. So this is a great area of focus for the company. We mentioned that today, it is still a fairly small part of our business. Think about revenue levels in the $40 million to $50 million range on an annual basis. But that business did double from 2022 to 2023, and we expect that business to continue to do extremely well.

And here I'm talking really about slurries. But remember that there are a lot of other opportunities for us around power electronics. So beyond slurries, we have great opportunity for the bad solutions that really work hand-in-glove with the slurries that we are providing our customers in Power Electronics. There are also great opportunities in terms of gas purification systems and in terms of post-CMP clean. So, I think this is a market segment that is emerging, that is growing very fast, and an area where we are very focused.

So, first of all, with the technology road maps becoming more challenging with our customers in fact trying to accelerate the transition to new process technology, opportunity is really abound for Entegris. So, the level of engagement has increased as they see Entegris as a very unique partner, and frankly, in many cases an indispensable partner for them to achieve new levels of device performance, acceptable yields, and again compress time to solution.

So as I've mentioned, we are investing more in R&D. We are more specifically investing a lot in locked in regional tech centers. We already have a very significant investment in Taiwan. We announced late 2023 a similar investment in Korea in order to again engage more effectively locally with all of the technology leaders in this space.

Those local investments in tech centers are in fact a great differentiator. Very few, if any of our competitors really provide those capabilities and those options for our customers. And I think it really reinforces the quality of the customer interaction. It also speeds up the cycles of learning both for our customers as well as us for Entegris. So, we are very focused on continuing to improve the quality of this very symbiotic relation that we have developed with our customers for many years now.

Yes. So, as you remember, we made a big announcement last year around an investment in a new facility in Colorado. Multiple phases to this investment. Phase 1 is the one that we initiated last year. Phase 1 is about $280 million. And we believe that this project is very much in-line with the overall objectives of the U.S. CHIPS Act, which as you know, is trying to promote the development of a domestic supply chain or resilient domestic supply chain and derisk supply chain risks for the many new fabs that are expected to be built here in the U.S. So we've been in dialogue, active dialogue with the CHIPS program office. We believe that those discussions have been very constructive and very positive. And we would update you when we have more specifics to share.

Yes. We have been talking a lot about molybdenum as an example of the new class of precursor materials that we expect the industry to turn to as they look for thinner film materials ways similar or better electrical performance. We expect those materials to be first introduced in the 3D NAND architectures and then at some point in advanced logic as well.

So we have been spending a lot of time positioning our solution offering with the leading 3D NAND players. Remember that we believe that we have very unique capabilities around those solid precursors, not just the ability to provide the material but also to provide an industry-leading delivery system that can very effectively delivered the material onto the wafer at very attractive total cost of ownership.

So, we believe that the 3D NAND players will likely adopt molybdenum whether they adopt this new molecule at 200 layers or we have to wait until 300 layers remains a question mark. But I think we are very, very close. And I think our confidence level has increased significantly in the last several years.

So, again, this is exciting. This is one of the reasons why you see the increase in SAM in terms of Entegris content per wafer opportunity in 3D NAND essentially doubled from what it is today at 176 layers and when we think about what it could be tomorrow at 500 layers.

Yes. I mean the story remains the same, and you can actually see evidence of that in the level of outperformance we expect to see in our Microcontamination division. The only reason we have not normalized that opportunity on a per-wafer basis is simply that it's just getting harder to do because the opportunity for us in terms of advanced filtration usage, it's not just in the fab environment, which is something that we can track fairly precisely. But that opportunity is really expanding upstream in the supply lines. And that gets actually a lot harder to track and to link precisely to a particular device architectures.

As you know in order to achieve atomic levels of purity, fab customers are increasingly asking their bulk chemical manufacturers to achieve significantly higher levels of purity. And as a result of that, we are seeing greater introduction of new points of filtration upstream in the supply lines, those new points of filtrations are using more advanced filters. And the frequency of change-out are also increasing. So all of these are the fundamental drivers for our Microcontamination business. So nothing has changed. It's just hard for us to pin that to a particular technology node and to normalize that wafer number.

Look, I think we are blessed at Entegris with a very exciting platform, a platform that provides a lot of optionality. I mean, obviously, the organic growth story is very compelling. But on top of that, I think that we can certainly create additional, long term shareholder value by very selectively go after M&A targets. This is what we've done in the past 10 years. This is what you should expect us to continue to do. And we have demonstrated that you know we are really good integrator of businesses. And I think what I was mentioning earlier around how well the integration of CMC has gone, it's probably the latest proof point to that statement.

Having said all of that, I will go back to what Linda said our first order of priority right now is to bring the debt down. So expect us to do that and to be focused on that. But keep in mind that there are a lot of options available to us to deploy our capital and to create additional value for our shareholders going forward.