Bill Burns
Zebra Technologies Corporation (ZBRA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Tommy, I think that we've clearly seen that retail IT budgets have been under pressure and the retailers overall certainly sweating assets, but also this idea of customers absorbing capacity, not just in e-commerce but also in transportation logistics as well. And they built out significant capacity during the pandemic, believing that ultimately the growth trajectory would continue off those rates.

And now, we've seen kind of a reset in both e-commerce continuing to grow, obviously, but -- and parcel delivery both kind of resetting to pre-pandemic levels and growing from there. So we've seen some positive signs in the e-commerce side where some of that capacity has been used off and that we're beginning to see orders for from those e-commerce providers that need and have continued demand now.

So we're seeing that coming to an end on some of the e-commerce providers. We're seeing across transportation logistics, still challenge in volumes of parcel delivery. And we're seeing the T&L providers really taking this as an opportunity to kind of restructure their businesses and think about how to be more effective and more efficient in their delivery mechanisms.

We saw the same in e-commerce over the last year plus, but I think we're coming through it in e-commerce. Still P&L challenge there is we're continuing to see is the results in the -- around parcels being still remain challenged. So I would say, coming to an e-commerce but still challenging in the build-out across e-commerce -- around, sorry, trends.

Yes, Joe, I'd say that probably if you look back to January, we literally have met with thousands of our customers and partners across our channel partner summit in Asia Pacific and than in Europe and then North America, Latin America and then with the National Retail Federation show.

And it's clear that our solutions are essential to what our customers are doing in their business every day and they're grateful to have gone honestly, Zebra is a strong partner along with them. And they're excited about the innovation that we're bringing to market and they're optimistic. So our partners and our customers are optimistic. They're happy to put 2023 behind them, quite honestly. And there's optimism for 2024, especially in second half year.

However, I would say that from our perspective, and it's prudent to remain cautious and that we haven't seen a broader recovery. We've really seen some kind of green shoots here in the year-end of year-end spending across retail, mostly in North America. And we'd rather -- we'd like to see first some orders, projects, deployments really move forward before we get ahead of ourselves kind of for the full year.

So, I think optimism, happy to put '23 behind us. I think we feel good about modest increases through the year as demand progresses throughout the year, but we'd like to get a little more confidence by having more orders, more projects, more deployments across our end customers move forward. And we think it's prudent and reflect in our guide to be a bit conservative at the moment.

No, Keith, I think that we would see that the current sales declines are due to a cyclical bottom, really accentuated by the pandemic overall and that our long-term conviction and the strong business fundamentals really remain unchanged.

And we think we're well positioned to be -- continue to be the market leader and continue to take share as our markets recover overall. The secular trends really to digitize and automate environments within our customer operations really remain unchanged. They were intact before the pandemic, and they remain intact today.

And I think that our strong competitive position we have in the marketplace, especially in our core, the exciting opportunities we have in our adjacent and expansion areas. And quite honestly, we're excited about the future. So despite the near-term headwinds, we don't see a -- see that changing. We see the 5% to 7% through cycle what we're committed to and -- remains intact.

Yes. I think that we'd say software and service is clearly recurring revenue, right? Similar -- you saw a similar comment we had on supplies, right, which we've talked about as being semi-recurring, right? It's like a recurring business. So clearly, services and software outperformed our broader product portfolio overall.

But I say that customers today continuing to strong attach rates on our mobile devices. Also, we're seeing -- this is the negative side of some of the services growth is really people extending service contracts at higher prices, right, that ultimately, we're working closely with them to get their refreshes done within their environment.

So that's a target for us starting in kind of second half of '23 and into '24 is really working closely with those customers that are looking to extend service agreements and sweat assets is to get them to move ahead with new technologies and new advantages of our hardware, but that's helping software a bit -- I'm sorry, services a bit in the short term.

From a software perspective, we're seeing really a compelling value proposition to our customers around what we really brought together is our work cloud software, which is bringing the multiple organic and acquisition assets together to really address the needs that a retail associate. And we talk about that of this modern store framework as an engaged associate.

So think of it as communication collaboration, think of it as task management workforce management, demand planning, so marrying that all together into a single application or instance for our customers and be able to really enhance the productivity of the retail worker and that's resonating well with our customers.

We had our trade show on our internal event with our user group of our software customers in the second half of the year and rolled out really what we're doing around work cloud and the future of that and they're pretty excited about it. I know, Nate, do you want to add -- I mean the other thing we're focused on is really profitability around those areas and not growing top line, but also profitability in our software business as we bring those together.

Rob. So a couple of things kind of weaved into that. I would say, first, that our sales teams are working and our partners closely with those customers that we have identified that are -- have the devices in there in use longer than normal and working closely with them to understand how we can convince them to move forward with upgrades and lots of different ways to go do that. And -- but the driver really would be a couple of areas.

One would be technology transitions. So I think 4G to 5G and wireless think of faster WiFi speeds like WiFi 6, OS upgrade. So as the devices become older, then there's Android releases aren't available. And then along with that, we extend the security with that OS so long, but eventually, the security patches aren't available. So from a security perspective, that's a driver as well.

The other place is really around use case expansion, right? So that adding more functionality of the devices, things like authentication of facial recognition, think of Zebra Pay integrated RFID on those devices we're going to release here shortly. Over time, we'll be releasing. We showed this at the National Retail Federation Show generative AI large language models on the actual devices and an assistant. So we want this to really be about productivity and wanting more features and functionality within their environment versus just around security, right? And we're seeing that.

I would say that in the area of leasing, what we're looking at is opportunities to marry our software with hardware, and we demonstrated some of this at the National Retail show as well is that Think of a wearable device that has our task management software, communication collaboration on that wearable device in retail, which would be sold as a service kind of offering to our customers, so not quite a lease.

In most cases, our customers say, hey, I can -- I'd rather spend the capital than lease. But in this case, it would be an OpEx recurring revenue stream around software and hardware combined together. So sales teams have a lot of different plays they're running to try to move those customers forward with upgrades.

Yes, Rob, I'd say that there are opportunities for us as we look around the globe, and we have different market shares those are two good examples of really significantly lower share than we have in other places. But as we look at each vertical market as we look at each geography, we see places where we can continue to take share as a business.

Japan is a great opportunity for us, as we've talked about for a while, second largest market in Asia, we won the largest postal carrier there. We've won the largest retailer we now have the attention of some of the largest integrators -- system integrators and cellular carriers in Japan to work in some new opportunities there beyond retail and postal. So those have gotten some more attention and we've changed our channel strategy there a bit to large work with larger SIs.

We've just hired a new sales leader. If we look at government in the U.S., a new sales leader there is the refocus on government and building our partner community and expanding our reach inside government opportunities that includes public safety. So, we're excited about these markets because we have low share, and we know there's opportunities for our portfolio within those underserved markets.

Chris, maybe start with RFID. We're continuing to see strong interest across many customers and verticals. We've seen the opportunity to expand beyond retail apparel really into track and trace, supply chains, parcel tracking, baggage tracking tools, work in progress in manufacturing, health care opportunities, all with RFID.

Certainly, Walmart and what UPS is doing inside smart package into their environment has caused others to continue to look at of interest in RFID. The cost of the tags coming down in the has created opportunity because today, we have the broadest and deepest set of RFID solutions in the market.

And that includes fixed readers, handheld readers, industrial and mobile printers, software and the label to go along with that. So we've seen strong double-digit growth over the past few years in RFID, including in 2023. And we are excited about the opportunity across everything we do in RFID.

I would say in machine vision really focused in two areas: manufacturing and transportation logistics from a manufacturing perspective, automotive, food and beverage, inside logistics, it's really about warehouse and distribution. We combined our organic investment really with a few acquisitions of Matrox and Adaptive Vision. That's really given us a broad differentiated offering across those markets and creates opportunities for us to win and what we see as a fragmented multibillion-dollar market opportunity for us.

Our value proposition really is around marrying software and hardware together and giving a unified software platform to our customers and easy to set up, easy to upgrade really to drive simplicity, speed, efficiency within our customers' organizations that allow them to automate in an easier way and upgrade that automation from things like fixed industrial scanning to machine vision.

So, we're excited about both these opportunities. We are the leaders in RFID reading today. We're a challenger in the machine vision market, and we see both being a tremendous opportunity for Zebra.

Thank you. As we look towards the long term, the opportunity for Zebra is bright. I'd just like to thank our customers, our partners and employees for their support. We look forward to returning to growth in 2024.

Have a good day, everyone.