Bill Christensen
JELD-WEN Holding, Inc. (JELD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks Pill. Good morning.

Yeah. So Phil, thank you for the question. As we look at our transformation, as I shared in my prepared remarks, we have a significant pipeline of projects, so over 800 that we're currently working through. And we've sequenced these, obviously over the next number of years, and there's projects that are dropping.

In ’24 we expect that's going to deliver probably $50 million to the bottom line. There's other projects, one, which we talked about automation in some of our door facilities where we're in the pipeline and ordering the equipment, but that will be installed late in the year, so that will clearly have then an impact in ‘25 and out years.

So it's too early for us to commit to what we see that we're going to deliver in ‘25. We'll clearly have a strong line of sight as we get into the back half of this year. But our expectations is that the project pipeline, based on what we see today, will be ramping up in the out years, but too early to calibrate.

Our message this year, Phil, is we want to overcompensate the market headwinds with our internal actions, as we did last year, and I think we did well. So we're expecting to deliver more benefit than what we're going to lose in sales headwind, but we are expecting a significant pipeline ramp up as we roll into the back end of the year, and we'll be sharing that as we get into, let's say, Q3, Q4 results.

Yeah, so maybe I can start at a high level Phil, and then Julie maybe can augment with some details.

So our aspiration this year is definitely to be neutral from a price cost standpoint. I would say at the end of last year, we finally had caught up. As you well know, we were lagging for a while on price, and so we do feel that we've caught up. We still see cost inflation coming at us, even with the down volume. There's labor inflation, there's benefit inflation, there's glass inflation. So there are some key input costs that are increasing.

We're doing our best to offset that, and clearly the aspiration is neutral this year in a pretty demanding, potentially down volume market. Negotiations are ongoing. Some are already complete. So I'd say it's too early to draw final conclusions about where things land, but our teams are doing their work, and we feel comfortable currently giving the guidance that we want to be price cost neutral.

Thanks Pill. Have a good day.

Hi, Susan.

Yes. So thanks for your question, Susan. Here's from a high level how we're looking at the year currently, and then I'll talk maybe at the end about how we're looking at 1H versus 2H potentially.

So if we break down North America, we got three buckets that are relevant. Two are very relevant. So new construction, single family, that's about 50% of the sales in North America. We're seeing it's flat to slightly up in ‘24.

R&R, which is close to 50% of our sales is down low to mid single, and we do have a small bucket of non-residential or commercial, which is our multifamily business, VPI. That's a very small share, and we're growing well. We expect that market's going to be down double digits. We see ourselves only down high single, because we are gaining share. But again, that's not a material mover for us. We're talking about, less than 5% of total sales.

So really new resi down – or new resi up flat to slightly up, and then on the repair and remodel, down low to mid single. I'd say that there's definitely a view in the market, talking to our customers, retail partners, that, if someone had to pick a half, it would definitely be H2 with a little bit of potential upside. As we look at macro headwinds potentially residing as we move into the back half of the year, with interest rates easing and mortgages becoming a little more attractive, that could do a couple of things.

Number one, get some more people into the resale market, and that could trigger some potential R&R upside. But still, current view today is we're not planning on that upside. You can see the high end of our guidance top line is to be flat year-over-year, and that would actually imply slight growth in the U.S. and Europe definitely being down. And that would be, I think – what we're thinking is an optimistic case, given current view, so that's kind of where we are.

Julie can give a little more balance on what the sales is going to look like, H1, H2.

Yeah, so I mean, if we think about what we're trying to do now, Susan, with getting our foundation in order, clearly it's to create pretty significant operating leverage as the volume bounces back, and the volume will bounce back. Clearly, the U.S. is underbuilt. There's a pent up demand. We know kind of we know what the macro upside is, but this is actually a great opportunity for us to be doing a lot of the homework that we need to get done. And again, the over 800 work streams that we currently have running are balanced over the next three years.

And we're going to see a pretty significant exit run rate ramp up as we move into the end of this year. And so we are expecting that a volume uptick will be clearly good news for us, but that's not controlling what we see in ‘24. We're doing our homework and we're planning on delivering those results to outpace the market headwind.

If things change and surprise everyone in a positive manner, clearly our upside will be more significant. I think we've told you in the past, we see 25% to 30% operating leverage on the uptake. And we've done a good job in the last, I'd say, 12 months of really dialing in our capacity and making sure that our supply chains and our cost to serve are well balanced for the future.

So we feel that we're in pretty good shape and still doing a lot of the homework that we need to do, because our margins as I said in my prepared remarks, are still a long way away from where we need to be.

Thank you, Susan.

Yes, so I would say, so a couple of maybe high level comments John, and then maybe Julie can jump in with some detail. So clearly the run rate, if you look at Q4, 14% volume mixed down in North America, 20% in Europe, which I mean, those are pretty significant numbers. And mainly volume, there was not a lot of price in Q4. So really volume was the key driver.

And especially in North America, if you think about a lot of the large retail partners that are balancing their inventories going into their fiscal year end, which is early this year, some of the tight inventories in the market weren't being reloaded. And by the way, we're starting to see some rebalancing of inventories as people start to better position themselves for potential growth in the back half of this year.

So some of the signals that we're seeing are, I'd say, better balancing of channel inventories. And that's why we feel that the run rates that we saw in Q4 are not going to pull through to Q1. We're expecting a bit better traction in Q1.

Julie can share some numbers and some detail that may help underscore that.

Yes, just a little more color on the mix there. Really in Europe that was almost entirely volume. So there was really very little negative mix in that negative 20% of volume mix.

North America, I would say that volume impact was probably more like kind of 11% within that incremental 2%, 3% being negative mix. So again, still in North America heavily weighted to lower volumes, but did have a little bit of negative mix in that region in that fourth quarter.

Yeah, I would say no. I think it's going to track on kind of what we saw at the back half of last year. If you just think, where is the market in general, I'd say we're mixing down, because the new construction market is tilted towards starter homes and lower price point homes. What we see, especially in January and February, a lot of the projects in Canada that we have, a lot of the projects on our VPI commercial side, also in Europe, which are typically you know better margin profile businesses are being pushed out based on financing constraints that the projects have. So people are still going to run the projects, they are just waiting. So we do think that in general, we are mixing down, which is consistent with what we saw at the end of last year.

You’re welcome.

Thanks Joe. Good morning.

Yeah. So starting with the second question first, Joe. So I would say that we're definitely cleaning up our distribution model and we're looking at that as we do assess our footprint and our cost to serve our key customers across all markets in North America.

So we're making sure that we're balanced, not to current state, but to what we expect the future state to be. And clearly, based on the light volume, there's been overcapacity in some of our sites in the market as well. So we have taken sites offline as we all know last year, and we're continuing to critically look at cost to serve model. And that is, I think, well balanced to an upswing in the market, because we've been doing a lot of great homework there.

On the other side, as we kind of roll forward and just look at a very high level view, you asked North America, I'm going to just go up a level and say that we clearly expect macro headwinds in Europe to continue into next year. So clearly, the outlook in Europe is definitely weaker in the next couple of years than we would expect for North America. And North America clearly, as I said before, we're underbuilt, we need the units, but there's also going to be a snapback of R&R activity as resales kick in when interest rates come down.

So we do expect both levers to be moving in the right direction. And clearly, we're getting ourselves ready to be able to serve both of those models and make sure that our cost to serve is well balanced. And if we see an increase in volume in ‘25, as many people expect currently in North America, we should have some nice operating leverage that drops to the bottom line.

We're focused on both pillars, traditional and retail, because they are both very important to us. And we're making sure that our cost to serve and our on-time delivery and our quality is meeting customer expectations in both of those segments.

Yeah, and Joe, I would just add that, these 800 plus projects, we have high visibility in our system, we're sequencing. As long as we see opportunity to deliver IRRs, 20% and above, we're investing in ourselves, because I believe that is an outstanding return for our shareholders and the right way to deploy capital.

And so I would expect that also next year CapEx would be elevated from a historical run rate if it's the same as this year. We'll have a discussion as we see the portfolio, the maturity and what kind of investments we need to make, but we will be investing and that will continue into next year on the capital side.

Julie mentioned the one-time we'll be out, but we'll still be funding projects that are very attractive and candid. But we just don't have the resource currently to push all of these through the pipeline at the same time. So we're making sure that we're not biting off more than we can chew.

Alright, thanks Joe. Have a good day.

Hey Andrew. Good morning.

Yeah, well, so there's still a high level of uncertainty, I would argue, in the market in general. Clearly there's some key macro levers that are going to potentially soften the back half of this year, which could potentially improve the reality. But don't forget, we're three to six months behind a start until our products are built in.

First window is to button up the envelope and then doors later in the process. So it takes a while for this to trickle down.

Second point is, we potentially see these starts out there, but it's a lower end. And so we would actually like to see the higher end come back. So the custom and that's a pull through for our wood windows and our premium products. And so clearly, there's some pretty good value appreciation when that market comes back. But clearly, it's way softer than the low end of the market.

So we're, I would say, I wouldn't call us overly cautious. I would just say that we're careful, because there's just so many things that are influencing this market in the current state, and this is our view. If things are better, then I think we'll all be proud and happy to report that as the year goes on.

And I would say we've talked, Andrew, on prior calls. There's a couple of things. I mean, we still have a lot of work to do on cleaning up kind of the pricing foundation and making sure that we are doing a better job of being consistent and that's still ongoing. But I'd say on a broader level, the input costs, we want to make sure that we can offset that with price, but nothing more than that.

All right, thanks Andrew.

I think that's – Steven, I think that's the big lever. It's roughly 50% of our North American sales. And as we look at retail, there's a couple of things that are important in retail. I've said this before. You need to have the product there, especially if it's cash and carry. There's a couple of different elements that the retail partners are working on. So it's making sure you have the product there if the traffic is in the store.

Second is, they are trying to do a better job of rebalancing inventories as we're coming out of a very tight inventory reality in the last couple of months. And I do see that some of our partners are doing a better job of making sure that there's availability in stores.

And the second key lever for growth, and that's linked, a lot of that's linked to resale. And with every resale, there's some R&R activity, and then there's another resale behind that. So there's just a number of things that are linked together when the resale market really starts to kick in. And I would argue that that's driven by interest rate relief and the people being able to get into mortgages that are closer to where they currently are. And I'd say the second pillar that we're really driving on R&R is the professional growth.

And professional growth is one of those areas where if there's a big cash and carry market and a lot of the customers are already there, there are some products as well that our retail partners believe that that would be a good opportunity for them to take some share on what they call the pro segment. So those are the two things. And pro is not distinctly linked to the new construction or the resale market.

Yeah, so it's – number one, it's the ability of our organization to execute on those projects, that is the bottleneck currently. We feel great about the strength of the balance sheet and our ability to self-fund this transformation, which was one of the key things that we wanted to deliver.

There are longer lead times for certain things. And obviously, that's going to also define timelines and our ability to spend and also to deliver and install certain lines and equipment, so I would say we're the bottleneck. I would be pleased if we could spend the upper end of the range. But I think that's going to be a challenge for our organization, because we're coming from a very different reality.

You're welcome, Steve. And have a good day.

Hi.

So in general, we don't want to make comments about competitors. Clearly, we can talk about the competitive landscape. And our main focus is to execute on what we have in front of us to really improve our operating performance.

So we are totally focused on doing that and delivering the appropriate returns. And that means cleaning up our supply chain. That means optimizing our footprint. That means driving growth initiatives. And if we execute on that, which I'm very confident that we will, that puts us in a great position in the market.

I think maybe it's more challenging for the equity analyst environment. There's one less direct comp for us in the market. But we're focused on really ourselves and really delivering what we see we need to do and have a pretty clear view on how we're going to do it and what we're investing to get there. So I think that would be my comment in general.

We're very bullish on the market. It's gone through a tough time and it will continue to be tough in Europe. But it's a great opportunity and we're taking advantage of that to do our homework, clean ourselves up, and really get ready for the rebound, so we can come out pretty strong. So we feel well positioned. But still, we have a lot of work to do.

Yes. So Alex, we typically wouldn't share that kind of detail on profit pools across different channels. That's not the kind of detail that we'd provide.

All right. You're welcome. Have a good day.

Yes. So I would – Keith, thanks for the question. We have stepped up the leadership quality in the European market with the hire of Gustavo, and we're really looking forward to actually accelerating the transformation plans that we have for Europe.

We've said all along, we have strong brands in strong markets, but we have yet to deliver commensurate margins to really validate that case. So the ball is in our court to do that, and that's a challenge that we've accepted and we want to deliver on.

So we have a broad portfolio of projects to improve the profit levels in underperforming markets. And we have also high expectations of margin appreciation, even in ‘24, with continued market headwinds, and I'd say they are a little behind the U.S. from a volume development standpoint. So it will be also a challenging ‘25, at least the start of ‘25. So we need to make sure that we're well prepared for that.

So, no other strategic implications for Europe outside of, hey, we've got to fix the foundation in Europe and get ourselves ready for the profitable growth, which will clearly arrive. It's just going to take a bit longer than in North America.

Alright Keith. Thank you.