Bill Waltz
Atkore Inc. (ATKR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Alex.

Yeah. So, just one other thought on David's, because of the IRA, just moving volume from China to the U.S. doubles the size of the market. So, the market is exceptionally healthy. It's all about us and just getting factories up.

And then, for HDPE, that's a little bit more triangulation, but I think everybody from fiber optic [public] (ph) corporations, I won't call out individuals, but that are out there that have already announced their earnings and their estimates on when the funding will get deployed to our competitors that are public that have announced to things like the fiber optic BEAD Association and so forth, have all estimated their second half of next year. So from that to talking to customers, we're pretty optimistic.

Again, it's $65 billion of what's called BEAD part of the IIJA. So, it's a huge amount of funding. It's just a question of getting that "shovel ready" taking longer than expected. But we're ready and it's really what's going to help carry us full-year '25 and beyond.

Yeah. So two things, Alex. I'm going to answer your specific question and then go a little bit broader on M&A. Absolutely, yes. And we just had our Board meeting and they had the same exact thought as you. Classically, this is a perfect time to potentially acquire and so forth. So, we are out, we are working deals.

To the one chart that David did with capital deployment, the good news also with Atkore is we give our estimates for this year and reaffirm the $18-plus for next year is there's so many organic opportunities where we're spending $200 million plus on capital that even without M&A, you're comfortable with the $18 EPS for next year. And our management is so focused on that, that we're not going to opportunistically just grab acquisitions for the sake of acquisitions.

But I think we've always been disciplined and we'll continue to be disciplined as we quite frankly absorb all the stuff of startup of factories, deploying capital for technology, the regional service centers and so forth.

Thank you, Alex.

Hey, good morning, Deane.

Yeah. So, Deane, I just think Q4 was slightly better as we expected, and the whole year was slightly better. If you go back, and David, perhaps correct me, or you, Deane, we started the year with around $850 million EBITDA. So again, this was a strong year that beat our expectations and guide, analyst expectations and guide, this quarter's that we just wrapped up, analyst guide for EPS and EBITDA and so forth. And pricing still remains good, better than what we forecasted, but I also want -- as David walked through in the prepared remarks, we continue to see PVC slowly go down. So that's the part of the estimate as we go forward.

But really the stuff that we presented in November a year ago is playing out other than slightly better than exactly to go, "Hey, over a two-year period, here's what we think we're going to keep because of our service, our regional service centers, the ability for one order, one delivery, one invoice. We're going to keep some of the price, but we're also going to give back some."

And again, PVC we talk about because that's the biggest product from the price up. But you have those dynamics across all the other products, which by the way, some products I won't call off specifically, we see giving up some price, other ones probably the strongest price either ever or at least in the last year or two. And we just put price increases out on, I guess, I can share, on metal conduit yesterday here. As steel costs go up, we're raising our metal conduit prices. So, I don't want to say business as usual because it's a headwind, but it's very much playing out like we estimate it this time.

And the other thing, Deane, not part of your question, but what I'm excited about that shareholders should be is the chart that we walked through where we're forecasting double-digit organic growth, which to me was that and the dividend were two things that should be very positively received by our shareholders as we go forward. That's the two things. In fairness, de-stocking happened last year, so we don't have that happening again in the market. And then, the fact that we are the [self-help] (ph) of all these different initiatives are starting to pay off here. So that's really when we make the statement about we're excited about the future of Atkore, these are some of the reasons for that.

Do you want to go, David?

You're welcome. Thanks, Deane.

Hey, good morning, Andy.

Yeah. So, I'll start and then David may have to help me. It feels like years ago for the last quarter. But, Deane -- or Andy, maybe I'll go with different direction though. The large projects overall are really strong. I would even say if you look at any macro indicator, ABI, Dodge and so forth, the amount of large projects that are starting with some of the stimulus to go, whether it's new factories going up, whether chips, data centers being driven by artificial intelligence, and that's just in the United States, [indiscernible] again, we do have a global presence here, really drives some of the optimism that we had with the forecast for double-digit growth. So, overall, we're optimistic on the markets going forward especially with these large projects that we're involved in.

And then, I don't recall anything specifically, say, July versus August.

Yeah. Andy, I'll also take the same question from the like, positive to negative, but it's a positive to go, the markets are there. In other words, the amount of construction backlog is within 0.2 months plus or minus as high as it's ever been. Architectural Billings Index was slightly down, but the amount if you actually look into how many months of backlog does an architect have is still as strong as it's ever been.

So, all the volume is there, let alone when we started getting more of the infrastructure from the IRA and so forth, the IIJA, so it really becomes what are the limiting factors and it's been labor. So, in some ways, one could argue a little bit softer labor market that we can get more people working construction will help. And then, it's other people's products like switchgear and so forth.

So, the more that they get -- to David's earlier point, get out of their backlog, the quicker our products will flow. And then as David mentioned, yeah, I'd say we do have easier comps because we don't have the de-stock going on. So, we get the factory up, we get some of these projects moving ahead, we get our growth initiatives, we're optimistic as we go forward, obviously.

Yeah. So, we're still working through some of the startups, but we have that in our forecast for this quarter, and expect as we go into the next calendar year to be having these things behind us. By the way, we're seeing -- we get weekly -- our leadership, our president and so forth, daily metrics, but David and I, weekly metrics. And we're seeing the pickup and we're seeing the, "Hey, here's the next part being run and the turnover time and bringing on another shift of employees". So, everything basically going as expected. We are probably just way too optimistic in, call it, July of the time it takes to start up a whole factory with a whole other workforce, but we're on schedule for that now.

And then for the conduits to growth, Andy, I'm going to wing something, but I know David wants to probably speak to it is the way I look at it is absolutely driving because we're forecasting double-digit growth organic next year and pick whatever number, 2%, 3% for just what the markets on -- naturally drive. So that extra growth, whether it is solar torque tubes, whether it is new product development, whether it is the service centers and be able to drive that one order, one delivery, one invoice with comprehensive pricing of products, that's what's driving Atkore and our optimism in the future to grow more than the markets.

Thank you, Andy.

Good morning, Chris.

Yeah, which is a good thing from extra capital that would be deployed or stock buyback. And then also Chris, if your question was more '25 versus '24, our current thought process is this would mostly normalize in '24. Now, if you think about it, if we gave slightly more price, let's say, in April of '24, from a comp perspective at the beginning of '25, you're still going to have some discussion about it. And that's where I would just go back and say, we've been, in my personal opinion, amazing to be able to look out three years, plug in $18 EPS, explain pricing going down, explain what we're driving, and basically then on every forecast and/or exceed most things. So, right now, everything looks to be playing out as we expect it to be. But there will be a little bit of price discussion even in next fiscal year.

Yeah, I'll jump right into that. Yes, there's a lot of projects without getting too specific on what customer, but we have, I mean, to compliment our team here, just an amazing job on relationships, seeing the value that we bring to them, brand names that are global, and in this case, they want global providers. So, whether it's Europe, the United States, Middle East, wherever it is, we're hooked in. But at this stage, it's really with some of these large projects that we're real close on is getting the [PO] (ph), not that we don't have pick a number, don't lock in on this number, but $100 million of ongoing global mega projects to earlier questions, the data centers and chip manufacturers are, in my opinion, exporting, or at least for us they are. But you will see a much larger impact in the second half of this upcoming fiscal year from a year-over-year perspective.

Thanks for that, Chris.

Good morning.

Yeah, David...

I think they're good. I mean, it was good with the following things. I would say low-single-digit growth in general, not now us as a manufacturer, in fact, that's the end market, like what is being installed? From there, we won't have some of the de-stocking that occurred earlier in our fiscal year. So, therefore, that will help Atkore. As you kind of almost did my own CEO bridge, so to speak, to go, how do you go from low-single-digit to double-digit -- low-double-digit growth. You have that headwind of last year going away, so that's going to help.

And then, as David and I mentioned, every investor should understand, but you won't see if you just looked at square feet or some other metric. Is the electrification -- I think every one of our peers, no matter where you are in the electrical industry, this is going to be the best decade ever with just everything from [PGD] (ph), I think just yesterday in the Wall Street Journal, we announced a thousand miles or some number around there of varying electrical cables, the grid hardening in general, the BEAD act when it comes. There's just so many different things to go. The intensity of a data center for the matter of electrical products that we will put into that would be more than what a hotel would cost to put up, period. I mean, so like when you win one of these jobs, it's intense.

So I think it's, at our conduits of growth, self-help, on a really good just secular trends tailwind that we have that kind of bridges us from the markets of low-single-digit to Atkore we're aspiring to be low-double-digit growth this year.

Thank you, Chris.

Before we conclude, let me summarize my three key takeaways from today's discussion. First, fiscal 2023 was a very good year for Atkore. Second, we are well positioned to build on our positive business momentum and have a strong outlook for fiscal year 2024. Third, our strategy will drive further value creation into the future as we continue to execute on our growth opportunities and deliver on our updated capital deployment model.

With that, thank you for your support and interest in our company, and we look forward to speaking with you during our next quarterly call. This concludes the call for today.
