Bob Bruggeworth
Qorvo, Inc. (QRVO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi. This is Bob. Gary, thanks for the question. And as you know, we don’t normally talk a lot about our largest customer. I think what I can say is ACG will be down quarter-over-quarter. So we are expecting from a smartphone revenue to be down. And historically, it is a lower quarter for our largest customer. So, I don’t know why -- whoever said whatever you just said. But I think we have a real good handle on the market. We talk a lot about our model and how things work. So, we feel good about what we’ve said for sure, no doubt.

Absolutely. Go ahead, Gary.

Gary, thanks for the question. And as you pointed out, always forecasting the future is quite difficult. Here’s what I do know. If we go back and look at where we’re gaining share and what we’ve been talking about, the great work we’ve done in the Android ecosystem, whether that’s Samsung and Google and already what we believe we’ve started to win in ‘24. And as you know, what we’ve been facing are these headwinds with not shipping up the demand and reducing the inventories that Grant went through, the 20% last quarter -- or two quarters ago, 25% last quarter that. As that comes and we continue to gain share there. I believe we can get back there or better. No doubt about it. But again, you have to forecast our largest customers done quite well in gaining share in some of their markets. So, the good news is we’re positioned, and I think this is what’s important. We’re the only strategic supplier of the top six Android manufacturers, and we’ve got a great business that we’re growing with our largest customer. So, when we look at it from that perspective, what we’re convinced is we can continue to grow.

Yes. I think what’s interesting, Vivek, is, I mean, over time, we’ve done a pretty good job of holding in the areas that we’re winning nice share and growing, and as they add content in those areas, we’ve done well. So as we look out, we feel pretty good about things. And I even commented and Grant did as well that we believe we can continue to grow content at our largest customer, whether it be BAW-based or our discrete components that we sell there. So, we feel good about the outlook there for multiple years.

Yes. I think I answered this question last quarter, I believe, on a similar topic, and it was both. We’re gaining content through both share gains as well as, to your point, making the pie bigger. Both.

Yes. Thanks, Ed. And as you know, for our largest customer, we won’t talk about any future architectures, but I’m sure once you turn down the phones, you’ll see where we want. And as I said, we’re very confident in our ability to continue to grow there. And Dave, do you want to take out of the work that we’re doing there? Second part of his question.

Matt, I’ll make a couple of comments and then turn it over to Dave. But we really don’t want to get into giving dollars and units and all that because it moves around based on future demand. I think what we can say is that we’re going to continue to reduce the channel inventory. So, we have a ways to go. And what we said was we’ll reduce it this quarter and probably continue to reduce in September. It’s probably going to take till December on the overall channel inventories. And I think we were one of the first saying, hey, we were going to do this, to your point. And I can’t speak for the others that you’re listening to, but we started a throttle back on this a long time ago and others are just seeing it. I also think our lead times are much shorter than theirs, which is why we saw this before they did and saw now coming back differently. Coming back in a sense, not the market’s coming back, that we’ve made significant progress on reducing the inventories in the channel. So, the headwinds are subsiding and slight tailwinds are going to be behind us as we start shipping into the end demand, even though it’s significantly lower than what we saw a year ago. So, I think I captured that. Dave, if you want to add any color to that, feel free.

100% agree with your last comment. We’re not seeing any pickup either. What we’ve been making clear now for the second quarter now, we continue to reduce the channel inventories. So, as you do that, we’ve reduced the inventory. Customers do need to order some parts. So, all we’re saying is in our revenue, we’re going to see an uptick. That has nothing to do with end demand. It means we’re signaling we’re heading towards the bottom of cleaning up the channel. I think Dave just mentioned that our bookings were up strong. In fact, we had the largest bookings in China for almost two years now. So, all we’re showing is the momentum is changing, not in the end market, not in the end market. We don’t disagree with anything that you guys have heard from others. It’s -- we’ve done a very good job over the last two quarters of significantly reducing the channel inventory. So, all we’re saying is we’re starting to see that bottom. And as I mentioned earlier, the headwinds are subsiding and the tailwinds are starting to come. But that’s not an end market comment. That’s a comment about our revenue.

We want to thank everyone for joining us today. We appreciate your time. We look forward to meeting with you at upcoming investor conferences. I hope you have a good night. Thank you.
