Bob Schottenstein
M/I Homes, Inc. (MHO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Alan.

You must be celebrating your football team's performance.

I would expect nothing less.

Yes. I think on the cost side things have stabilized quite a bit, even on land development. A year ago, I was quite concerned -- we were quite concerned about inflation on land development. Clearly, there has been some, but that appears to be moderating somewhat as well. Maybe not every single aspect, still probably a little bit of pressure on concrete. But on the cost side, I think we feel pretty good about where that stands in terms of moderating inflation and moderating increases. A year ago, as we looked at what we thought was going to happen in 2023, we thought margins would be under considerable pressure given where rates were and the softening of demand.

And as it turned out, even though we did have to spend money, as I mentioned, on a selective basis, and some of it was very targeted for certain communities to provide a more marketable rate, we were really pleased and surprised, frankly, that our margins held steady at just over 25% as you mentioned. Yes, it's very, very hard to forecast margins. Everybody has an opinion, but sitting where we are now, as I look at demand and I look at traffic, Web site traffic, the way the year is starting out, what we're hearing in the field, even in markets that might have been a little weaker throughout the early parts of last year now appear to be quite a bit stronger. We're hopeful that we can continue to maintain margins in this level.

I don't know if they'll go up. We're super excited about all the new communities we're going to be opening. We have -- and it was reflected in the average selling price, that Phil mentioned coming down slightly, we have a lot more affordable product offerings that we hope will provide bigger pace and strong margins coming out this year. But you don't know until you really know, if you're really honest about it. But I guess sitting here today, generally pretty optimistic about the state of housing, the state of demand, and our ability to continue to generate what I think are very solid returns. We're not expecting much erosion frankly. And maybe we'll be fortunate with a little bit of uptick because we don't see the pressure on the cost side maybe quite as much as we did a couple of years ago.

And frankly, the other thing is, for the most part, the supply chain disruptions that we just couldn't stop talking about post COVID, have now seen to have pretty much cleared out and dissipated.

Exactly. Look, and I don't think we're alone in this, which is also comforting. If you're the only one that's experiencing something it always makes you wonder whether it's good or bad. But I think that there is a lot of momentum within the industry right now, and we're just -- you sort of hear things and seeing what other builders have recently said as well, it resonates with us.

Yes, I'll let Phil give you the -- yes, and great question. I'll let Phil give a little more of the detail. We've increased on -- it's a subdivision business, so it's not necessarily the case in every subdivision. But on average, our plan is to have more specs than maybe we would have had three or four years ago. We've ramped up our specs for all the reasons that you mentioned. And then the other thing is as -- in terms of mix with Smart Series and also town homes -- attached town homes, which represent an increasing percentage of our business company-wide, that will also result in more specs with these four-unit, six-unit buildings being the most common form of town home. So, you start a building with one or two sales, you automatically have three or four specs out there.

Phil, you want to add anything else to that?

Per community.

Thanks, you too.

Hey, Jay.

I'll take the last part of that first and then Phil will give you the pace. Somewhat surprising, well, just we start over. What I mentioned was, is that the increase in demand and traffic that really sort of intensified during the fourth quarter and that resulted in December being our best month of the quarter. That has continued and that increase in traffic and demand. And while technically January is not over, our January sales will exceed last year's. We're very pleased with the way the year is starting up and optimistic about the selling season. Phil can give you the details on pace.

Well, I actually have a slightly contrary view on that. I think first of all, it's very market specific. I mean, it's cliche, but every market is different. I think that in a number of instances, we're starting to see incentives line, ours have. And the slight decline in mortgage rates that we've seen over the last 90 days, it's made it so that you don't have to spend as much where needed to provide a rate in either the low 6s or the high 5s. And you'd rather not spend anything on that, but that's what we have been doing and the net-net of that has resulted in our 25.3% gross margins. If demand continues to stay like it does, like it is now, I'd like to think that builder behavior will respond accordingly and not see as much of a need for incentivizing. That's sort of how we are thinking about it.

Look, I think we've said this before. Our goal is to grow the business. We are very bullish about housing and we are really bullish about our business. And our growth goals, 5% to 10% per year, hopefully closer to 10%, and that remains our strategic outlook.

Continue to produce really high quality affordable product, whether it's attached or detached and well-located communities, you probably would like a more magical answer, but I think that's what it goes back to. Well-located communities will sell, and they will sell at really good margins. And if the majority of our communities check the box of being exceptionally well-located, we think they do, we think we can maintain our margins that way. That's what happened in 2023. We expect it to happen in 2024.

As we increase the mix of attached product in our company, probably approaching somewhere around 20% company-wide, we get higher density and that brings, even though the land may cost more, all those things hunt back into the average selling price. I mean, if I don't want to sound like a broken record, but if someone would have said a year ago, your average price is going to come down, will your margin stay the same? You might have go, I don't think so. But that's what happened. And we may still see a slight relative reduction in average price because of the continued leaning into of slightly more attached product as well as, we've just had home run success with our Smart Series. And it's over half of our business and it will continue to be.

Phil, and I are playing off of each other here. Just on the cycle time, in many of our markets right now, our cycle time is approaching pre-COVID levels, which is where it needs to be. And we still have a little bit of room to run there in some other markets, but 60-day improvement on average year-over-year in 2023, I think was heroic. That was our goal. I thought we thought it was a stretch goal, but we hit it. And as I said in my primary comments, cycle time remains a very, very intense area of focus for us. And that contributes to margins as well and returns.

No.

No, no. The underwriting, we haven't changed our approach in underwriting. Every community is underwritten to hit certain thresholds, and we're not doing attached product at lower margins. That's not the goal. If anything, hopefully with pace and so forth, it will be at least equal to, if not better than what we get with single family. We've had all the -- and I don't want to let this go unsaid either, we have a lot of move-up product that's very successful for us. And so, it's -- we're not just -- we don't have all our eggs in one basket, but about half of our business is designed to be very affordable.

Thanks, Jay.
