Bob Wetherbee
ATI Inc. (ATI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Seth. I think the question you're asking about aerospace, I think you also have to throw in the defense bucket probably what you saw in Q4 is incredibly strong defense sales picking up. So they're all running through that same low path predominantly plate is where we're seeing some of the debottlenecking being required, whether that's process control equipment or twist to make sure that we're covering it titanium, titanium and nickel and some of the PH grades we make require some slightly different process times.

So we're working through that. But I think, when you look forward, the order is very strong for aerospace. The airframes are back. I mean we're going to see continued growth through the year. I think, overall I think Q1 was just kind of mixed up with the defense activity that was pretty heavy in Q4.
In the fourth quarter. I think that's true. Yes, you'll see it return to strength yet. These airframe guys, they kind of go up. We talked about the stairstep and the lead times remember when we were booking Q4 of 2023 that was like 12 months before. So, obviously, the defense demand is somewhat emergent and they've got some big programs they're trying to deal with. So it's just a matter of how the orders fell into the quarter. But long-term, we don't see anything disrupting the strength of the airframe side of the business. In fact, that's where we're spending a lot of time debottlenecking at the moment.

Hi, Gautam.

Yes. I think – yes third question. I think about 50-50 is how I would put it 50% unplanned and that was pretty much on the melt side, where you just get a failure? Or do you get some kind of an electrical problem or different pieces but it was equipment related and/or we're still going through some operator training issues and crewing issues. So those – about 50% was melt and it was pretty much unplanned and happened pretty quick. And – but any melt is important met today.

The other issue that we certainly dealt with was planned outage for a particular press. Usually we do those in about a week. I think this one took about 2.5 weeks to kind of get where we want it to be. And the challenge specifically, was the outage occurred at the bottleneck, right?

And so you got to have outages a lot of different places but this one we pushed it as far as we could. We recognize we needed to do it. We recognize that we need to do it quickly. So we did it. And yes, why wasn't it conveyed? Fair question. We probably thought it was going to be less of an impact at the end of the year but that's the reality of where we are. But again, we did it to ensure that we had what we needed for 2024 and beyond.\

Some of these maintenance cycles – they can be two, three, four years. And we see that in the industry, where you take something down for a week and other people are down for six weeks, right? So I think that's part of the planned maintenance that we need to make sure we're on top of.

See there's like eight questions in there Richard, I have to peel them out for you. So I think if you go back to June of 2023, we announced $1.2 billion in long-term contracts that would carry us from 2024 to 2029 or the balance of the decade. That is true and that's what we're seeing, right? We're seeing the customers respond. If you go back to June of 2023, however, our lead times were already out into the middle part of 2024. So that's why we're seeing this very strong second half as these orders are kicking in. Our capacity from what we're doing in Oregon is flowing through to those orders. We don't cast or melt anything that doesn't have a specific order. So we see that material flowing everything is working.

So I think one of your questions was we've seen the benefit of everyone else leaving the Russian supply source. We're seeing it. In some cases, we feel we're getting more than our fair share of that. So that's part of the answer to your question. I think -- we're debottlenecking everywhere we can. We've historically been kind of heavy nickel less titanium airframe, I think we're going to be much more balanced in the future. So some of our processes require some debottlenecking. The processes are slightly different and we have to address that.

I think in terms of demand, I would say about weather for us is clearly wide-body demand kind of came in to the point where we were doing 12 wide-bodies a month, now it's 15 probably going to go to 19 probably going to go to 24 over the next couple of years. So the real strength of the market for titanium is yet to come. We're seeing a lot of defense activity and that's kind of coming through at the same time. So I would just say when you think about titanium and you think of ATI, about half of it is probably the big B related 20%, 30% is probably the big A and the rest is defense. So all that growth is hitting home kind of as we hit the mid part of the year into the next couple of years. Don, did you want to -- here some questions I think Richard had that you could help him with.

In ATI? No.

Yeah. We think they're behind us. The bottleneck issue was around the first step in the process from -- testing to using the billet. That's why the billet press was important. It was originally designed to be a nickel press. And when you shift over to titanium, you have to add a couple of pieces to the puzzle to make sure you're making a quality titanium part, different temperature, different issues.

So that's behind us. I think we eat and breathe the issues around all kinds of melting. That's why we talk about being melt long. We're not investing huge amounts of money in melting other than what we talked about with titanium, which within our guidance. I do think there are two issues that are out there in the marketplace that we are working.

One is what I'd call contracted services with significant training or certification requirements, which makes it hard for contracted services to ramp quickly. Some people see that as like ultrasonic inspection and some of that in aerospace is kind of under the rest with some of the other activities that are going on in the market.

The other issue is there are some single points of failure out there. We get -- we're part of directed buy contracts with our major OEMs where they ship and bill it to us. And there are a couple of other parts of the supply chain where they've had a failure, I think extrusion facility in Texas has had a problem that affects some of the supply chain. But those that are within our control and those things we can manage we feel very confident that we have what we need to execute in 2024.

Good morning, Timna.

Yes. I think that was me to make that comment. And it was really about our activities in the AA&S segment related to the industrial markets. You know, one of the industrial markets that's in there is some of the I call it the nickel clad pipe projects for oil and gas basically in Brazil those kind of places. We want to make sure we got the right amount of capacity there.

We're also seeing like everybody a little bit of softness in the residential construction space. So we have some engineered products that go into that space. And then we obviously watch the distribution channel although the vast majority of what we sell today is the OEM direct we still see some inventory destocking going on in those places, but it's mostly in the AA&S segment and it's stabilized I think is the key. So the headwinds are still there, but they're not getting any worse. And we are seeing some signs of life and green shoots for Q2. But hopefully that helps. Is that what you're looking for Timna?

Yes, that's weak. They're in the tweak category.

So whenever you're doing dealing with your cost structure you wouldn't call them necessarily tweaks because it can involve people and crewing and shifts and that kind of thing. But I would say they're modest at best. I think most of them have already been taken. It's just a matter for them to show up in the results which should be by Q2.

All right. I'll give it a try. And so our aftermarket is predominantly jet engine spares. And so we are seeing elevated spares demand. Historically it's about 25% of our mix. I think today we've said it's by closer to 40% and there's a couple of different reasons for it. And you kind of have to go almost, I don't want to say too much about each individual engine platform but you have to look at it from each individual engine platform.

I think there's some widely discussed issues with the GTF. And there are other issues in terms of just different versions and different kits that are being put in different engines. There's also the extended use of narrow-bodies anytime you're in a major airport and you see an MD-80, say, they're all out of the desert. Everybody is looking for narrow-bodies.

And I think that's the extended cycle from people are reaching the point where they have to make the commitment to major maintenance and engines and overhauls because it's going to be a while before they get their next narrow-body plane.

The wide-body side more and more planes are in the desert where there's more sandy conditions that kind of thing. So I think all the trends for us, we do see that some engine programs will kind of revert back to the mean here in terms of spares, but for the foreseeable future. I think there's enough drivers outside of the norm that's going to keep that spares level elevated for, I would say, a couple of years I think it all gets sorted out. Hopefully that helps.

So let me frame it not just specifically for inventory but how we're thinking about managed working capital in general. Understanding that inventory is the primary piece of management capital. So, we made some really good progress here at the end of the year getting our overall managed working capital down to much, much closer to our 30% target.

As you think about 2024, the way you want to think about it is, we are working very hard to not build inventory as we have done historically during the year. Keep it really tapped down so that it's not a drain on our cash. So that is a clear effort and you should expect to see improvement year-over-year in that area. In terms of the overall year and what are we expecting from managed working capital, we expect that we're going to by the end of 2024 and at the 30% target and very possibly marginally below it. And so that's how I would describe it. Does that help you?

Good morning.

Yes, fair question. I think there's a lot of noise in the system at the moment, whether that's in the US system or the European system, engine programs, airframes a lot of noise, right? But we're not seeing any change in behavior in terms of buying patterns or on the airframe side, and certainly not on the engine side.

I think the disruption in the spares or the need for more spares around the GTF is having a positive effect for those of us who supply materials. Certainly, engine guys don't want to be the laggard, they don't want to be the bottleneck either. I think they are working to get ahead. There's also a tremendous influx of defense applications whether it's rotorcraft engines or airframes, there's a lot of activity there, helicopters in particular.

But we're not seeing any let up from the engine producers. And for us, we've materially broadened our market position. So we've always said, we love every airliner that flies in every engine that powers it. And that's more true today than ever before. So today I think -- these companies are big companies. They have great capabilities. They're going to sort themselves out. And I think when they do sort themselves out nobody wants to be the ultimate bottleneck in the supply chain.

Yes. I mean, we feel good about it. Yes, normally, we've been talking all about nickel powder, but titanium has kind of been the topic of conversation in 2023, it's strong. We're on some really great programs that are really ramping up. I think, we've been focusing on yield, and obviously, in the short-term, we can get your yields up 40% that pretty much covers some of the capacity issues that we have in the short to medium-term.

But it continues to be strong. I think when you look at some of these single points of failure that are occurring in the market, especially on the nickel alloy side, if there's a single point of failure, and we're not the supplier, it just opens the door for us, and gives us an opportunity to do more.

So we actually see not only volume growth, but share growth potential there in the next couple of years. So is it going to be tight, it's always going to be tight, because we don't want to have a lot of excess capacity in the system. But I think we're taking steps both in our process improvement and with our customer relationships to move and see the growth there.
