Bob Pittman
iHeartMedia, Inc. (IHRT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well thanks Jessica. Look I think podcasting by almost any measurement, and there are a number of them out there, show it to be the biggest growth vector in the media business today, and we don't see any sign that it's subsiding. As we've said very early on, we think it's a really clear adjacent business to radio. Some would argue it's sort of radio on demand, radio-like programming that's available on demand. And I think the marketplace has gotten a lot more rational. I think people who had ideas about subscriptions, about pay, about exclusivity, about paying tons of money for people in hopes that one day it would be profitable have all sort of fallen by the wayside. And we've gotten back to very clear basics, which is obviously helpful to us because it turns into a rational marketplace in terms of dealing with both talent and dealing with advertisers.

The podcast sector continues to have superior CPMs, premium CPMs. It -- by most measurements, garners the most attention. The podcast hosts are trusted. It's sort of every metric you click off, Jessica, is sort of this wonderful, you know, superior metric. And so I think that's sort of the way we look at the marketplace. In terms of share, it's hard to understand. I think it's hard to get the true denominator on it. But I think people have said we're sort of 20% share in the marketplace. That's -- if you take some of the numbers, that's sort of where it works out. Obviously in terms of profitability, we're a lot more than that.

You know, I would add one more thing, Jessica, just on the future. That, you know, as a reminder, we've been building out the ad tech platform with the data and analytics, which will allow us, and it's obviously one of the advantages of having such a strong hand in podcasting, that if someone finds an audience they really like, that's really engaged, that's very important to them, we'll be able to find that audience in broadcast radio at greater scale and add it to the podcast reach of whatever they're doing. So for us it promises to, you know, extend the power of podcasting directly into our broadcast radio as well.

Well, if I can jump in on the advertising question, Jessica. We think advertising is strengthening. We called it last year. We thought this year would be the recovery year. We're seeing that. January was a little slow, but it's picked up in February and March and seeing it in the second quarter. So we're optimistic that we're seeing that, and that we'll be a beneficiary of it.

Sure. Look, I think we're seeing across the board, seeing a strengthening of advertising. You know, obviously some groups of advertisers will be stronger than others. But as a reminder, we have no category that's more than 5% of our ad revenue. So we're pretty diverse in terms of our exposure to categories. And I think, again, for whatever reason, and I think listening to others, you heard it in the marketplace, the January just start off a little slow. You know, it can be a lot of external variables that do stuff. It's the slowest month of the year.

But as the year picked up, February people are here and I think in our discussions with advertisers, I think everybody is looking for growth out of their business and growth is driven by advertising.

Well, one point I would make is that last year we talked some about rebalancing the mix of ad products going for profitability. And I think you've seen that come through in the margin of our digital business in this quarter.

Well, Steve, I don't think this will surprise you. I'm not going to comment on anything specific, but safe to say, and you reiterated it, first and foremost, continuing to execute the generation of significant free cash flow. And we are focused on our maturities and we're evaluating all of them and we continue to focus on our refinancing of the balance sheet, as you would expect. But our objectives haven't changed at all, and our focus has not changed.

No. I mean, look, I think the advice we've said is about 10% of EBITDA in cash taxes, you know, we're all aware, you know, of the various efforts going on, but that assumes no changes that we've all been reading about in any of the proposed changes, potential changes out there, which at least some of the potential changes could impact us very favorably, but we have not assumed that at this point.

Let me hit the first part of that and I'll let Rich take the other, is we see the digital TAM continuing to expand, and we are able to participate in it through our Digital Audio Group, and we also think that we are probably expanding our growth within that as well. And obviously adding the technology to our broadcast radio inventory, our strategy is to get that into the digital TAM too, so that eventually the broadcast radio inventory benefits from the growth of digital overall.

Sure. Look, at the heart of it, we have this incredible and unique reach we reach 90% of Americans with our AM, FM broadcast business our assets that's higher than Facebook and Google it's double more than double the broadcast network TV networks and no one in the digital audio space comes close. So that is a real advantage we have. We reach consumers. And if you go to the fundamentals of marketing, the basics marketing is the more people I can tell my message to, the more business I'll have because a certain percentage of everyone I tell will turn into a customer. So we know that's valuable.

The problem with broadcast radio has not been the consumer reach, has not been the consumer. It has been how we're selling our advertising. And we have -- are developing the technology platform, so that the advertisers who are looking for that inventory to look like digital inventory will have the platform that allows that to happen. We think that's the major benefit to us in broadcast radio. So broadcast radio doing extraordinarily well with the consumer and has a huge upside opportunity in our mind for advertising sales because of one, that reach and two, our ability to serve that reach as Rich talked earlier, being able to provide that same kind of reach to specific cohorts, not just Nielsen audiences.

And what was something on podcasting, you want to talk about translation?

We have been experimenting. It's getting better. Not quite to the level we need it to be to say, let's roll it out. But it's making fast pace gains in terms of the quality. And we anticipate probably in this year that we'll get stuff of that quality. How quickly we'll be able to monetize it and get it out there, I don't think we have any projections yet, but we'll know a lot more by probably the next couple of earnings calls.

It is uneconomic to do it manually, because there's so many episodes, there's so many podcasts, there's so many languages, and AI is really the solution.
