Brad Southern
Louisiana-Pacific Corporation (LPX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So, Ketan, we had a good recovery in shed demand second half of last year. So certainly Q4 was okay to good. Right now in our order file, it's probably the weakest sector that we have. I think there was a little bit of inventory built in that shed serving channel in Q4, but it's okay. But right now it's the weakest part of our order file. But we do not anticipate that carrying out throughout the year. It's just kind of what's happening right now.

As you are referencing, I'm sure, we'd certainly experience kind of an overhang post-COVID of shed demand being very light first half of this year. We're seeing this year being more of a normal demand pool for that sector again. Again - but we did carry a little inventory - well, the channel carried a little inventory across the year that we're working through right now. No worries there. Just kind of the current situation in the market.

Thank you.

Yes. So the two areas of focus, first of all from a sales resource standpoint is around new construction and the sales assets that are focused on that segment, along with the technical support that goes into ensuring a smooth transition of the incumbent Siding product onto SmartSide. So we're adding sales resources in support of that push in new construction.

And then on the marketing side, the focus there is primarily in Repair and Remodel. That is a different sales process where contractors are actually convincing a homeowner to reside their house and then to use our product. And that requires a good bit of personalized or more consumer-oriented marketing support. And so not all of the increases is there, but certainly the majority of the marketing spend increase is focused on our growth of Repair and Remodel.

Yes, well, the second and third quarters are obviously going to see if this plays out higher volumes year-over-year than first and fourth quarters, most likely. So my anticipation is that they - if the margin peaks, it'll - well, I'm not sure, but certainly I think third and - second and third quarters will be healthy EBITDA margins.

Given the extra volume.

George, let me - on these additional sales and marketing spend, the impact of that spend is not instantaneous. It's always an investment. In support of our CapEx - the CapEx investment we've made over the last three years or four years, we did consciously cut back on sales and marketing spend as we were in a managed order file. Obviously there wasn't immediate need for demand creation and any demand that would have been created, we would have had trouble satisfying.

And so we're seeing this year really is a return to the - more in line with our prior COVID rate, plus added emphasis around the two segments that I mentioned before, where we have historically been underpenetrated and not had to have either the sales assets or the level of marketing spend that we anticipate to support a Repair and Remodel.

But I would - from a marketing standpoint, you create - I mean, just at a high level, you create impressions, you create some brand equity in anticipation of that, creating demand that you feel later on. And then on the sales side, yes, some of these technical support staff that we add can have an immediate impact, but really that's more or less helping us with volume we've already converted. The more strategic sales investments, it takes a few months to hire them, a few months to train them, and then a few months for them to start being effective out in the field.

So I would say most of this incremental sales and marketing spend, maybe other than the technical sales support, is going into demand creation that will fill, at the best case, late this year, probably more into next year.

No, I agree with that conceptually, yes. And then on the…

The question on - I'll move to the OSB question. If you want to come back to the Siding question, we certainly can. But on the Structural Solutions, mid-55 - I mean between 50% and 60%, I think, is a realistic goal for this year. I'd love to see 55%. We do manage that for margin, more so than for volume, but certainly our strategy is to get volume growth as well. And so - the - our ability to push that volume is somewhat dependent on the current price level and our enthusiasm about margin management. But a realistic goal will probably be 53%, 54% and then our upside goal maybe 55%, 56%.

Susan, we did limit the pre-buy volume to basically the average purchases over the prior nine months for our customers. So we had essentially no into minimal pre-buy or pre-buy into December volume for January. So I feel really good about how we carried that across year. And I feel good about the first six weeks activity in our order file.

And I feel - there always is some seasonal inventory build this time of year in Siding as people come back from the holidays in anticipation of the spring build, especially now that we're also in the pre-finished business. But I would call the seasonal build right now in the channel normal, pre-COVID normal. And so we feel good about pace of our order file and we feel good about where inventories level, inventory levels are now in the channel and our own inventories at the mill level.

Susan, I think interest rate reduction this year would have a - I think it would have a significant impact on housing. I think that kind of the short term would be more emotional perhaps than economic. Just the movement downward, I think, would provide some homebuyers the confidence to move into the market. I do think that over a period of time, it could free up some existing homes to go on the market.

For homeowners that have been kind of hesitant in this interest rate environment to make that move, that won't necessarily translate into new home construction. I mean, wasn't at all, but it's certainly housing that would be on the market. So I think for this year, on new construction, the impact would be maybe a little more emotional or feel good than it is really the economics changing. But I think over - for 2025, it could be a very powerful driver of demand.

And then secondly, on the Repair and Remodel, a reSiding project is a high-dollar project that is highly likely to be financed instead of paid out of savings. So I do think that interest rate reduction would have a more immediate impact on Repair and Remodel by just making those projects more affordable for a homeowner. So if we get that reduction, I think it would provide new constructions on tailwind, then, maybe it would be more impactful to '25. I think for Repair and Remodel that impact could be immediate for us.

Thanks, Susan.

Yes, so I think it's - certainly our focus this year is around growing our BuilderSeries and our ExpertFinish brands. One for ExpertFinish Repair and Remodel, BuilderSeries for new construction. The BuilderSeries depends on the SKU, but typically that is a price point item to a certain extent.

So that would be a damper on average price as that volume increases not necessarily on margin but on price. And then for ExpertFinish, that sells for a much higher pricing and so that would be weighting our revenue up if we get more ExpertFinish. So, I'm not - I think there's probably more opportunity from a net-net for the ExpertFinish to have a bigger impact positively than BuilderSeries would have negatively. But we'll have to see how that plays out as we go through the year.

So maybe mix would be a slight positive upside to the year compared to '23.

Yes. So I would say, just giving the exposure that we have to conferences and one-on-one conversations, I think the - maybe in the middle of fall last year I felt like there was some - I felt more pessimistic about this year from a builder standpoint. I think the mood there has strengthened through Q4, and certainly the tone right now is pretty solid.

Obviously the conversations around rate reduction has a positive impact on sentiment there or on the mood. But the large national builders that we partner with are certainly optimistic about this year. They've put infrastructure in place to sell through this year and are anticipating growth.

I do - I was surprised to hear in a conference I was in, in Q4, or maybe it was in January, anticipating some strengthening from the regional builders just because there's such a need for new home construction because the existing homes are on the market. And there - I mean, at the end of the day, there is only so much the national builders can do in the moment as they continue to grow.

And also, post-COVID, there has been some capability for the regional builders to get the permitting, get the infrastructure in place where they're maybe not as efficient at that as the big builder, but they have been working on it.

So overall, I think we could see some recovery or some growth at the regional level. Honestly, that placed our existing sweet spot inside and we've always had a really good presence there. You couple that with continued growth at the national builder level, we could really play out for a good year for us in new construction.

Well, I'll do the shape of the cost curve. It's pretty flat, Sean. Obviously, we have some mills that are our cost and lower cost. But it - and that's how we rationalize capacity when we do take the downtime. But it's probably unmeasurable at the $4 billion level. We had a shift back at Maniwaki or something like that from a cost standpoint.

So pretty flat cost curve. And then obviously we've learned how to move the capacity or the production up and down pretty efficiently so that the cost of downtime isn't great either. So, yes, flat cost curve for us and relatively flat for the industry, at least when we do the analysis. Earlier in my career, I was in the paper business where the cost curves could be pretty steep, and that's certainly not the case in OSB.

Yes, so, the BuilderSeries is very important to our growth objectives as a - for our segment and for the company. It is a - it provides a competitive alternative for the big builder in new construction, of course. The reception upon use has been very good. It is a very workable product and certainly easier to install and the competitive product that we're going up against.

So the reception has been good. The key is trial and getting the product - there's an incumbent product that we're having to compete against and so the - that - and that is a long sales process. These aren't something that tracking - the decision is not made weekly on which Siding a builder is going to use. And so it's a long sales process. It - I'll tell you, we have a great value proposition with BuilderSeries standalone.

But as we couple that with Structural Solutions and even our commodity OSB, which is also a valuable part of the home builders package, we bring a heft to the sales process around these big builders that incorporates all of the products we make in North America and we're finding traction with that as we couple Siding with Structural Solutions portfolio, and as I mentioned, even with commodity OSB. We are a meaningful supplier - have been a meaningful supplier to the big builder for a long time in our OSB business. And so bringing a Siding Solution to that relationship, we're finding to be very helpful. The relationship that we built through our OSB business is helpful in the sales process for Siding.

So, we're getting started. I feel good about the progress we've made since we launched BuilderSeries. I have a tremendous amount of confidence in the product. I have a lot of confidence that once we get the trial, once we get some usage and conversion, the product is going to be sticky because the installers are going to love the product, as we've experienced across our portfolio for 25 years. And we were very underpenetrated at the national builder level. So all that volume is incremental to us and as those builders continue to grow and gain market share, this provides us a real - a large opportunity to continue this growth story that we've been working on for the past 15 years in Siding.
