Brendan Foley
McCormick & Company, Incorporated (MKC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Andrew.

Well, Andrew, thanks for the question. Let me start by commenting on how we ended 2023 from a volume perspective. While the fourth quarter was below our expectations, there were bright spots, because our actions are working in a number of categories that are critical for us. And for the challenging area, you know what the issues are, and I'm pleased with the speed and urgency with which the team is addressing them.

I guess just to step back, pre-pandemic, we consistently drove volume growth across our business in both segments. And the macro dynamics of the last several years disrupted this. And so we see 2024 as an important moment to get back there as soon as we can. We do have a bias towards even greater investment on the business.

And as I've said, we're approaching our plans differently with even greater competitive posture, greater intentionality towards driving volume growth and share in those key and really attractive categories. I think where we stand at this point in 2024 is we appear to be moving beyond those macro dynamics. Yet at the same time, we recognize the uncertainty of the environment, and therefore, I'm taking a cautious view on that outlook.

From a consumption standpoint, we do expect to exit 2024 in a stronger position than how we exited in 2023. And importantly, though, we're also entering 2024 in a position of strength in terms of our ability to invest in the business and expand margins. So we're able to intentionally focus those investments on areas that we expect will have the greatest impact on improving volume performance and driving sustainable profit growth.

We expect our volumes to improve as we progress through the year and to drive the volume growth during the second half. This momentum is expected to continue into 2025, notwithstanding any new surprises on sort of the macroeconomic headwinds that might be out there. And I believe our investments will drive quality earnings growth and will put us on a trajectory of -- on that long-term algorithm. So those are the -- that's the way we're thinking about exiting '23, how we're thinking about '24 and as we go into '25.

Well, as I said, we're entering '24 in a position of strength after navigating these dynamics over the last several years. And I'll turn it over to Mike just to give some context, and I'll wrap it up with a few other thoughts.

Mike said on sort of this portfolio optimization, we really do see that working. So we did make a couple of intentional moves as you know. That's really, I think, allowing us to invest even more in the part of the portfolio, which we know will be the strongest. And then we did make a lot of targeted investments in '23.

So that's yielding results. We like where that's going. And it's achieving high ROI, and that's carrying us into '24. So I do believe this intentional investment in those categories that are core to us will really be the biggest drivers of profitable growth. And we should see that margin accretion from that mix of sales. So we really do believe we're operating in a position of strength there.

Good morning.

I think to maybe one point. As we get the price differentials right, the advertising is even more effective. And that's important. And we're happy with the ROIs on our A&P, but it gets even better when you have the right price differential, as we've seen with Black Pepper, Vanilla and other categories.

On China, and just a little bit of context here, our food away from home business, which is included in Asia Pacific Consumer, it definitely will – we expect to see slower demand, especially sort of in the first half of the year. But we do expect overall China sales in 2024 to be comparable to 2023.

But maybe for some more additional context, Mike and I spent a week in China in early January, just actually a few weeks ago just visiting our teams there and assessing dense conditions. And I would say, broadly, our outlook for the Chinese consumer does remain cautious. There's a number of indicators that kind of point to this. There's high unemployment with young adults, low consumer confidence.

We see consumers with a reluctance to spend. And uniquely in our business, we tend to serve the smaller independent restaurants, particularly in Central China, and we see them losing traffic to larger chains and QSRs, because they're really driving either really strong value or they're winning on just even more store growth overall.

And so we see this playing out in the retail category there, especially with the modern trade. Just to share a quick anecdote, as we were there, I took one afternoon just to walk around and actually I forgot the pack a tie, So I had to go buy a tie and go to an apartment store. What struck me was really a lot of movement in people outside than on the streets.

And I want to go get a cup of coffee. It's kind of empty. Go to the department store, not spoke with anybody almost. And so there's just not really a lot of active spending. We see a lot of people out and about the mobilities there, and it's returned, but we're not seeing the spending. And I think it's broadly sort of an example of what we are observing as we were in the market there.

Having said that though, like we do in other regions, we do have plans to really address the change in trends with the Chinese consumer. And we do expect our Flavor Solutions business to be a bit stronger this year just due to the QSR trends. But we do expect a gradual recovery in China, starting probably more in the second half of 2024.
And the exact pace of growth will really be determined by how that macroeconomic parameter kind of plays out and consumer confidence plans over the next few quarters. But we really do continue to believe in the long-term growth trajectory of this market and are working to strengthen those plans as we go through 2024.

Good morning.

Well, Alexia, thanks for the question. We never really project exactly what to expect and share, because there's just a lot of dynamics that might happen at the shelf. But I would point to how we're talking about volume and our outlook on volume as we think about the first half, the second half and as we expect to kind of grow volume in the back half of the year. That certainly will have an influence on what we see play out in share performance. But we tend not to sort of specifically tell you. I don't think that there is a specific quarter I can tell you when that's going to happen.

Well, good morning, Max, I'll maybe kick it off with some context around your question on sales and consumption and sort of the state of the consumer, and I'll pass it over to Mike for commentary on -- I think you had a question there with regard to margin. But I think we are taking a cautious view with regard to where the consumer is right now. And that's really informed by what we saw in Q4.

We just saw a little bit more shifting, particularly as you think about how the quarter played out and if you think about consumption trends, we saw consumers really pulled back in September and October, and then really wait until right before the holidays to really make a lot of their purchases. And we even see -- saw similar indications leading up to Christmas.

So, what's underneath that, I think, is people were certainly holding off there, making a lot more trips to the store, buying a lot fewer items and units. And maybe even smaller units actually started to come true, I think, from a consumer trend standpoint. And I think we just have to acknowledge that this is a little bit different than what we saw in the summer. It was a little bit more pronounced. Certainly, it affected our trends as we kind of been really clear about.

And so it's prudent for us to just take a cautious view where the consumer is going to be going here in early 2024. And so we felt like it was best to recognize that in our outlook, particularly as we think about the first half of the year. But we're also going to be putting in more investment in the business, more A&P. So we expect also to be able to meet the consumer where they are right now and really try to focus on our game plan, which is to drive volume growth. Mike, do you want to add...
Yes. Would you mind repeating the margin question, I didn't quite get that.

Yes. I mean we're confident in our CCI and GOE programs. I mean we've baked -- low single-digit inflation environment, like I said before, which we have good line of sight generally for the rest of the year, gives us more confidence there.

First quarter is going to be our highest cost increase. And we see it petering down after that and our pricing is going to be the highest in the first quarter, too. Generally, I think what I'd say, if you think about last year with our GOE programs, we met our targets. Actually, we exceeded a bit our external targets.

We were a bit prudent because -- but we met our internal target. So I would say being prudent is the word of the day. And love to over-deliver if we could. But we also realized in this environment, making investments on price gap management and A&P is really important. So we'll assess that as the year goes on.

Good morning Steve.

Sure, Steve. Our growth momentum in Flavor Solutions was pretty exceptional, I think, throughout the year in 2023 with double-digit growth in the first three quarters and slight volume growth there. But even with the deceleration in the fourth quarter, we had pretty strong organic growth throughout 2023. And we do expect to continue to make really good progress there.

Although, we’re not going to be in double digits, I think, in 2024, but still making really good progress. To give you maybe more of a regional consideration, as I think through the portfolio. In the Americas, we continue to drive strong branded foodservice volume. And in flavors, particularly in a number of the categories that we tend to have some strong performance and like performance nutrition and beverage, we see continued strong performance in volume. And I think that we would expect that to continue into 2024.

Across the rest of the flavor product category, a lot of our growth was impacted by the softness of our customers' performance in the market with regard to units and volume. And we saw a little bit more drop than we would have expected, not inconsistent with our own consumer business. And so while we're disappointed in that softness, we still believe our results are pretty good in this area. I think that's the chance of that continuing to 2024, probably likely.

In EMEA, as we mentioned in our third quarter call, that our customers there are, both for packaged goods and also quick serve restaurants, are experiencing softness in their volumes within their business, too. And we anticipated that in the fourth quarter. However, there's even maybe a little bit more than what we expected. So almost like a similar theme to what I said about the U.S. And so we expect some softness related there as we enter in Q1.

But we're optimistic, again, that we'll continue to sort of improve every quarter as we go through 2024. And then in Asia Pacific, our growth that was impacted by slower than expected restaurant traffic. Some of that really had to do with just unrelated matters, but some boycotts issues that we're seeing in Southeast Asia. But we saw some nice performance in China, so I would expect that to continue in 2024 and some trends. So that's just some context around Flavor Solutions.

Okay.

Good morning.

Well, with so much has changed since 2019, I think that -- if I think about the entirety of all the different levers and variables that you were talking about, whether it's price elasticity or volume and where the consumer is, there's been reasonably enough significant change that. As we take a look at our categories, we're taking a look at in terms of how they're performing today and where we need to go in order to drive volume growth.

And as we said earlier, that's a component of increased A&P. A lot of that advertising focused on talking about value. Parts of our portfolio, we know that price gap management can have a really effective impact on turning around unit volume trends. And so I think that's an indication of where the consumer is right now. If you look at unit volume performance, either in our business or probably the category, pricing has had an impact, and we have to acknowledge that.

Having said that, though, if I compare our business organically, and product mix, compared to 2019, our total organic volume is about the same as 2019. We haven't really lost significant volume or on product mix since pre-pandemic. And so I think that's one sort of consideration to have is, while there's been a lot of change in many ups and downs, I think, if you think about all these macro dynamic impacts we've been going through, we find ourselves in a similar volume position as we were in 2019. I don't -- I think I might have provided the context that you're looking for.

Well, as I think about our competitive posture in Flavor Solutions, I feel really good about it. It starts with having great capabilities in technology and a great team. And I think we do have a differentiated approach towards driving growth, particularly in flavors and seasonings in that part of our business.

From a technology standpoint, we continue to win and sort of there's -- a lot of categories that we operate in there that we're targeting because they're positive and high growth. And we also tend to get a good mix of large customers and moderately in small-sized customers who tend to be characterized by much even higher growth.
As we think about that as a portfolio mix of customers, we're seeing a lot of strength coming from that. And I would just point to our Boeing trends throughout '23. And as we think about '24 to be an indication of how we think we're performing relative to the market there overall. And so those are some indications.

Now, the other one on top of that would be heat. And we continue to see growth through heat. We continue to see that as a as the part of that portfolio, if you will, it tends to grow at an even higher rate just due to where consumers are. And we talked a lot about heat extensively in terms of how popular it is.

And so that's another reason to believe that we feel like we're competitively poised in this part of our business. It's an exciting part of our business. It's an exciting part of our business. It's one that's receiving a lot of increased investment, too, as we think about building capacity, technology and really growing to global scale.
Largely, I think it's a product of price gaps that we can manage to. But I think your observations would align with ours in that it isn't strictly an issue regarding private label or other branded competition.

I think it's really an attractive category that has always received new competitors and new entrants. And so we look broadly when we think about competition in that part of our portfolio, as being -- and at the shelf is both watching those gaps versus private label and also branded competitors.
Good morning Rob. Hello.

We do. I mean we look at that annually. And it's part of our strategic planning process. And so yes, we do spend time making sure we understand how that's performing. But I think your 5% to 7%, I think, is -- or actually you said 4% to 6%, but I would tell you it's generally around those same numbers. We tend to think about it is 5% to 7% at a global level.

No, I would urge you not to take away that as an indication that the category is weaker. This is still a very attractive category. Also appreciate that the category at the global level has also gone through a lot of inflation in pricing and similar factors, but we still see this as a very attractive category for the total company. And so that is not the view that we take, particularly with the data that we look at. And so I think maybe that got at the heart of your question.

It's harder to quantify because it's – we know how much we're shipping out in terms of our total portfolio that's getting this new package. And so as I said, that number is at 75%. And that, we feel that's – we're pretty accurate about that. But now the reflection on shelf, as all this inventory is flowing in on shelf, that's happening on a lag to that 75% number.

We expect it to just continue to increase through the first half of the year. I think through the first half of the year, we should largely be caught up to that number to specific standpoint, too. If you walk into a store today, you're going to see on the shelf some in the old package, some of the new package, and that's just maybe an indication of how you might think about flow-through overall.

However, I will tell you that as we do look at specific accounts and locations where we know we're seeing a lot of that flow through already have occurred, we are seeing a nice pickup in velocity as we would have expected to be the case, because we've seen this package perform in EMEA in a similar way. And it really does deliver on the SKUs for freshness for consumers and really kind of takes it up a notch in terms of the overall benefit and offering that we're providing consumers. So we feel pretty good about that.
What you'll also hear us talk about is we're going to start to move other parts of the product line into this package, too, beginning in the back half of 2024. So we're not done. But this part of our line that we've been speaking about since mid-last year is still in the process of flowing through on shelf.
I think we were, Rob, if I'm not mistaken…

3% to 4% range for 2023. Know that underneath that, we tend to see working media grow a lot faster than that, because we're also offsetting it with other productivity and taking out more nonworking investments. But 2023 is in that range. Now 2024 though, is in the double-digit range. And we feel really good about that where we're putting that investment.

The only thing I'll add on top of what Mike just said with regard to just that constant focus against improving margin. We're also -- as we continue to shift customers to higher-margin product lines, more insulated technology, et cetera, it allows us to continue to grow margin too. But I think Mike pretty much nailed it there. And that's our outlook on it. It's still pretty positive. And it's just going to take us a little bit longer, as we've been calling out really ever since, I think, last year.