Brent Yeagy
Wabash National Corporation (WNC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Michael, great question. Obviously, no one has a complete crystal ball to what 2025 will be but I'll attempt to unpack it from our point of view. I think, absolutely, there are initial signs within the market that it is beginning to heal and correct itself and those should become much more measurable and, I would say, verge on materiality in the results of our customers probably by midsummer. Now, clearly, that is -- that hinges on continuation of the prevailing thought that we'll see interest rates actually reduce in -- we'll say, after March, based on the most recent feedback from the Fed. I think we want -- obviously, that means that the current status quo, from a geopolitical standpoint, doesn't materially change in that time period. But I think the things that the U.S. economy is acting on sets us up for a much better 2025. Now, I think the definition of a snapback is -- still needs to be unpacked. And can we see -- and should we see a significant demand difference in 2025?

I believe that to be the case. Is it a step function change moving into necessarily those first few months of 2025? I would probably pull back a little bit on that. But I think what you will see is a -- I think we have -- we're sitting in a position where we have a different perspective on the market going into '25. I think you'll see that robustness build throughout 2025 and I think it can be material. And we are planning our business based off of that being the most probable outcome at this moment.

Yes. I think it's a mix of factors. There is the reduction in working capital going into '24. There will be some relative increase to prepare for '25. Bu at the same time, you have to integrate in that supply chains are getting better. We're moving away more and more from the increased safety stock and raws. So there's a lot to integrate there. So I echo Mike. There's a lot of factors that go in that says, it really shouldn't be a big deal moving into '25.

I think every aspect of our strategic product portfolio will be a driver in 2025 as we do that. I don't think it's just on the reefer side. It will continue to be a growing part of our overall portfolio, as well as we'll see it from dry vans. We'll see platform pick up significantly from where it'll be in 2024. Truck bodies are going to be coming off of a very stable environment with a growing demand profile in '25 with Parts and Services just complementing it all. So I feel pretty good about all those different product lines and service capabilities in '25.

Yes. So, we'd frame it this way. When we think about headcount across the business, it is not one answer across the board. We had some aspects of the business such as with truck bodies that we're adding headcount and -- versus trailers, where we'll be looking at holding headcount. And we're not holding headcount in a manner which it is not -- is underutilized or non-utilized labor. We've been able to secure sales and a backlog and are filling in order to utilize that labor in a standard efficiency way. So right now, there would be little to no, what I would call, detrimental impact from a labor cost standpoint within our margins. Most of the right sizing of dry van capacity has been through shifting volume to the added capacity that we brought online and then taking out our third shift, levelling the plant on a 2-shift operation. And then, what workforce we have shed has been on the temporary side, again, leaving our full-time workforce intact.

Yes. And then, there's the added upside of how we manage the workforce today. And then, throughout 2024, as we bring our, we'd call, more efficient, higher throughput manufacturing capability for dry vans at scale with added demand as we prepare for '25 really, what I want to say, allows us to utilize this headcount that we have in a really efficient way and not have to take on as much of the headcount inefficiency as we move into and throughout 2025, right? So, it's really not about accepting added cost right now. It's about building capability to defer and prevent inefficiency in outer, we'd call, periods and years.

Yes. The customer behavior, customer sentiment, forward-looking views that they provide us are really right in line with where they were even at the third quarter call and are reflective of the general market. I think ACT is as right as they can be based on the market.

Yes. Jeff, I would say your -- I'd say the thesis you're presenting is, we'd call it, in the ballpark of correctness. We absolutely are growing market share as we sit here today in 2024, as we keep our relative trailer production in line with our existing headcount. And we're able to do that, maintaining a price leading position in the market which is a very nice place to be. At the same time, bringing on, we'd call it, 10,000 units of, we'd call it, capacity gain in the dry van business. And so, we are doing the work today to build a backlog and a set of customer relationships that you didn't think about across the entire dry van manufacturing system. The ability of taking that demand in -- I think the demand itself will allow -- will be there without putting real strain on the pricing environment in '25 which is a big deal, right?

So we're leading price. We think there's going to be a market that allows that price to sustain, maybe even grow a little bit and able to do it in an efficient way in '25. And so, we see that capacity being able to be utilized very efficiently. And we want -- our manufacturing strategy here is not to run the business at 105%, 115% of straight time capacity. We want to run it at a much more efficient place going forward, while maintaining a pricing environment that is most advantageous and meeting the strategic needs of those core customers that call Wabash home. So there's a lot of things going together there but it sets up for -- sets up well for 2025 and beyond.

Great question. I think it's still materializing over the next 24 to 36 months. We are, again, adding additional capacity and that capacity seems to be being utilized well based off of the backlog we see in 2024 which is going to pressure us to add additional capacity. But that capacity is going to require some new manufacturing technology that's in the process of being developed. So those 2 things have to coincide. But we are absolutely establishing more and more every day the value proposition for the pricing that we believe that, that product deserves. And as long as that continues to go down that path, again, we'll be pressured to add capacity in outgoing years.

Yes. And I'm glad Mike said that because I'm remiss, because even internally, we want to frame it as it's really about Cold Chain technology scaling. It's not really about reefer vans per se. And to Mike's point, we're seeing opportunities that compete for capacity now in terms of total return to the business. That makes for interesting capacity allocation discussions right now.

Yes. I think it's just, I guess, paramount to understand that, Jeff, as we continue to grow in Parts and Services, we're not doing it in the same old blocking and tackling way, right, competing, I would say, with equal capability. The way that we're attacking the market is really going after it, the unserved areas in an underserved way which allows us some blue ocean capabilities to grow and that's all on purpose. There's no need to jump into the pool with everyone else. We need to find a new pool.
