Brendan McCracken
Ovintiv Inc. (OVV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Look, this has been a multi-year effort where we use the culture and the expertise of our team through innovation to really drive those capital efficiencies. And so, I think that's great to see the 18%. If you remember when we transacted on the EnCap, we had programmed or guided to a 15%. So we've even outperformed that already, and so we're excited about that and I think I thank the team for that and I guess I would tell our investors we're hungry for more. But I'll turn it over to Greg to comment on the specifics of those efficiency gains.

It's over 10% from those pre ‘23 results, Arun. And just as a reminder there, we've stayed consistent in the cube development mode and have not shifted into up spacing or skipping benches. In fact, we've added benches as we've been pointing to with our assessment and appraisal work.

And the reason that's important is we're delivering that inflection, and enhanced and really, as Greg pointed out, leading productivity per foot without sacrificing those zones and destroying inventory for the future which when you combine that with the amount of premium inventory we've added to the company over the last several years, and then having preserved and added organically as well, I think is a distinguishing story.

For sure. But from an inventory perspective in the Montney, we we're blessed. So we've had a historic position in that play, and that's important for two reasons. One, the acreage there, we can hold that without the continuous drilling programs that folks are maybe used to in the US. So we've had a massive acreage footprint in the plate for a long time.

And so that sets us up with a deep premium inventory on both the oil side where we're over 10 years of inventory on the oil side and then on the gas side decades of inventory is probably the way to describe that. I mean, we're not currently drilling any, any gas wells, but deep inventory on the gas side of the play as well, which we think becomes real value on the road ahead. Obviously today doesn't look like a great return from competitiveness in our portfolio, and that's why we're not putting capital there. So that's the inventory side of things.

I'd say from a competitiveness perspective, look, we've got that big position. There is an incumbency advantage in the Montney where the historic producers in the play have got access to market, which is really the big differentiator I think everybody recognizes the rock is globally unique and competitive. But it's the access to market that really unlocks the returns.

And again, because of our historic position in the play, we've been able to deliver really high return on invested capital by having great market access. And again, I just remind you, we have almost no ACO exposure out through the end of 2025 and the condensate, which is the oil we're producing in the play and targeting the play trades. Today just $2 or $3 back from TI.

Gabe, thanks for the question. Obviously, the weather is in the review here and then the piece that's still active is the refinery turnaround. There's a number of refiners in that Salt Lake City market and they all run on a four to five year maintenance turnaround schedule. As it happens, we've got two of those five refiners currently down for their routine, planned maintenance and that will persist into March here.

Obviously, we are dialoguing with them closely and understanding their schedule to be back up and then using our rail access to try and move barrels that way. But otherwise, the other pieces of the other planned maintenances and weather in the rear view.

For sure, Gabe. The biggest piece of that bucket is our capitalized G&A. If you recall, we have some of that capitalized G&A that's traditionally for years been done that way. That's the biggest piece of that. And then really the last little bits of it are some land and some facility capital, but they're pretty minor.

Thanks, Neil. Great to have you back on the name. Really, our thinking here has been consistent. With our cash return to shareholders, we've been using buybacks and I would expect us to continue to use buybacks at current market conditions. Really what we look at there is just a straight value question. What's the best allocation of capital?

Today, we trade at still a very significant intrinsic value discount at mid cycle prices, because of that, we believe the best use is to buyback and to create cash flow per share and free cash flow per share growth through buying those shares back.

Neil, I think, if we take that step back, we formed this durable return strategy three years ago. And that really has led us get ahead of the competition on deepening our premium inventory. And what we see is we've added more premium inventory depth at a lower cost than just about anybody over that period.

And the great part of that is that means we're in a place today where we can be very disciplined and, and really focus on execution. Just a reminder on the numbers, we've added 1,650 premium inventory locations since ‘21. And that's not just the end cap transaction, obviously that was the biggest single mover of the needle, but we also did over 200 bolt-on transactions through that period and have also had great success with our organic conversions to premium as well.

And then I would add, we've also integrated the assets that we acquired seamlessly and that's really demonstrated by the performance of the business that you're seeing. So, I think it exactly as you prompted, we're going to remain very disciplined. But also as you saw in 1Q ‘24 here already, we've added 65 locations at a cost that that delivers really excellent full cycle returns. So, we like that.

I think you should expect us to keep updating on that through the year here, Scott, in bit of internal process. But we usually in the spring is where we really round up our view and look at it on a year over year based basis. So, I think as we go through the year, we're going to obviously be getting more data and results on those tests, and we'll keep the market updated. But I don't think this is something you got to wait till next year on. I think we'll keep updating as we go through the year.

So we're not in this plan building any ducts, Scott, so we'll just have our normal operational run rate of ducks where you just have wells in between drilling and completions. But we're not deliberately investing to build those ducks up in this plan. So I think what you'll see is, if we continue to catch a gear on drilling speed and completion speed, that'll just show up as well as on stream earlier.

And that kind of takes us back to Neil's question on do you save the capital or do you let the production volumes grow? And I think we'll have to answer that as we go through the year and just keep our eye on the fundamentals of the market.

You're absolutely right there. We're going to be adding a sixth rig later in the first half of the year to the Permian. Year-over-year, capital is down in the Permian, but really that's a function of us absorbing all those wells in progress from EnCap. And so, you'll see as us shifting into a six rig run rate in the Permian later in the second half of this year. You're right about that.

Yes. Greg. I would just highlight, it's obviously gotten a lot bigger just in the last 12 months, really basically doubled oil production in the play over the last 12 months. That's not going to be the continued trajectory. I think what you're going to see is, it level out here in 2024, maybe some growth over the year, but leveling out generally compared to that more aggressive or more significant ramp-up. Really, the multiyear look on the Uinta is really again back to a fundamental decision.

Really what we've built here is alongside our other assets, another asset that can compete for capital and create modest growth for the company over time. We've got the ability to continue to scale the takeaway to the Gulf Coast through rail and we're seeing the well performance and returns that could compete for capital and be part of growth. We really have that option and the decision around how to allocate capital there is going to rest on the fundamentals for the company and the larger macro really more than any constraint at a play level.

Greg, thanks for the question. We are entirely motivated about better as opposed to bigger. The focus for us is on that capital efficiency and margin expansion in order to drive free cash flow and return on invested capital. I think the reality is we've got the sophistication and the capability to do that with the portfolio that we have today.

That's really what we're excited about is making that business better. I think as the track record shows, we've been able to inorganically add to that and make ourselves better. I think the 18% capital efficiency is a great proof point of that just in the last 12 months. But we're really focused on better rather than necessarily bigger.

I think, look, the ability to do these very attractive bolt-ons, it's not getting easier, and I think that's been true for some time. It's not just a recent phenomenon, but look, the team's been really creative and I think what we look for is those situations where we've got a differential advantage where it's the either a natural owner situation or I think in a lot of these opportunities, we're bringing something to the table that the seller can benefit from that nobody else does.

And I would highlight our combination of cube development, the density that we attack this acreage at with the leading well results that we garner. I think that is a relatively unique proposition. And so we use those to try and create differential advantage for us in a competitive market.

So, I think you nailed it. It's really hard to be predictive about what those look like over time, but I think it's safe to say it's not getting easier to find those opportunities where the full cycle return really makes sense for the strategy that we've laid out.

I recognize that's a really fair question given how much we've outperformed here in recent quarters. And I would just highlight, if you look at the fourth quarter, we really had everything come together, which is great to see, and I'm particularly pleased about how that flowed all the way through to the bottom line to free cash flow generation.

And so, I think you've nailed it. I think there's a range of risk factors that we have to consider when setting guidance and we're very thoughtful about how we do that and give our investors the best picture for what we think that we're going to deliver in the coming period, whether it's the court coming quarter or the full year. And I think we really are confident in the guidance range that we've provided here today and look forward to executing against that as we go through the year.

Yes. Really appreciate you digging into this one, Roger. I think it's a really important update. It's obviously been one that we've been talking about since we announced the deal. The end-to-end wells, we now have 19 wells on stream with a meaningful amount of production data that were designed and drilled and completed by Ovintiv. It's across three different pads that are spread out across the acreage position. Those collective 19 wells are delivering at a level consistent with our legacy 2023 wells.

I mean, that's just a tremendous outcome. I know that was one of the questions that the market had for us is, how is this acreage going to compete within our portfolio. There you go, right out of the gate, 19 wells, three pads spread across our rate in line. That's given us the confidence to be able to underwrite that 2024 curve, which you can see is actually a little bit up from the '23 overall average. Really that's what's baking in is the full end-to-end Ovintiv design in 2024 across the combined EnCap and legacy acreage.

It's a mix of both of those things, Roger. It's both the extending longer laterals and getting that across existing acres that we control onto new acres, as well as just pure, as you put it, pure new locations where we're adding acreage adjacent to our existing position. It's a mix of both of those things.

Yes. I don't think any different, Jon. I think, again, because of the actions that we've taken to get out ahead of the crowd, so to speak, I think that leads us in a place where we can be really disciplined and just focus on executing within the portfolio that we've got. As you've seen in the 1Q update here, we continue to be pretty focused on adding in the Permian. I would say out of the 1650, the biggest two-third of it was Permian and then the next biggest place where we did bolt-ons was in the Montney. I don't think our view is any different in Canada versus the U.S.

So we really see this guide that we've laid out here in ‘24 as repeatable for 2025. So obviously we're not guiding to ‘25 and beyond, but as we look out in the business, that's what we're seeing is the rateable activity program that we put in place this year. We can just roll that rate into next year again and barring some big change inflation, deflation, we'd just see the same guide numbers that we rolled out today.