Brian Chesky
Airbnb, Inc. (ABNB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, more on the underpenetrated markets. So is one of the few things. First, we just need to make sure that we have great supply and great supply in specific nights. So even the subtleties of local holidays and ensuring that we're there, that we have it at all price points. Different countries have different expectations on what the supply growth looks like and then just make sure we have the right product. Things like we've done include installment payments in Brazil and Latin America, Naver Login in Korea, just making sure that we're showing up locally in the ways that they're expecting.

And then the third is just to make sure we have a full funnel marketing approach. In some of these countries, we're now big enough where we can have a small team do a very targeted social marketing, PR, communications, use influencers, search engine marketing, but build that on top of brand marketing to have that all work together in one full funnel approach.

Approximately 90% of our traffic remains direct or unpaid because the majority of Airbnb stays are unique to us. And that continues to drive the flywheel. But having this full funnel approach is very effective when we implement it on the ground in these countries.

So again, what we saw exiting 2023 was interesting, right? When we were on this call a quarter ago, we've seen some softness in demand in October. And then what we - and so we guided to that kind of expectation. And then what we saw is accelerating demand in November and December. And then as we come into - from that strength, 17% kind of revenue growth and 12% nights growth in the fourth quarter, we're seeing really stable demand coming at the start of the year.

You have to actually rewind the tapes and remind yourself that we were just exiting kind of Omicron and there's a lot of pent-up demand in January of last year, which makes for some harder comps in Q1, but against those harder comps, we continue to see strong demand for travel.

I think that we continue to see a very robust demand for people staying on Airbnbs versus just necessarily kind of buying other things. So the experiences over things continues to be a big trend. And we're excited to see the growth that we're continuing to see in our established businesses in North America and Europe and even greater growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific.

So as we do things, as I said on the last question about doubling down and making sure that we invest in these expansion countries where we're underpenetrated, I think, that's going to continue to drive growth for us for the rest of the year.

Yes. To be clear, when we announced this recently, we updated our terms of service. And what it did is it gives us the ability to implement across currency fee. So we needed to update the terms of service just to allow us to do it. Now the fee only applies when the currency of the guest uses to pay differs from the currency that the host set for their listening.

So we don't anticipate this fee to affect the majority of our guests because the cross currency transactions are only approximately 20% of our gross booking value. It's different than our cross-border, which is closer to 40%. And we anticipate the majority of the fee changes to be closer to 1%. So we're going to test and evaluate and just see what the results are, and that testing will begin in April.

Why now? There's just a point where we understand that the size and complexity of our business ensures that we should be making sure we're providing great value to our guests and our host. We do things like last year, we had a change to our long-term stay fees for beyond 3 months. That was an opportunity where we saw that maybe the fees were too high relative to the benefit we're giving.

I think there's just a fundamental principle where we want to make sure that we're giving more value to our guests and our hosts than we take in our take rate over time, and we're going to continue to be more nuanced in how we make those choices going forward.

Yes. Why don't I start, Brian? So you could think of probably like 3 really big buckets of work that are going to drive conversion of Airbnb. One is our work on affordability. The next is really product optimization. And the third is really quality and reliability. So let me talk about all 3, and I'll start with affordability.

A couple of years ago, we noticed that there was quite a lot of, call it, a feedback we're getting from our guests that Airbnb was getting more expensive. And so last year, we really hunkered down and rolled out a suite of tools for guests and host to make Airbnb more affordable. Starting with total price display, where you now can turn on a toggle and see the total price upfront, including taxes and cleaning fees and services. Now this tool is really important because now we are pushing more demand to listings at better prices.

We've also seen some really positive knock-on effects. For example, 300,000 listings have now reduced or eliminated their cleaning fee and 40% of listing go [ph] we don't even have a cleaning fee. The next thing we did is we encourage more hosting to provide discounts for weekly or monthly stays. As you know, 19% of our month - of our nights are monthly stays and more than 40% are weekly. Well, now two out of three hosts have a monthly or a weekly discount. So this has been a huge, huge improvement.

And we also launched a product called Compare listings. One of the things we noticed is that hosts are more likely to have a competitive price if they see what other similar listings are charging in their neighborhood and then they can see whether they're getting booked or not. Well, since we rolled out that tool, 1.4 million hosts have turned the tool on, and this means they'll provide more competitive listing. The result of which, Brian, is that our prices year-over-year for one bedroom apartment globally are down 2% where hotels are up 7%. That's a 9% swing.

The next is product optimization. Here's a simple way to think about it. We did $9.9 billion of revenue last year. So let's round that to $10 billion for really simple numbers. All we have to do is increase our nights booked by 100 basis points, and that's $100 million of revenue. And if we can increase $100 million of revenue, it'd be $100 million of very like high-margin revenue because we're converting presumably traffic we already have on the website.

And so there's a number of things we're doing on product compensation to increase conversion rate. One of the big things, as you noticed, is I'm flexible, here's a simple way to think about it. We are never close to sold out in Airbnb. If we can just point demand where we have supply by getting people to be more flexible off their dates or a little more flexible off their radius or the location, that'd be massive.

We also made some optimization to get more people to download our app. And now we are very typically a top 50 application in the United States and now 55% of our bookings are now on a native application. So those are some of things that non-profit [ph] product limitation.

The last thing I'll talk about is reliability. We launched Guest Favorites. Guest Favorites, the reason we launched this is for every person who stays in a hotel, 9 people stay in an Airbnb - sorry, for every person who stays in Airbnb, 9 people stay in a hotel. What if we could get just one of those people who stays in a hotel to stay in an Airbnb? We would quite literally double the size of our business.

So when you ask people book hotels, why they don't book Airbnbs, there's two reasons. One, well, it's habitual. They've always booked hotels. And the other is they are comforted by the reliability, the consistency of the hotel experience. And we asked, what if we had a product that was as consistent as a hotel from a quality standpoint, but had all the unique advantage of the Airbnb? It was more affordable, it was more unique with more character, and it was better equipped.

And that's exactly what Guest Favorites are. They're 2 million of the best listings on Airbnb based on rating, review and reliability data on 500 million trips in Airbnb. Since we launched that product in November, we are seeing a shift in bookings towards Guest Favorites. That's of course good because number one, they get fewer customer service contacts, so customer service costs go down, they have this higher five star rating trips, so we have better repeat bookings. And we think this will attract people to Airbnb that never considered us before.

So those are just some of the things we're doing. The last thing I'll say before I hand it over to Dave, is that, that's just what we did last year. We had 200 - about 200 upgrades last year, 430 in the last 3 years, but we are just getting started, and we're going to have significantly larger upgrades this year. Dave?

Yes. In terms of headcount, we grew headcount last year about 1%. We're planning to grow at maybe slightly more than that. It could be kind of mid single digits, low to mid single-digit percent. As kind of Ellie mentioned, I think we will see depending on what our product development needs are, but it's not going to be above overall kind of revenue growth.

And then in terms of marketing, margin, we're going to keep marketing costs as a percentage of revenue largely the same as what it was in 2023. In some ways, we probably could see additional leverage on marketing, but what we've seen is such great success with our brand marketing efforts in our core markets. We're actually expanding to 20 countries around the world. So that's already included in this. And then we'll see as there are other investments to support the newer business areas. But to the extent that there may be any incremental marketing, it's not going to be a materially larger percentage of revenue than it was last year.

And I'll just add that, we have a lot of competition for people choosing places to stay. Our main competition are hotels, first of all. And we're so much smaller than hotels. For everyone who stays at Airbnb, nine people stay in a hotel. So I think the bigger opportunities for us to take market share, because again, all you need is one of them to come to Airbnb and we've now doubled the size of our business.

I think we are only scratching the surface. We grew in every region. We maintained or grew share in every region. As Dave said, we have - we are the brand in this category, a noun and a verb used all over the world. We are the only ones with a custom built platform. And we're going to continue to strengthen our advantages, including like Guest Favorites, the only one to offer that. The only one to offer custom built tools on the host side. So the best game we can play is to continue to focus on executing ruthlessly. And if we continue to do that, we're going to continue to take share.

Yes. So why don't I just start, Jed, I'm talking about supply growth, and I'll let Dave answer the rest. I believe in the long run that supply growth is a long-term indication of growth in Airbnb. And it's been healthy since we started the company, but you'll know that during the pandemic, one of the biggest questions I got asked when supply growth stops is how we're going to restart supply growth.

The great thing about our supply growth is that most of it comes organic to us. In fact, 36% of our new hosts are prior guests. That's the highest that number it's ever been. And the reason people host is because their friends typically tell them about it.

The last year - actually, the year before, we actually began and we really put the throttle on it last year, a new strategic priority to mainstream hosting. And we did a few things. We really focused on making hosting easy to get started and increasing awareness.

Now one of the reasons that we're so excited about the growth being 18%, and we hope it grows even faster is, as you know, the more supply you have, the more pricing pressure you relieve on the inventory. So when you're supply constrained, what you typically see is prices go up and prices go up, nice growth is typically diminished.

So we believe that, again, the total addressable market for Airbnb space is every single person with very few exceptions who stay in a hotel. If we can get the right supply at the right price, then we believe we can capture that demand and build a company significantly larger. Additionally, by having a surplus of supply, we think that that will allow us to have even tighter quality control.

So to answer your question, we do think that the healthy supply growth of 18% could be a great leading indicator down the road of where demand could be, and we'd love your supply to grow even faster.

Yes. I think that's what you'll continue to see is that we're being very judicious about putting small teams on the ground in each of these locales, making sure that we have the full funnel marketing approach working well, establishing what product adjustments might be unique to a specific location that's helpful.

And then we're going to - we're working down our list. What's the largest opportunity, what do we have the capabilities for and how do we kind of do it. None of these are perishable things. We're just kind of working our way down kind of a prioritized list of our capabilities. And then this sets us up well as we expand beyond on the core to make sure that we have strong, established base of business to kind of build from.

Yeah, booking window has been relatively stable. We've kind of come back to a little bit more normal booking windows over time. So there's actually not a lot to say on it. It's pretty consistent now globally as things are returning to a more normal state.

Yeah. Hey, Bernie, I think that Airbnb can go far beyond travel in the coming years, but I think we're going to start with our core. So I think what we're going to do is start with travel and then down the road we can move beyond travel.

So you should start by seeing us do the things that are the most logical extensions of what we already provide, and then we will move further and further out from our core as the things we launch are successful. And then what was the second part of the question?

Yeah, I mean, I'll just highlight a few things in addition to what Dave said. First of all, our traffic and our top of funnel results are really good. And one of the reasons why is, we've, number one, we're having a really successful advertising campaign. As you know, we have a very different approach to marketing than our competitors. We're not really typically trying to buy customers through foreign [ph] marketing.

We generally, as Dave mentioned, have a full funnel approach and we think of advertising more as education than sales. And one of the things we noticed was that we want to educate people about how there are some trips that are really just always better in Airbnb. If you're staying with - if you're traveling your family, if you're traveling your groups, be able to share a house and have your own bedroom and save money, rather than getting separate hotel rooms or crammed in one hotel room, makes complete logical sense.

And so we have this campaign running, it's called Get an Airbnb, it's the most successful digital advertising campaign we've ever done, and it's now running on television. We also are tapping into the biggest moments of pop culture. Last year, for example, the Barbie movie came out, and we partnered with Mattel to turn a mansion and Malibu into Malibu Barbie DreamHouse.

That became a phenomenon on social media, and it got more press, more articles than our IPO. In fact, three times as many articles were written about the Barbie Malibu DreamHouse as Airbnb's IPO, just to give you a sense.

So we have a lot of traffic coming to Airbnb. We're going to continue to hopefully stay relevant within culture. And if we can then convert that traffic, as Dave said, through product optimization, reliability efforts, improve customer service, then I think there's a lot of opportunities. And again, we have an entire road map where you can imagine hundreds of basis points of conversion of a nice growth increase through some of these efforts. So we've got a pretty big arsenal of levers.

Yes. We continue to see strength in our growth in our more established markets, North America and Europe. But we're actually seeing still stronger growth relatively in Latin America and Asia. And so any kind of moderation is still just coming off of high overall growth. I mean I'd say APAC we're really encouraged to see China outbound, gathering kind of additional momentum that we expect by the end of the year, China outbound travel should be above 2019 levels.

So I'd say that we continue to see great strength and this international expansion playbook that we have, I think it's going to continue to be a tailwind for growth, especially in Latin America and Asia for the rest of this year.

Yes, absolutely. So I think one of the great things about Airbnb is that most of our innovation in most of our business is developed organically. And that just becomes from our DNA. Like Airbnb was started by three product and then just product, people and engineers, two designers an engineer. And we created Joni [ph] and I created this company from nothing with really no capital whatsoever to speak of. So I think build and the organic growth is in our DNA, and it's always going to be our predisposition.

That being said, with the scale that we have, the scale we have, having nearly 2 billion guest arrivals and more than $70 billion GBV, that is a huge asset to be able to partner. And a number of brands have reached out to us telling us they want to partner Airbnb not just because of the traffic we have, but also because of the strength of our brand. So we think that there's a myriad of opportunities of partnerships.

Now on in the buy [ph] we're going to be -- we're going to have a very high bar for ROI for acquisitions. We've done a number of acquisitions in the past. Some have been very successful. And with our free cash flow, we have generated $3.8 billion of free cash flow. We absolutely have the cash and obviously, the currency of our stock to make acquisitions, but we're going to be very, very thoughtful and there's always going to be build, then partner then buy probably in that order of prioritization.

Mark, yes, why don't I - when we do, I'll do Asia and then Dave will take, take rate. So I mean no doubt that Internet companies have struggled in Asia. I think in particular, they struggled in China, and we do not have an inbound business, the domestic business in China any longer. Although obviously, there's a lot of stories of companies doing well in other countries in Asia.

So let me just talk about why I think Airbnb is unique. The reason why, as you know, is that we're a global travel network. And so 44% of our nights booked were cross-border. And if you're in Japan and you want to stay in Germany and you don't want to stay in a hotel, then where are you going to go? You're going to want to go to a global platform, probably not a Japanese platform. And the reason is you're going to Germany from Japan, and you're not going to use a Japanese platform because the Japanese platform would have to get German homes on that platform, and that is probably not going to happen.

And so we think this is a global market. There's a global network, not a regional network. And one of the things we've noticed is that Airbnb seems to work about as well in every single country that we've entered. Now there's a big question about Latin America, for example. We were massively underpenetrated. And there was a question, well, this is an emerging market, will Latin America work well? And then, of course, Brazil, Ecuador, Peru have grown very, very quickly. And we - and also I just say the success of Korea has been phenomenal.

And the other thing is that the population in Asia is generally younger than the population in Europe and North America. And the other thing we know is that young people tend to gravitate more to Airbnb than older cohorts. So I just think the amount of people that are mobile applications that are young, where Airbnb [ph] they're not predisposed to book a hotel, the strength of network effects and the fact that there's going to be really strong cross-border travel in Airbnb is a cross-border network are all the reasons why I think Asia will be no different than any other region in Airbnb. It might just take a little bit more time. Dave?

All right. Well, thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Just to recap, revenue was another incredibly strong quarter. Revenue was $2.2 billion, 70% higher. Adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA were both to Q4 records and our trailing 12-month free cash flow of $2.8 billion. And this, of course, represents a free cash flow margin at 39%.

I'm really proud of what we've been able to accomplish this past year, and there's more to come. 2024 marks the beginning of a new chapter for Airbnb, and I look forward to sharing more throughout the year. Thank you all very much.