Brian Bair
Offerpad Solutions Inc. (OPAD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Nick, it's Brian. The -- on the 500, that's obviously the goal we're looking at. We are very focused on, obviously, the macro world out there and the dynamics of controlling what we can control. And so as we're watching interest rates and what's happening out there, we're focused on buying the type of homes we want in our buy box. And so if the opportunity is there, we're going to do it. We're more focused on property performance right now than, I would say, volume of the homes we're buying. And so that's our focus.

Yes. I'll jump in and then I'll have James comment on the breakdown there. But the one thing true to the adversity that we felt in the real estate over the last 1.5 years, overall, I'd tell you, the win that we've had is we've had a lot of time to focus on these asset-light products. And if you remember, I've said I wanted to be a solution center for everyone for a long time. And we are really getting some headway with a lot of this.

And what we've been really focused on is cutting costs and focus on what we can do really well. And one of those is a lot like specifically on the renovate side, the direct plus side that we'll talk a little bit more about and then allowing others to plug in to Offerpad some of our services.

And so I think and maybe I'll say that the sky is the limit of what we can do on the asset-light stuff there. But I think we are just getting started, again, in this environment. As we'll start buying more homes as the market starts to normalize, you'll see those light asset lines start to grow even more and more on, I think, across the board, but I'll let James talk a little bit more about that.

And one thing I'll add there, just with the Direct Plus business is that the cash offer business, it's really in -- you almost have to segment out into two worlds. It's -- one of them is the cash offer business of the homes that we buy. So the customer gets a cash offer and Offerpad is going to balance sheet that home.

And then the other section is the Direct Plus business, which the customer gets a cash offer, they get the Offerpad experience up until closing, Offerpad doesn't close that home. One of our Direct Plus partners will close that home. And so two significant paths to that. And like I said, I feel we can make it headway in both and as they continue to grow.

Thanks.

Sorry, the last part, Dae -- the last part cut off, what we have to see on the what side? Sorry, I couldn't hear the last.

Yes. So a lot of -- everything we do is assumption-based, right, of what the market is doing, each -- very market-specific product line specific just in general. And I've mentioned before in different calls, that's -- to ramp up, that's -- to ramp up volume is one of the easiest metrics we can ramp up. I would think more than anything else is the volatility in the mortgage rates. I mean, for example, in the fourth quarter, we saw rates hit almost -- well, they hit over eight and then we saw they've been down to like the high 6s in November and December.

And so more consistency in the mortgage rates would definitely -- what's interesting is, just when we talk about the macro world, you have sellers that they're obviously locked into their current mortgage and equity of the lock-in there. The lock-in effect. But then you have buyers on the affordability side. And so both of them desperately want something to happen. You can just see it.

And as interest rates drop down below 7, you can see sellers willing to sell and then -- and you can see buyers that now want to buy. And so that right now is so sensitive. So we're watching that really closely. Just affordability overall will tie into that.

So everything is very interest rate-driven right now and just getting more consistency there. And again, it doesn't need to go back down to where they were by any means. But it's just more consistency, so you can see the affordability and sellers willing to sell there, too.

Yes. Sure. I'll go high level and let James get into some of the details there. But yes, from a high level, one thing that we want to accomplish is get our products and services out to more people as fast as -- the faster we can and to scale it as fast, and especially some of the asset-light services. So we've always been focused on giving the customer or the consumer a choice.

They come to us to get a cash offer or they could potentially list their home and -- whatever works best for them at that moment. And so be able to scale using agents to help us scale those programs, as we mentioned in the prepared remarks, that's been scaling fairly quickly. And as we see even in this market and the landscape that even scale even faster is giving agents the ability to plug into a lot of our services.

And that includes our renovation services, so they can basically use our renovation teams to upgrade or upscale a home that they need, but also some of the others are sold in our 60 program that the ability to have the cash offer, been able to list a house on the open market with knowing that they have the insurance of the cash offer in the backdrop. So the agents are, like I said, we're scaling that fairly quickly.

And from when we launched it, we're getting really good feedback, and it's scaling very, very fast in some of the zones, the things that we're doing. But again, we want to find a solution for everybody, and that consumes the -- no matter -- we want to meet the customer where they're at, whether they want to use an agent directly, we want to be there for them. But I'll let James talk a little bit about the economics side.

All right. Just really proud of the team and getting the scale and getting these asset-light services the way up and going into 2024. But I appreciate everyone and all their hard work, and thank you for everyone for joining the call.