Brian Lane
Comfort Systems USA, Inc. (FIX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

We're really happy with the modular business.

Yes. So if you look at this overall, I just want to comment on the margin performance we've been getting over really since 2016. We've been pretty consistently having 18% to 20%, leave the amortization aside for a minute. So I am personally thrilled with the level of performance we're getting and executing our work. I mean if I was running this work, I'd be really happy myself. So I consider that we'll keep going. If you want to add on...

No. I mean if I'm excluding what Bill just went through, just in terms of purely operational, I think we'll be pretty consistent at the gross margin level that we've been at. They'll fluctuate up and down quarter-to-quarter, but I think we'll be in that 18% to 20% range for sure.

Well, in terms of our capacity, we're in good shape right now. The backlog, the probably a little bit bigger. So we're in good shape for this year for sure. winning a fair amount of work about 30% of our backlogs into 2025. So in terms of the work we have, obviously, we're spending a lot of time making sure we can execute properly, selecting the right work, et cetera. But in terms of capacity, the workload we have, the workload we see, we're in good shape right now.
I'll go first, and Bill can comment. But data center demand is still strong. Everything you read are here, Adam. It's still have a lot of legs to it. So right now, we see no letup in the stuff we're looking at are the opportunities presenting themselves. And I think it's going to be good for a number of years.

I mean, you get to see what the demand is and see what kind of commitments we get from our customers. We've got the three up and running now. So I mean, we'll see how I think it plays out, which customers would want us to do it.

Yes, we're in really good shape on backlog this year for sure. You can still grow it because projects are getting little longer. But back to what Bill just said, if the works, good with our good customers, we're going to see what we can do to fill it in, but there's still plenty of stuff to look at, Adam, no shortage of opportunities.

And also, right, our service business is up to $1 billion. So we continue to grow that with higher margins, too, which is helping our margins as well, Josh.

Well, we're seeing still a tremendous amount of activity. We're being very selective, as we've spoken about and it's heavy and a lot of manufacturing, a lot of industrial, a lot of technology. We're also seeing education backlog and that is the highest it's been in years, particularly university work, some K through 12 and also health care, medical, new build hospitals we're seeing come up. So this is a wide range of opportunities in addition to the food, life sciences, pharma, et cetera, that we've talked about. So pretty broad range, Josh.

Thanks.

Alright. Thank you, Jean.

20%.

18%, yes.

Yes. In terms of backlog on the markets, I don't have any concerns, of course, commercial in terms of office buildings. You obviously not seeing a new lot of office buildings. We just have a lot of service, small project work. The exception in Dallas, in the Wall Street Journal earlier this week, Dallas is still pretty busy on office buildings. But in terms of the sectors themselves, I don't have any real concern at all.

In terms of our labor capacity, we're hiring all in time. We increased our workforce in the fourth quarter as well. We brought a couple of new companies on that brings us more resources to -- sorry and then we have a temporary labor organization that we have. So in terms of capacity in the backlog, we feel pretty confident about us doing the work and doing the work that we like and that we can do well.

But they're really good companies.

All right. Thanks, Justin. I really want to, once again, thanks all of our amazing employees. It's a great industry, and we really appreciate everything everybody does in this organization. Thank you all for your interest in Comfort Systems. I hope everyone has a terrific weekend and look forward to everybody soon. seeing everybody soon. Thank you.