Brian Armstrong
Coinbase Global, Inc. (COIN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So I'll focus on the ETF question since there's been a lot of buzz around it. And we've always said that ETFs would be a win-win for Coinbase, and we're starting to see that play out on our platform. So in preparation for this launch, we won eight of 11 Spot Bitcoin custody mandates from issuers. And today, Coinbase custody is about 90% of the 36 billion in Bitcoin ETF assets as a result. So across the entire industry, we've seen over $4 billion of net inflows into Spot Bitcoin ETFs.

The Bitcoin ETFs are breaking records. And when gold launched in November 2004, it took one year to get to $3 billion. These ETFs did that in a few weeks. And so this is a really an incredible start. This is really just the beginning. We're now starting to see some of these issuers file for Ethereum ETFs, for example. We've been named as the custodian in five of the eight ETH ETF applications. And custody isn't really the only way that we're monetizing this. We're also helping with trading via Prime. We're helping with financing for trade settlement. So there's other opportunities to generate revenue here.

For anybody worried about cannibalization, ETFs have been positive for the industry, which has been additive for Coinbase. We're seeing elevated engagement and net inflows across both retail and institutional Q1 to date. What's even more important is that every institution is now starting to hold crypto, the asset class will be a standard part of every diversified portfolio. The financial system is officially adopting crypto. This is really good, and Coinbase is the most trusted partner here.

Yes, I can take that one. Thanks, Ken. So as you mentioned, payments is one of the areas that we're exploring in 2024 around utility, and I'm pretty excited about that as an opportunity. I mentioned in the opening comments that last year, we did announce that you can send USD Coin on Base and instantly anywhere in the world for free. So the cost and the transaction fees and the confirmation times are really starting to come down. And the more you reduce friction, the more payments you'll start to see. And so there's a variety of different use cases for payments. Payments is a huge industry.

Some of this you can look at in emerging markets where people have local currencies where there's high inflation and so the dollar has a great brand there. People want access to the dollar. So they're able to do that now with Stablecoins and USD Coin kind of gives them a trusted option that's regulated and the partner we have with Circle. They've been a great partner. They're a great issuer of that. So emerging markets, demand for the dollars as an inflation hedge, I think is a starting point.

And then once people have those dollars, they're going to want to start to pay for things in their ordinary course of the day with those instead of the local currency where they're experiencing that inflation. So some of that is cross-border. Like you said, there's people in some of these markets they're ordering goods and services for their shops from Asia or Europe to some of it's cross-border, some of it's for B2B, some of it's remittances. Some of it is also – they just want to earn yield on their assets. Like as an inflation hedge is a great start, but if you can earn yield like in some of these like with USD Coin, that's even better. So there's sort of that emerging market use case.

And then we've also dabbled in payments kind of in other areas like you mentioned Coinbase Commerce launched this on-chain payment protocol, which is really innovative. We're trying to make crypto the simplest, easiest way to pay on the Internet. Even Coinbase Card has allowed people to spend their crypto and USD Coin anywhere that Visa is accepted. So there's a lot of different use cases.

I mean, if you kind of want to zoom out, you asked about what's the longer-term vision here. I mean we really want to update the financial system, right? We want to have crypto play a larger and larger role in the global financial system, have it be a greater and greater percentage of GDP over time. And so cryptos really started off being this asset class people trade, but we now need to look at how it can improve these other areas.

And payments is a huge one. And as we've seen Layer 2 solutions come online like Base, I think the time is now to start to invest in that. You asked about monetization also. I mean, look, this is all really early stage. So we don't have any kind of forecast on it or anything like that. But there's opportunities for us here to monetize via Base, also via USD Coin, which you can see pieces of in our financials today.

So that's all long-term. I think if we can drive a deal use case with crypto, even if people don't even think of it as crypto, they're just, oh, the fees are lower. My money arrives instantly instead of waiting three business days. They may not even know it's crypto underneath, but that's how we get 1 billion people eventually benefiting from this. And I think there'll be a lot of opportunities to monetize that over time.

I can start off on derivatives and then Alesia, maybe I'll turn it to you on some of the take rate question. So thanks for tracking. We have been hitting daily all-time highs on our international exchange which has been really great. It's still early days, just to be clear, but the market, I think, has really demonstrated they want to see a trusted counterparty here built in a compliant way. And Coinbase is really the first company they've seen come along that fits that definition. So we've been making a lot of progress on our International derivatives exchange.

We added 11 new markets in Q4. We're now up to about 70% of global TAM. We announced that we're acquiring a MiFID license that will help us unlock derivatives in about 20 additional EU member states. We've been adding new product features like 10x leverage. We did that in Q4. I think we've had about – it's about $16 billion in notional volume traded on international exchange in Q4. So it's been really good progress on that.

Same thing, by the way, for Coinbase financial markets in the U.S., we got license to trade U.S. futures, which has been really great. And so, yes, I think our daily milestone that we just surpassed actually today, it was $700 million in a 24-hour period that was on the international exchange. So really great early start. I think that clients are going to continue to want to prefer a trusted counterparty that's following the rules. Coinbase is the brand that can help them do that. And derivatives trading is actually about 75% of all crypto trading by volume at least. The take rate is lower on it, but it is the majority of volume. And so I'm just really glad that we're now starting to build our business in that area. Alesia, anything you want to add on take rates?

Yes. Sorry, I just want to add. I mean, just a reminder, the entire industry, we've seen about $4 billion of net inflows since the Bitcoin ETFs launched. I think that's really additive. The thing to remember here is we want crypto to really update the global financial system. So that means we need to get it integrated into more and more parts of the financial system. Every time that, that happens, we're sitting here cheering for it. We want fees to come down and make it lower friction for people to get into crypto through all kinds of different vehicles. ETFs are a massive way to get more capital to come in. So far, we have not seen any cannibalization. As Alesia said, it's been additive for Coinbase, and we're seeing elevated engagement and net inflows on both retail and institutional Q1 to date.

So in my view, the ETFs are just a totally positive thing. And the more institutions that kind of get their feet wet with crypto, whether it's through an ETF or any other way, the better because they're eventually going to be using it in other ways, holding it on their balance sheet, paying their vendors, doing payroll. We want crypto to power more and more of global GDP. And we've got to get this happening through every opportunity we can. So ETFs are incredibly positive, I think, for our business.