Brian Chambers
Owens Corning (OC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Joe.

Sure. Thanks. Our Roofing team has just done an incredible work to strengthen the performance of our Roofing business, and you saw that in results in the quarter and full year. And we were getting a lot of questions kind of throughout last year as we saw the margins increasing around the durability of the margins. And I said at that time that we were making structural improvements to the business that we felt was increasing the durability of our margins. And then some of that was going to be tied to a strong market. And we felt like it was important to start this year by updating the guide and moving that up from our approximately 20% that we've been working with for the last several years to our mid 20% on average guide.

So when we look at the structural changes we've made in the business, they really come across a few key areas, in addition to our really strong contractor pull-through demand network that we've created, and it's really a robust demand network. I think a couple of the changes that are more durable around the -- is one around our operating efficiencies overall and our overall operational performance in the business.

So we've continued to invest, as Todd talked about, around some debottlenecking and increasing our land capacity. So we are getting great efficiencies out of our production lines through productivity, through automation, through process technologies. And that's opening up and giving us great operating leverage on our assets that is ongoing and very durable.

We are looking and have made a lot of plant optimization moves within our components business. A few years back, we shipped a lot of production out of China to India. I've talked about the exit of our packaging business. So we continue to look at manufacturing optimization, plan optimization efforts. So that's a big focus around our operational efficiencies in the space.

The other big area has been around the growth and expansion of our Roofing components business. So we continue to increase the products we can bring to market. And this is tied to our multi-material system sell around roofing, where hip and ridge, starter, ventilation products, all the pieces and parts to install a roof we can now provide and those increase our mix. Those are high margin products. So the expansion of that business has also added to the durability of our overall margin.

So that kind of combined with now a strong market where we are seeing higher volumes that are giving us overall operating leverage good pricing environment. That's really led to the strength of the earnings that we are seeing in the business. But even when you set aside kind of the market dynamics, we feel these structural improvements are going to allow us to maintain these kind of operating margins in the mid 20% on average over time.
Yes. Thanks, Stephen. Let me take these -- some of these pieces, and I may ask Todd to comment as well. So let me first talk about, I guess, the decision around debottlenecking versus capacity or plant expansion. This is how we are expanding capacity in a very capital efficient way. We've got the broadest Roofing network as a manufacturer and we have opportunities within each one of those facilities to debottleneck, to improve line speeds and to increase capacity. And this is something that we talked about a few years ago. You would have heard Gunner speak to around opening up capacity inside our existing network in a very efficient way. And so we've been doing that.

So year-on-year, in '22, we produced a lot more laminates than we did in '21. We did that again last year. We are going to continue to do that. And then we did announce a new laminator that we're adding in our Medina facility that will come onstream mid next year, and that will be another big capacity improvement. So year-on-year, we are producing significantly more laminates, and the total that I would share with you roughly equates to a new four-wide [ph] laminator when we're done with that work by the end of 2025. So over a 3-year time period, we've effectively added laminate capacity to equate to a four-wide [ph] laminator. And again, in a very capital efficient way, leveraging our existing network, leveraging our existing workforce, and we feel that's been a really efficient way to bring new capacity onstream. So that's given us the opportunity to grow as we go forward and continues to position us.

When we think about our share position, while we saw some tough comps here in Q4, Q1, I will take us back to in Q4 of last year, 2020 -- sorry, Q4 2022 and Q1 of last year, we significantly outperformed the market. And I think that's a little bit to your question around our ability to gain share. That was an area where demand for our product remained incredibly strong, and distributors had to continue to buy to rebuild inventory levels. And we saw that result in an outperformance to ARMA shipments in Q4 of '22 and outperformance in Q1 of this year. And on balance through 2023, we finished the share -- or with a share position pretty consistent with our historical average.

So while we are investing for growth, we are investing to add lam capacity. I would say those are probably the two proof points that, to your question on, if the market does slow as we go through the year, we feel that our great contractor model, our great distributor partnerships, our product innovation, all the things we've talked about, is going to result in growth in the business. And we feel good about our position in doing that going forward. So in Insulation, maybe, Todd, I'll have you comment on that.

Yes. Thanks, Mike. So I think the primary drivers that I talked about around operational efficiencies, our growth in our components business, those are bigger pieces of kind of taking the guide up from 20% to 25-ish, in the mid-20s range. So you can see those are going to be big drivers. But you're absolutely right. When we look at our product innovation that's created products that are duration shingle, that carries a high margin on the product. So the more we sell -- that mix shift has been a part of that, both in the shingle side and on the component side that we think is sustainable going forward. And then the overall just value we're bringing, I think, to our contractors as we help them build their businesses.

Certainly, there's a durability of the price realizations we've had around the value we're bringing to a contractor in terms of building their business, a value we are bringing to a distributor with high-quality products, serviced well and the value to the innovation we are bringing in terms of the new product offering. So it gets mixed into that in terms of the commercial capabilities. But I think the durability of this is really going to be on those primary two.

We could also pick up from the mix shift to laminates that we think is sustainable. And the pricing and price value we get for our offering and our services, we think that's durable. I think the incremental is going to be -- there's always a bit of upside when we get stronger market conditions that we've seen now the last couple of years where we get additional volume leverage. But our ability to go gain price relative to inflation to be able to get good value for our products has been strong, and we think that continues as we go forward.

Thanks. Let me start with just an overview kind of on Composites on the reinforcements and then glass reinforcements margin. So we said when we announced this, the glass reinforcements business is about $1.3 billion of the $2.3 billion roughly. So the rest of that you can safely assume is tied to our kind of a nonwovens business, our structural lumber business we talked about. And we said that the EBITDA margins in the business were relatively similar over time on this space.

Now I would say that the margins in our GR business certainly have been more pressured in 2023 relative to our nonwovens business. And so if I just take a step back a little bit more in the nonwovens business, it really is a great business that we've been investing in over the past few years to expand capacity and really build out our capabilities. So it's been key to our Roofing success. We have a vertically integrated model, where we make the hybrid, we make the mat. That has allowed us to design products that are cost-effective and really perform very, very well. So it's been a key part of our Roofing success.

But in addition to that, we also sell nonwoven materials to other roofing manufacturers as well as other building and construction material. So it's an important input material around gypsum, for facer [ph], for polyiso board for commercial roofing applications, in ceiling applications, particularly in Europe, and then in flooring applications. So it really fits well into our building and construction folks and supports our drive to increase in product offering in that space. It's a business that is highly specified. It's primarily all contracts, and it's primarily in North America and Europe. So I think it fits our geographic footprint.

So the business there has generated really good revenue, good earnings, and we saw that continue in 2023. And a little bit on the guide that we are trying to break out to give more visibility. We see good demand as we start the year primarily driven by roofing and our Roofing business and then a positive price/cost mix. So the contracts that we've been able to finalize in our nonwovens business have resulted in some positive pricing. So we see good price/cost as we go forward. So that's going to be the difference in the businesses a little bit, but why it's also so important that we are maintaining that as part of the company going forward.

In terms of our plans for GR, we are just early in the process. So I would say we've not made any conclusions on a sale or spin. That's going to be part of our evaluation. And -- but as we go forward, we are going to -- we'll continue to update you as needed on that progress. But I would say this is -- we are just getting started in it. So it's going to be a few quarters, I think before we can get to some of those conclusions, reach out to some buyers and be able to gauge some interest.

So let me -- I'll start and then I'll ask for a clarifying question on your revenue base. But I'd say on the long-term guide, we certainly guide a quarter at a time. So we've given that guide in the first quarter. But given my comments on the Roofing business overall, we think the first half of the year is going to be very strong. There's a lot of pent-up demand in terms of carryover from storm activity that we see driving really good demand. And again, in that strong of a market, we would expect our margins to perform at a higher level than the mid 20% on average. That was our guide. So I wouldn't say that is a 1 quarter only guide in terms of a higher outlook. I think that could continue as we go into the year on Roofing. And then I just want to maybe a clarifying question on your Roofing revenue question. Was that versus fourth quarter or year-on-year?

Quarter-over-quarter, yes. So again, I'll go back to Q1 of last year, we had a significant outperformance relative to the market overall. So we had very strong volumes. We were shipping everything we could make last year to start the year that continued throughout the year. So a little bit of the revenue growth for us this year is going to be -- we've got a little bit of upside in volumes, but not significant. And then we are seeing a little bit of a headwind for the exit of our packaging business, and that's about $100 million of revenue, and that's pretty ratably across -- evenly spread across all four quarters. So that's impacting us a little bit here in Q1 on the revenue front.

Yes. Overall, I'd say the downtime we took in Q4 was really spread across all the businesses. In Composites, particularly GR, it was tied more to demand balancing and inventory management. I'd say the other parts of the company, we generally take fourth quarter maintenance downtimes to service the assets, and we did that throughout in the space. So we don’t quantify necessarily by facility or by business segment, but I'd say the impact was larger in our Composites business, the glass reinforcements business and then had an impact but less so in Insulation and Roofing. And we think, again, that was tied to just some temporary maintenance.

In terms of how we're running the assets now as we've started the year, Roofing, every facility is back up and running. Our lines are running full out, producing as much product as we can to service our customers. I'd say the same thing in our Residential Insulation business. Again, we've got those assets up and running and producing at a high-level. Our nonwovens business were back up, so I'd say the one that we continue to balance our downtime and curtailments is going to be in our glass reinforcements business as we continue to just, again, balance production to demand, drive good cash flows in that business. But in our Roofing business, our Residential Insulation business, we are back up and running, and we'll continue to operate those assets full out to service demand.

Right. Thanks, Kathryn. Yes, just to clarify, so our announcement is around strategic alternatives for our glass reinforcements business. So our nonwovens business and the glass melting assets needed for that are going to remain. That would be part of the core of Owens Corning going forward. So just to step back on our glass reinforcements business, and we had this in the announcement on Friday, it's 18 manufacturing facilities as part of that.

So it is something that we can put a defined perimeter around, to answer your question, on separating glass reinforcements from our nonwovens business. So that work is done. So those 18 facilities roughly break out. There are 9 on the glass reinforcements, glass melting facilities. Then we've got about 5 -- we have 5 fabrics facilities that we weave fabrics that are used in wind energy applications. And then we have 4 alloy facilities that will support the bushings and the equipment used in the melting of the glass on our GR plants. So that's a defined perimeter.

The perimeter to make our glass moments is also defined. So there are 2 glass melting facilities that make the fiber that's unique and special for our glass nonwovens production. So those 2 facilities would stay because that would then service the glass fiber to our nonwoven facilities. All those nonwoven facilities would stay. So I think we can separate that and operate those independently as we think about alternatives for the glass reinforcements business.

In terms of your question on how that might impact the other products from a glass nonwovens business, we are going to continue to be able to service all of the building construction material categories that I talked about earlier. So we'll have the ability to still provide that material to gypsum applications, ceiling applications, polyiso, flooring. So that's a part of the permit of the business that we are going to continue to operate and grow and expand.

Yes. Thanks, Phil. So let's talk a little bit about price and mix. So -- and maybe I'll talk pricing. I mentioned this a little bit in our Q1 guide. So overall, for our glass reinforcements business, just as a reminder, it's about two-thirds contract, about one-third is spot. And we have largely completed our contract pricing, and that is going to result with pricing stepping down. Overall, our -- with that completion, we would expect probably mid-single-digit price declines that would roll through in the quarter and continue as we go forward as a result of those contract negotiations.

From a price -- from a spot pricing standpoint, we are actually seeing some stability Q4 into Q1. And so Q1 spot pricing on a year-over-year basis, down probably closer to high single digits. So a big part of that step down versus price on mix is going to be price-related. But we are seeing some headwinds on overall product mix just depending on the geographic makeup of the business overall.

In terms of the mid-single-digit margins for Composites, how that moves up from here, I do think it's generally a low point in terms of volume in the business. And that's something that we would expect as we go through over the next few quarters to see volumes increase, and that will improve our operating leverage quite a bit. We also have taken a number of cost reduction actions in the business, and that should start coming through.

And lastly, we've seen really good manufacturing productivity start to come through, and we think that's going to be additive as we go through from here. So as we step up over the next few quarters, we would expect to see some volume growth, improving our operating leverage. We would expect to see some of the benefits from our cost reduction actions, and we continue to expect to see productivity being an uplift to margins as we go through the rest of the year.

Thanks, Mike. So in terms of volumes in Roofing and components, we expect those to be up modestly, I think, in the quarter. So we do see the ability to produce more shingles and more than first quarter of last year. We also are seeing higher attachment rates on our Roofing component materials that we think continues. But again, against last year's comp, that growth rate is going to be much more moderate than we expect the overall industry to show because we were outperforming in Q4 of last year, but we are going to see some increases. And then again, we see a little bit of a headwind on the packaging exit.

In terms of performance as we go through the year, I'd say we expect that we're going to have another good year in Roofing. The demand trends for Q1, the storm carryover, the underlying contractor demand and remodeling and reroof activity we are seeing in our contractor base would lead us to believe we're on path for another strong year. We expect, as Todd talked about, new construction housing to step up through the year, a smaller part of the Roofing business, but again, another positive demand driver. So we would expect that to continue. It may not be operating at the same levels as last year, which was a historically high storm year off a 10-year average.

We would estimate probably incremental 40% both in storm demand last year versus the historic average. So if that steps back a little bit, I think that gives us opportunities in the market to continue to grow our business. So as we progress through the year, I would think we would get into easier comps on a year-over-year basis relative to our performance. And then if the market slows a bit versus prior year, again, I'll go back to what we saw in Q4 of '22 and Q1 of last year. As the market slow, demand for our products stayed really strong. Distributors had to replenish their inventories of our product. Contractors demanded our product, and we saw good growth and a good share position as a result.

Well, I'd like to thank everyone for making time to join us on today's call and for your ongoing interest in Owens Corning, and we look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter call. Thanks, everyone.