Brian Tierney
FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Shar.

Shar, it's going to be really linear. We're not going to see much volatility. We're getting back to where a normal utility should look like. We're going to be investing in our regulated properties. And obviously, a lot of that recovery is going to come through formula-based rates. So that is -- tends to be linear, about 75% through formula-based rates. And then we're going to be regularly going in for rate cases. And it's just the normal cadence of how a utility operates. You invest, you operate, you recover and you finance. And that's the cadence that we're going to be on.

Yes. I think we have enough cushion for sure. And we're seeing things like the PJM Open Window 3 that we responded to, where the team worked really hard to put together a solution in a short period of time, and we were able to garner over $800 million of incremental investment through that opportunity.

I see more of those coming. They're not in our capital plan yet, and they won't be until we win the projects. But there's significant amounts of new CapEx that's not in our plan that I anticipate will see coming down, and we'll be able to fund that through a combination of cash flow from operations, debt equity issuances and things like the $3.5 billion of equity that's going to come into our system in 2024 from the transaction. So we're ready to fund these incremental CapEx, the way a traditional utility would without having to see much access for equity from the equity capital markets.

No, no. I would just reiterate kind of what you said. I mean had we not done the transactions over the course of the last couple of years, raising $7 billion of equity capital, really at the equivalent of a 36 times PE multiple, we wouldn't be in this position today. I think a lot of it depends on formula rate CapEx versus base capital. I think if you look at some of our utility capital structures, they have equity layers that are a little bit better than our targeted equity capital structure. So we have some flexibility in the plan.

Yes. No surprises at all, Shar. Status quo, they ask questions, we answer them, and nothing new with regards to the company from what was disclosed in the deferred prosecution agreement.

Thanks, Shar.

Thank you, Gregg.

We're in a different place, Gregg. The work that's been done on the balance sheet since 2021, as we laid out, has been truly transformative. For the first time, I think, in the company's history, we're not distracted by M&A. We don't have a competitive arm. We have a strong balance sheet with the opportunity to invest in our regulated, mostly wires companies that, to be honest with, we got behind in the capital investment in them. And that's why our rate base is lower. It's why our rates are lower. And it's why we have some significant opportunities with regards to reliability and the customer experience.

We are here for the first time, ready, willing and able to put the money into our regulated properties for the benefit of our customers, and it is a significant difference from what you've seen in the past.

Thank you.

Yes. So we think the increases will be in the single-digit for most of the time for the five-year period. If you look Nicholas, at Page 23 in the fact book that we put out there in New Jersey through West Virginia and Maryland, our rates are 22% to 30% below our in-state peers. And in Ohio, they're -- and in Pennsylvania, they're 3% to 7% below our in-state peers.

A lot of that in New Jersey, West Virginia, Maryland represents opportunities to invest in the rate base and improve the customer experience. But also more importantly, if you look at things like customer affordability between 1997 and 2022, our customers' electricity share of wallet has decreased to 1.3% from 1.6%.

So, when we talk to smart people who cover our industry and they say that you need to start getting concerned when you're at 4% to 5% share of your customers' wallet, we're nowhere near that. And electricity, whether it's for home heating, whether it's to power your vehicles or whatever, still represents a considerable value for the customers in the states we serve.

Yes. As we talked about, the next couple of years will be very important as we true-up our state-regulated returns to more of their allowed return. So, I think about Ohio and Pennsylvania, which will be next to file. Ohio right now is earning sub-6%. Some of that is weather-driven, but we do see an opportunity to true-up the return there.

And then in Pennsylvania, although it's above 9%, a lot of the O&M that's coming back in the system will be in our Pennsylvania company, which will reduce the ROE there. And we use a projected test year for our Pennsylvania company. So, you'll be adding about $1 billion of rate base between where it is today and the filing that we'll make later this year.

So, like capital projects and other things, we don't want to put forecast growth in until we're seeing it and we're seeing it at about that 1% range. As things develop and go forward, like you've seen data centers in PJM and the like, we think we're going to get that here. You're seeing it to the south of us, you're seeing it to the east of us, and I think that migration will continue into our service territory. In fact, we fully believe it will. And then as you see other things like electrification of transportation and the like, I think there is some upside in the loan growth, we just don't want to bake it into the plan until we're seeing it in our confident that it's coming.

Thank you, Nicolas. You too.

Yeah. So, we're working those regulatory processes, and you're going to see that from us. You're going to see certain things are in flight and certain things are coming, and look for us to be making progress on what's in flight, and that will foreshadow what's coming down the road.

ESP V and Grid Mod II, we're working through those regulatory processes. I was reviewing last night, and we'll file today, our post-hearing briefing on ESP V, and we expect a constructive outcome there as we do in Grid Mod II. But regulatory tends not to move very fast. These are months long processes. And we think that the processes in both ESP V and Grid Mod II are constructive. And we anticipate it will be the same, but an actually longer process for our base rate case, which we'll file in April of this year. So we're just moving along. Things are happening as they should, and we're getting these constructive outcomes.

Yeah. So we are at a different place than our peers. Announcing the increase that we did in September, the first in over three years, it's time to start rewarding our shareholders with dividend increases. And we felt that now is the time to do that. So September and anticipated in 2024, increases there as well. It's time for us to treat our shareholders the way utility companies traditionally do. And we're in a place where we're going to be growing the dividend with earnings over time. Our balance sheet is healthy. We don't have the equity needs that some of our peers do because of the transactions that we've done over the last three years or so. So we're in a different place and where some of our peers are, and we think it's a really good place.

Thank you.

Good morning, Jeremy. How are you today?

It's really the things that we mentioned in our remarks. It's going in for base rate cases and updating rate base, updating returns, cost structure, and those things that haven't been done in some time. You know, the three cases, Maryland, New Jersey, and West Virginia that we've just been in, Pennsylvania and Ohio coming up this year, it's a significant amount of updating the regulatory process and recovery, and then increasing, as we've announced today with Energize 365, the CapEx that we're going to be investing in our regulated properties going forward.

So it's the way utility operations should work. And I repeat this over and over again internally. You invest in your properties and your people. You operate safely, reliably, affordably. You go in for recovery. And if you've done invest and operate well, the recovery component goes better when you're in front of our regulators. And then we come before investors and we tell them the story that we put together on those first three components and financing the companies easier as well.

So we're in a place where we're at the beginning of what I call that virtuous cycle and the success that we've had and the rate cases that I discussed in my prepared remarks show that we're getting those fair and constructive outcomes, and we anticipate that going forward in the plan as well. It all holds together as a credible story where we're having success at the beginning point of that.

I think it's important to note that the part that Jon mentioned about pension and Signal Peak decreasing, as they decrease and as the traditional regulatory component of our growth increases, our earnings quality improves, and that happens really, really quickly in our plan. So that's also a benefit. It's not just growing earnings, it's a reduced risk profile as well.

Thanks, Jeremy.

Good morning, Michael.

So I'll say this. A lot of what we talked about is actually CapEx that we're increasing. So it's not directly related to O&M. We recognize there's an O&M tail that's associated with any incremental CapEx, but we're going to be very, very focused on continuous improvement. And it's going to be part of our story that we're going to tell every time we're getting together going forward about how -- what we've been able to do and how we've been able to reduce O&M through continuous improvement. And it's just going to be part of our story going forward like it was in 2023. And you see well-functioning premium utilities are always talking about what they're doing in that regard. And we've had success here in our recent past doing that, and we anticipate that going forward.

Thank you, Michael.

Good morning.

Thank you for the question, Angie. We absolutely do. And you're right, being mostly a wires company, certainly in four of our five states. We don't have as much of the generation opportunity. But I mentioned in my remarks, or in answer to an earlier question, the opportunity that we had associated with the PJM Open Window 3 for incremental transmission investment over $800 million.

I had the pleasure of going out to our Maryland service territory late last year and got to go see what's going on at that quantum loophole data center development, it is unbelievable what's going on out there. They are recreating something that's on the scale of the data center footprint in Northern Virginia, out kind of in the hills of Western Maryland. And it's at a site of a former aluminum smelter out there. So you have these high-voltage transmission lines that go and just stop in the middle of space where the smelter used to be and where they're investing, they're turning dirt, they're moving ground right now, to build one of the largest data center complexes in the world.

So we're seeing it in Maryland. It's going to be coming to Pennsylvania, in Ohio for us as well, and we're hopeful for New Jersey and West Virginia over time. So, it's coming, and it's real, and it does create incremental investment opportunities for us.

So it's a good question, Angie. I think we've already seen some of that associated with things like the war in Ukraine and the like. And we saw that in some of the polar prices that we have when we went out for auctions during the period when we thought prices were going to be really, really high because of what's going on in Europe. And some of those price spikes went through to our customers, really in Ohio, beginning like the day I started on June 1 of last year.

So we saw some of those price spikes go through to customer rates, and now they're coming off. As John mentioned earlier, we're having auctions that are printing lower prices and those lower prices are passing through to our customers. So I don't see that as being a big concern. There are some things that are moderating that impact. And again, our prices are so low. The share of wallet is so low for us that electricity still represents a significant value to customers in all five of our states.

Thank you, Angie.

Good morning Paul.

Look, we're always open to the settlement option and think that's always preferable. If we're going to go to hearing like we have in ESP 5, we're okay with that. We think we'll get positive outcomes.

And in any regard, Paul, the settlement discussions that we have start to frame people's positions for where they'll be at the table at a hearing. And so we view it as being a constructive process even if we have to go to hearing.

Thank you, Paul. Thanks. You too.

Thanks David.

Good morning Sophie.
Yes. Thank you for the question, Sophie. We are really pleased with the shape of the balance sheet at this point. We're going to get the incremental $3.5 billion in the door in 2024, most of that coming in March of this year anticipated with the Brookfield transaction, that caps off what's a total of about a $7 billion raise over the last three years. That work has been intentional and purposeful by the Board and the management team even before I got here, for sure, to strengthen that balance sheet. So we'd be in the position that we are today to be able to invest the way that we've laid out for you today in our regulated properties.

We anticipate by the end of 2024 being at 2024 of being at a 14% to 15% FFO to that range. And we're anticipating rating agency positive actions associated with the strength of our balance sheet. So we're really, really pleased with where we are from a balance sheet strength situation.

So I think more of the same, Anthony, thank you for the question. So we've talked about how we're reorganizing the company about how we're changing the segment reporting to reflect that. I mentioned some of the key hires that we made at the end of 2023, we have six more key hires that we need to make. The five people to run our major businesses and a shared services executive that we're looking for as well.

So as we make progress on that, we'll then have the team ready to help move in the direction that we've laid out for you. And execute against the plan that we've described today. So it's really getting the right people in the right seats to manage the company the way that we've laid out for you and execute against the fantastic plan that we have.

Thank you, Anthony.