Bruce Van Saun
(CFG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Maybe, Brendan, you could talk a little bit about what you expect for private bank lending.

Okay. Great. Don, anything to add on the commercial side?

Great. Peter, did you have another question?

John?

You might add something on wealth, Brendan. I don't know if you want to. We expect continued really strong growth on wealth fees.

Okay, very good.

Okay. Thank you, Peter. Next question.

Yeah. I'll start off here. But I think we have been very, very diligent in kind of looking at staffing levels across all the different activities in the bank and seeking efficiencies. There's always the playbook where if you kind of eliminate your bottom X percent of performers and redistribute some of the work that you can run a little leaner. And so we've gone through that exercise to make sure that we won't be caught short in any areas. We carved out important areas like risk and audit and some of the control areas so they were spared kind of from taking reductions. And then we also carved out the areas that are important investment activities. And so, the rollup of all that, Matt, comes to a relatively modest number, 3.5% of total staff count. But I think we're kind of lean and mean and in good fighting shape as we enter into 2024.

Yeah, I would -- there's a Slide 11, Matt, that lays out a pie chart of the character of the deposits, but DDA and then checking with interest, which are very low costs, roughly 40%, very little term, and most of that in kind of liquid savings and money market with no promotions that are outside the norm of what we're offering to the core franchise.

Hi.

Yeah. So I'll start and then John can then give some more color. So I think that the kind of push that we've seen higher over the course of ’23, that could continue a little bit higher into ‘24. So going from 46, say, to 50 is kind of twofold for the most part. One is that CRE general office is, we're watching the maturity wall and we're on top of all these credits very carefully and we're working them out. And as I said in my opening remarks, a lot of this is fairly predictable. So kind of we can look ahead six months, nine months, we can kind of anticipate where we might have to do some restructurings and where we might take charge-offs. And so I think we have good visibility into that. It's a long process on CRE General Office. I think we'll have this with us all through ‘24 and likely into ‘25 as well. But again, the important thing is, I think we're well-reserved for it, and it's baked into that charge-off run rate. The second area is really just continued normalization on the consumer side, which has been extremely slow and gradual, but we're still slightly better than where we were pre-COVID. And so that will just gently push up as we go forward. And so that would be the other driver. I'd say the good news is that in C&I, we're not really seeing any kind of hotspots and so we feel that we have a pretty good outlook for broad C&I through 2024. On the question of the ACL is, this year we've been consistently building each quarter. And if you get to the scenario where there's likely a soft landing or a very shallow recession, we've put away enough reserves that I think we will be able to start to draw that down. And so time will tell on that, but you can already see that we've been starting to kind of reduce the amount of kind of reserve bill from absolute provision over charge-offs in this quarter. It was flat. It was $171 million over $171 million. And so even if charge-offs can pick up a little bit, I think it's likely that you could see the need for provision building from having provisions exceed charge-offs reduce as we go through the year.

I don't know, John, if you want to add any color to that.

Well, at this point, we've given a kind of firm estimate for the first quarter of about $300 million. So we probably, with benefit of 2020 hindsight, could have bought some in the fourth quarter, but water under the bridge for [10/6] (ph). So we have a little above-target capital to kind of play with, if you will, in the first quarter. And then in the first half of the year, we're not going to have much net loan growth. Non-core is going to be running down, and we don't really see the flex in lending coming till the second half in the private banking commercial, as John indicated. So I think the buybacks would tend to be more first half oriented, but a lot can happen over the course of the year. And so I kind of defer from giving a kind of quarterly run rate just to say we'll have a solid print in the first quarter and likely more in a second quarter and then we'll see how the year plays out.

And one last add-on point to your add-on point is I would say I'm really happy to be buying my stock at these levels because we think it's great value.

Good morning.

Yeah, good question. I would say the orientation right now is for backing our organic initiatives. So we've mentioned the private bank and we need to continue to invest there to get that off the ground and make it a big success. And we've been investing in the New York marketplace and certainly to get your brand awareness up is expensive proposition, but we're doing that and that is showing very good results. There are certain businesses like payments that are, I think, going through a lot of change and that change always presents opportunities. And so making sure that we're investing to position ourselves to deliver for clients and continue to gain share and grow that business, those are the things that kind of come top of mind that we're very focused on. I think in terms of acquisitions and our fee-based capabilities, we've made significant investments over time in commercial. And so our M&A size and scale is at quite a good level. So we could be selective there. Don't see anything imminent, but there's possibilities that if there's an industry vertical that makes sense, maybe we could do something there. And then wealth, we've been looking at trying to buy some things. We bought Clarfeld, which turned out to be a fantastic acquisition, but I think the orientation the rest of this year is to really go the lift-out route and to bring teams onto the platform. And so we're hard at work on that to try to scale up Citizens' private wealth. So I would say the franchise is in good shape. There's a lot of initiatives in place that will, I think, have us outperform from a growth standpoint relative to our peers. So I think we can sit back and be selective in terms of deploying capital inorganically.

Yeah, I mean there's always opportunities to look to flex your expense base down. I think we've been pretty hard at it here to get to this level. And I'd say the strategic initiatives offer you some flexibility, but again, if you're looking at the medium term and the longer term to try to scrape to come up with $0.03 to $0.05 or something of that magnitude, if that puts at jeopardy your trajectory on things like private bank, it wouldn't appear to be a really advisable decision to take. So we will always look at that. You know you can trust us to do that. But at this point, we're trying to manage for both near-term delivery but also with an eye towards the medium term and really getting that ROTCE back into the kind of targeted range.

Good morning.

The other aspect to that too is just we've had an inverted curve for a long time. So, when you think about the medium term, presumably we get back to a point where there's a normal yield curve, which also benefits NII.

I think that was something we were talking about in the back half of the year. It affected us in Q3. It affected us in Q4. If you actually look at, I think, one of the dialogues on these calls a way back, are we going to exit the year close to 3% underlying? Well, we actually did do that. The underlying performance on our NIM was quite good. It only dropped 3 basis points, which is showing up well relative to everybody who's reported so far. But that liquidity build, which is neutral to NII, took us down another 9. So we end up exiting closer to [290 than to the 3] (ph). But that liquidity build is kind of done. And so we can just focus on not having that, exercising that from the conversation and just focusing on what the underlying drivers are from here on out.

But in Q3, Ken, then you'd have other things kicking in, like fee growth strong, long growth starting to kick in. And so even though the swap is incremental, forward starting swaps, then I think we'd have to look at the whole dynamic around what we expect to see in the business performance that would allow us to absorb that.

Hey, Gerard.

John, you're answering at the comprehensive company on that MTO page. I think, Gerard, is focused more specifically on the private bank mix. But there, I would say, it will build over time, the fee percentage, as we kind of get the wealth cross-sell. But we should at least be at kind of where we are today in 75%-25%, and then I think there's kind of upside from that over time. And I do think the spread on the private bank assets is very significant today, given the high percentage of low-cost deposits in there. We haven't really seen the loans come on in size yet, but generally capital call lines tend to be priced with a nice return. And I think some of the other business lending and HELOCs and things that will maintain our price discipline and achieve a good spread there as well. So I think if you looked at kind of mature private banking models to have a 20% to 25% return on equity is realistic. I don't know, Brendan, if you want to add to that at all?

Yeah, I would say that for banks of our size, the things that we've focused the most on have been RWA increases to certain lending activities that would potentially reduce the supply, the appetite to lend in those areas because it would erode the economics. So things like mortgage lending to lower income people or credit card lines attracting capital and small business lending attracting more capital. I think those flaws in the proposal have been well chronicled. And even though they don't result in a meaningful RWA inflation for us, I mean, we're stewards of the US economy and we'd like to see those things adjusted. That's been for kind of banks our size. I think the kind of main thing at top of the list, I think the operational risk kind of increases affect the bigger banks more, but nonetheless they seem to have a fairly big bump on the scale. And so that likely, I think, will have a rethink. And maybe those come down to some extent. That would benefit everybody, but probably the big banks more than banks like ourselves.

I think that's a good point that John just raised, Gerard, is that given the strength of our capital position both pre- and post-AOCI, we can absorb any of these regulatory capital impacts, but really not worry about them. Many of our peer banks are still kind of catching up and getting in position and having to kind of hold back on capital distribution which is really not something that we're worried about given this capital strength. So we're more able to kind of play offense and not have to play catch up, which is a good position to be in.

That's right, if you go back to the time of the IPO and the number's been over 100% and under 100% and all over the place, but if you just looked at like a 10-year average, almost 10 years, it's about 75%. And so having enough capital to actually grow your business and lend to customers, you have to certainly work that into the equation. But to the extent, as John stated the priorities, dividend is number one, using capital to support organic growth principally in the loan book and then repurchasing shares. I think if we get our returns into that level, we'll be returning high levels of our earnings back to shareholders both through the dividend and through consistent share repurchases. We should be viewed as a capital return story.

Brendan, you want to take that?

Yeah, I would just answer broadly that we feel good about the multifamily portfolio, its characteristics, its relatively small loan sizes, a lot of fixed term loans, good diversification geographically. And so we, I think, felt that loss content there was going to be quite low. But now, obviously, with rates ticking down, that provides more kind of air in terms of the distance between the debt service coverage ratio and kind of cash flows. And so we feel that it's helpful, but we weren't worried all that much previously. So anyway, that's…

There's a lot of liquidity there.

Okay. Very good.

Okay. Great, Keeley. Thanks again, everyone, for dialing in today. We appreciate your interest and support. Have a great rest of the week. Thank you.