Bruce Caswell
Maximus, Inc. (MMS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Charlie. How are you?

Sure. Good morning, Bert. It’s Bruce.

Sure. As we've been saying, the midpoint of our FY '24 guidance implies a 9.8% margin, but we do have confidence in our ability to get to the 10% to 14% over time. So our three to five year strategy laid out the achievement of that with attention and focus in some very specific areas. So I want to highlight three of those areas, if I can. Two of the pillars of our strategy are technology modernization and future of health and the work associated with those tend to have higher margins generally. So as we get more of that work in the pipeline and convert that to backlog, that will naturally help us achieve our targets. And I would just say our pipeline -- I feel that our pipeline is well weighted in those areas.

The second point would be that we've had some internal programs that we're focusing on that are really focused on ensuring that the company is set up for success over the longer term in the execution of the strategy, and that includes improving efficiencies. I mentioned -- I mentioned during my prepared remarks, the program Maximus Forward and how that's a balance of really rethinking and driving greater efficiencies in the business, but also making investments in our future. And those are important initiatives that we'll continue to execute on and that we would expect to see the benefit from as we roll through FY '24, but really more in FY '25.

Then finally, we're continuing our efforts to properly shape and size it Outside the US portfolio in that segment's business. And we would expect that through our further actions there, we'd see an improvement in total company margins. So number of those things really taken together provide us the confidence that we can move into that range as we mentioned.

Sure. Bert, it's Bruce. I'll take that. You're headed in the right direction with your assumptions, your intuition on that. I mean as you said, what's really underpinning the growth as it presently stands is really strong performance in the VA Medical Disability Exam area as well as redeterminations. And certainly, further surges in volume and activity in those areas could contribute meaningfully to a growth rate higher than the current mid-single digits that we're seeing. At the same time, we're now kind of in the back half of the redetermination window, and that activity will come to an end in kind of the, I'd say, the May, maybe June time frame of 2024. So the likelihood that significant states would at this point, say, well, we need additional health and so forth is diminishing. That said, since the last time we were together on a call, I'm pleased that work in that area has picked up, and in fact, one of our state clients, our current state clients really asked for a great deal of more assistance, and that's reflected in the numbers that we've talked about today. So the underpinning, as you said, is exactly those in kind of those two areas.

But I would highlight two others. You talked about pipeline. We're seeing a nice growth in clinical work in our US Services business as well as a solid pipeline of states that are progressing towards, what are called Modular Medicaid Management Information Systems, or MMIS systems. And that movement towards modularity continues, and in particular, one of the solution areas that we're focused on is Medicaid provider credentialing and enrollment. We provide those services to a number of states presently. There's a healthy pipeline for that type of work. And so we're going to continue to prosecute that, and we would think that further awards and conversion to backlog there could be beneficial to the growth of the company this year and certainly into next year.

And then secondly is really -- you touched on the federal IT modernization area and more specifically, pipeline opportunities related to cloud enablement, cybersecurity, systems management needs and so forth across federal agencies. EDOS is a good example. We're pleased to see initial task order flow coming through EDOS and we feel like we're very well positioned for that work. I should note that we don't contemplate significant contribution presently from EDOS task orders in this fiscal year. So any further task orders or significant wins in that through that vehicle would be meaningful. But also, there are a number of procurements in that technology modernization space that have been held up with the protests that if they were to be resolved in the early quarters of this year and fall in our favor, we could see them contribute more meaningfully as well in FY '24. So it's really -- it's a mix of things. But David, is there anything further that you would add?

Yeah, Charlie, it's Bruce. I'll take that. I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we really -- we feel that, that our work there is not done and it will continue into the coming quarters of this year. And at the same time, as I did on the last call, I wanted to kind of lay out what the characteristics are of the business that we see in the future outside the US. And the example I used in my prepared remarks was really with the United Kingdom and the work that we do there. It's a customer that we probably enter that market easily a decade ago, maybe a little bit more and have over time built a broad and increasingly diversified business in terms of the services that we provide. And while the Department for Work and Pensions remains our single largest customer, I've been pleased with our ability to move work into other departments and agencies. And UK has long been a government that has a very, I think, fair model and for contracting with the private sector. And we have found it to be a good customer to work with. And in fact, over time, have become really known as a strategic supplier in that market. So I think the net-net is that we're comfortable with a smaller footprint, concentrating our efforts in areas like that where we can offer the full range of services and capabilities that we have as a company. And most importantly, quite substantial markets. My latest recollection was that the UK represents a $6 billion addressable market, and it has meaningful growth characteristics that align with the strategic capabilities that we've outlined over our three to five year plan. So hopefully, that gives you a bit more color in terms of our direction of travel.

And Bert, I might also note that -- if I might, the corporate venture capital capability that I talked about in my prepared remarks, we envision those being relatively small bets that we have placed. So they wouldn't rise to the level that it would move that ratio meaningfully. But at the same time, it's an important other, I'd say, smaller element of our capital deployment strategy to increase our innovation and competitive advantage over time.

Well, I guess I'll start where you ended, which is I don't have that concern, but let me come to that through a bit more logic. So to back that, as you know, started in Q2 of FY '23, and then across Q3 and Q4, we saw a pretty meaningful step up in volumes. So today, we're operating at significantly increased capacity, and that's necessitated by the customer, and it's across the system. If you talk to our competitors or listen to them, you'd hear the same thing. The application rate is significant. The inventory levels are significant. In fact, there's publicly available data on the VA website that shows the current cases in inventory, and I think I'm correct in saying that that's a record high, north of $1 million. You can also follow backlog and backlog would be cases in inventory for more than 125 days. I have found it interesting, and I think reflective of the capacity that's been building into the system among the vendors, that backlog obviously is not increasing at the same rate as inventory, but inventory levels remain very high. So that means there's a lot of work that's waiting attention by the VA and then the examination vendors like us that are downstream.

So we see -- as we look at FY '24, the revenue for the contracts that comprise our work in this area, increasing but increasing at a gradual rate over through the course of the year, not a significant spike, if you will, kind of a gradual increase. I want to note that the bulk of the hiring that we feel that we need to do to support that requested capacity has been completed. And other indicators that we look to really say what's beyond FY '24. A good indicator is what's the VA doing themselves. And they've hired a great number of employees, and there's public information out there about their intentions to further grow their headcount. In FY '23, they grew their overall head count by 20%, and they intend to hire an additional 4,000 employees in FY '24. So our view would be that they see the work here and the volumes that are required to get through that work continuing well into the next fiscal year as well. So we're confident in that.

I was just commenting on the incentives and disincentives. I would just say that, that's a program is that the VA obviously had implemented, but has made adjustments to over time. And we feel that that's an area that they'll continue to fine-tune with the vendor community as they go forward. And so we don't have a significant reliance in our estimates for FY '24 on those types of payments.

Sure.


