Bryan Jordan
First Horizon Corporation (FHN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Jon.

Jon, this is Bryan. We feel pretty good about loan growth expectations. We expect to see the balance sheet growth some. We think, as I said in my closing comments, that the economy is still growing consistently with the end of 2023, financial conditions have sort of ebbed and flowed, but I’d say overall, they’re still on the tight side and I expect that loan growth will be more muted this year as a result of that.

Our balance sheet benefits a little bit from the spring-loaded nature. We have some fund up of some commitments, construction, et cetera, that was set up a couple years ago or originated a few years ago and we feel very, very good about the opportunities we’re seeing. We’re being very selective in the opportunities that we choose to put on our balance sheet. So we expect a little bit of modest growth, but we don’t expect it to be outsized given our outlook for the economy.

To sort of go back to comments that Hope was making about the margin, the -- our modeling is just based on taking a forward curve that’s implied in the market. At some point in time, it could have been $238 on December the 31. It’s moving around a whole lot, which tells you there’s a fair amount of uncertainty about what interest rates will actually do.

And the Fed’s comments were interpreted as pretty significant cuts and the market implies. We don’t -- I personally don’t feel that strongly that the Fed’s going to cut rates early in the year. I think rates are going to hold up better or higher than the market’s expectations right now. But I wouldn’t substitute our judgment for the market. So we just use a market curve that ultimately reflects what is a slowing economy and interest rates coming down.

Sure.

Yeah. This -- FHN is, as you just implied, very sensitive to what interest rates do. We did see a little pick up in the fourth quarter of this year. And that was really based on the market reaching a conclusion that the Fed had reached peak rates and that we’re more likely to see rates falling and falling rates tend to be good for our fixed income business.

Our expectations are for somewhat slightly higher average daily revenue next year. We think the markets will continue to stabilize and improve, particularly if the market follows the path that’s sort of laid out in terms of rate cuts next year. We don’t expect that FHN Financial is going to bounce back to 2000 and 2021 levels, but we do expect some modest improvement next year.

Yeah. Yeah. Our expense base at FHN Financial is very heavily tied to revenue. We have a system that is scalable costs with scalable revenue. Our team has done, I think, a fantastic job in controlling costs and even when you reach the lows in the cycle, we still make money in the business, and clearly, it’s not as profitable as it is at better or higher points in the cycle in terms of average daily revenue. But we’ve got the ability to control those costs and we will flex them, and we expect that no matter how low ADR is likely to drop in the near-term, we think we can eke out profitability even at the lowest levels and with some expectation for higher ADRs, we expect to be in a much better position through the course of 2024.

Oh! Okay.

No. Well, yeah, so expense levels are something that we have acknowledged that we have most control over. It’s something that we will stay focused on. We have demonstrated over a number of years the ability to control costs and take out costs out of the organization.

In terms of the levers that are at hand, we think we have a number of levers. And in term, you mentioned specifically technology costs and while we’re investing in technology, we think those investments are important, particularly what I described as deferred maintenance or remedial investments from last year. There were some things that we had to get called out.

So that’s a potential lever, but it’s not one I expect us to pull. Our overall cost consciousness in the effort we have in the organization I think gives us the ability to control costs as we sort of move through an environment if revenues don’t play out the way we expect. So, again, I think that overall cost consciousness will serve us well in 2024.

No. My pleasure and sorry I misinterpreted the first time.

Yeah, Casey. This is Bryan. We have -- at this point, we don’t have an authorization with respect to share repurchases. I expect that that’s one of many things that the Board will evaluate when we work through sort of our continued outlook for the remainder of the year. And so it is one of the tools that we will consider, but ultimately, that’s a Board decision that gets made in the context of safety and soundness, outlook on the economy and so we expect to have those discussions, and again, that’s one of the levers we think that is on the table to manage that capital level.

Good morning, Ben.

Yeah. In terms of the retention, the retention has been very, very good and our bankers are, I think, executing very, very well on what we’re referring to as promo-to-primacy. And while it is still early, we think we are making good progress in taking those new-to-bank relationships and broadening and expanding those relationships and that doesn’t happen instantaneously, but we see early indications that are encouraging.

Well, inherently, that’s embedded in our estimates of fee income and net interest margin. So, yeah, inherently, it is embedded, but there’s not a specific add-on at this point in terms of the way we manage our forecasting and budgeting.

Yeah. I’ll start and then ask Susan to sort of pick up. We sort of get varying degrees of information and a lot of it is anecdotal. I would say, in the middle of 2023 and in the early fall, you saw more people actually pulling back from the markets in terms of lending appetite and getting out of lines of businesses, which we think created a number of opportunities for us in things like mortgage warehouse finance and mortgage warehouse lending and restaurant finance and things of that nature.

The markets seemed to stabilize a little bit as you got into late 2023 and whether that was the Feds essentially loosening financial conditions by talking about the speaking of rates and potential for rate cuts being the topic of 2024. The market seems to have stabilized a little bit in terms of lending appetite and has probably gotten a bit more competitive. There are one or two examples of folks who are not taking new or new-to-bank relationships that are now back into the market. So it ebbs and flows.

All of that said, we feel very good about the opportunities that we are seeing. We try to execute with a very consistent and steady go-to-market approach. We try not to pull into and out of markets based on what’s happening in the next 25 days or 30 days by our estimate and essentially, what we believe is how we conduct ourselves in those periods of volatility are the things that define us for the next 25 years with our clients and our customers.

We literally try to just be very steady and very stable. And as a result, I think, we continue to see a number of attractive opportunities. It’s not a high volume because the economy doesn’t support that, but we’re very encouraged by what we’re seeing in the market. Susan?

All right. Thanks, Ben.

Brady, good morning. The way we’re preparing is we’re practicing treading water right now. We think at the end of the day that we have some flexibility in terms of managing the balance sheet and while it’s not clear what becoming $100 billion then for LFI entails and particularly with the proposals that are out on Basel III, we’re taking the time to understand that and to navigate through it.

Some aspects of it we’re likely to have to deal with earlier, particularly if the final rule gets issued on resolution planning for $50 billion to $100 billion organizations. Some of those things will start to work their way into the system. But right now, we’re studying what becoming an LFI looks like. We’re preparing the groundwork for it.

But at the end of the day, we’re not going to just stumble across $100 billion. We have a few years of flexibility and as I’ve alluded to, the ability to tread water and keep our balance sheet at a level that doesn’t push us over a bright line threshold accidentally.

Thank you.

It looks to us like, as we see the credit portfolios performing, that it’s still largely driven by idiosyncratic trends as opposed to broad-based, this category of asset or that category of asset. So what I’m really sort of suggesting is, borrowers that start in a more stressed position, more levered, inability to take price, higher cost pressures, interest rates, again, some -- that’s stressing some borrowers more than its stressing others. We’re not seeing broad-based trends in the portfolio right now. As Susan said, we’re spending a lot of time doing deep dives and analytics, but at the end of the day, the trends seem to be driven by more idiosyncratic stories than anything.

Those rates were down 75 basis points, 76 basis points from the special rates.

Good morning, Chris. I think you might see consolidation start to pick up later in the year. I don’t think that it’s going to be a robust environment personally. I think there’s still a tremendous number of headwinds, the purchase accounting marks being the largest at this point and then I think some of the uncertainty around what the regulatory landscape looks like, both in the context of what it takes to get a deal approved and how long that takes, as well as what does it mean if you deal with some of the bright lines like $100 billion in LFIs. So I don’t expect a tremendous amount of pickup during the course of this year.

In terms of First Horizon, our priorities are executing on the things that we’ve talked about and that’s dealing with the investments we want to make in technology and continuing to grow customer and client relationships. If you look backwards, we had spent roughly three years, maybe closer to four, depending on how you count it, in the merger of equals integration and then the pre-termination period. We really want to use this period of 2024 to continue to prove out the power of the franchise that we’ve built and we think we have plenty of opportunity to deploy capital there.

Sure. Thanks.

Good morning.

Well, as a matter of fact, our next Board meeting is next week. So we always cover financial outlook, capital management, our capital outlook with our Board. So that’s a meeting-to-meeting thing. I don’t want to prognosticate what the Board is likely to do or not do in our next meeting, but capital management is one of those things that we always spend time on. We think about it from the context of adequate capital as we stress test our balance sheet. We continue to do that and report it publicly. So I don’t want to get into what the Board may or may not consider next week, but it’s always a topic in terms of our balance sheet and financial outlook.

Thank you.

Thank you, Bruno. Thank you all for joining our call this morning. We appreciate your interest in our company and you taking the time to join us. Please reach out if you have any follow-up questions or if we can provide any additional information. I hope everyone has a great day.