Burton Goldfield
TriNet Group, Inc. (TNET) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey Kevin.

Thank you.

Well, thank you, Kevin. And look, I can retire because of this amazing team. I can retire because the culture is focused on the customer. I can retire because we weren't following anyone. We were trying to lead the industry with unique technology, the vertical strategy, the service model. And I am just -- it's not about me, it's about a culture that's been created where this company is going to do great, and I would never do this if I didn't think it would continue to grow and prosper.

So, I think like any CEO, what have I done well, I haven't changed the mission or the vision every year. I haven't said go after this shiny object or that shiny object. For a while, I was a little bit of a lone ranger in the technology needs to be the substrate of scale and service to the customer. So we've been investing in technology during my entire tenure, I don't have to catch up right now.

But I really appreciate your comments. I believe that our tech-first approach with great service and scale and the leadership around this Executive leadership table, combined with Mike coming in the door, is a great combination. I'm really proud of that. I'm proud of the team more than my individual contribution.

Thank you. You're awesome, Kevin.

Hey Kyle.

Thank you so much.

Hey Jared.

So, I'll take that. There is plenty of opportunity for all the competitors in the space. We are still less than 50% of quotes or against a direct competitor. And the opportunity to address that space from a TriNet standpoint is completely in our hands with our software and our vision of Denali and where it's going.

Other competitors are taking a very different approach to that. And I believe that our expertise, our service, and our core technology will lead us to a very, very competitive place as you go up market over the next couple of years. But there's plenty of room for everyone, and I welcome others to address that segment of the market as well.

Yes. So, it's a great question, and there's a couple of pieces to that. First, the strategy around the salesforce and sales leadership is working. We are up 19% in net new sales capacity. That's a pure capacity number. Efficiency is also up. So, you're seeing dramatic increases year-over-year.

January was way up as we talked about, and that's against a really strong January last year. So, there's a lot of momentum in the net new ACV and the onboarding of our new clients.

Additionally, attrition is way down and retention is incredibly strong right now. So, we're entering the year from a very strong position. It is really nice to be ahead of the curve at the beginning of the year, which is a continued momentum from Q4.

So, I see this continuing to accelerate and where we feel that we need to be really conservative is in the CIE or the hiring in our installed base. It's an area that is less under our control. It's an area that will come back. There was strong sales in tech in January. It will take a matter of time, but controlling the cost and being realistic about the unwinding of the net new ACV into profitability is built into the guidance, and I'll turn it over to Kelly.

And Andrew, just to add one more point to that. We will continue to invest significantly in the sales engine and growth of sales reps. So, the way you phrased it is exactly where we're headed. We need additional capacity. The additional capacity is coming on board not only at the same efficiency but at a higher efficiency. And as long as that's the case, we will invest in the sales organization. We're doing that at the same time keeping overall costs relatively flat.

So, Kelly and the team have done an amazing job of reallocating dollars, keeping the service levels up, keeping referrals up, but we will continue to invest significantly into the sales channel throughout 2024 as long as the results continue the way they did in January.

Thanks.

Thank you.

So, great question. As you pointed out, first is just our sales capacity. We have more sales reps. Second is that, as we've talked about on earlier calls, the uncertainty in the business environment is driving people to the PEO solution. So, complexity and uncertainty is driving people to go to this type of model.

And then finally, the vertical focus is resonating in the market and the technology backbone is providing the best service we have ever delivered in my tenure at TriNet. So, referrals are up, broker channel is up, direct sales is up and the market, I believe, will continue to give us this opportunity.

And as you know, there's about 40% of the revenue or the ACV generated in Q1. So, we're pretty excited about where we are today to start ahead of the curve, and that's one of the reasons I'm particularly excited about how the year pans out.

Additionally, you have the retention levels at record highs because people are appreciating the solution we're delivering.

Thank you. Appreciate.

Hey David.

It has. Thank you.

Hey, Mike is a lot nicer than I am and he's smarter.

So, it's a really good question. The way I see it is the complexity of the environment, if you can continue to scale the larger customers, offer them services, as well as an alternative insurance construct other than just the single employer plan, which is awesome when you're smaller, I believe you can keep the customers longer.

I think the challenge that people are finding right now is that if you're primarily people-driven, it's really hard to scale. And if you combine the people-driven approach with inflation, it's hard to maintain profits. So, what we've been able to do is build the platform, use the scale of the platform and service of the customers, but not have to add one new employee for every 10 new customers.

So, you're seeing us break out of a model where our costs are climbing as a service complexity goes up because we're tweaking the platform every single day, and we have a vision for the future of the platform. And it's not only about running payroll. It's about the knowledge base and the knowledge engine that's behind it. It's about the ability to pivot based on the complexity of each customer so that you can grow with them.

And you and I have talked about it, the complexity around access controls, the complexity around union payroll, the complexity around all types of other asked by the customers is really important. What I'm particularly excited about with Denali is the API-first strategy allows us to connect with many partners out there not tied to a single closed platform.

Well, that's the vision, absolutely. I think that what we're focused on is the professional service revenues. And what you're seeing is in our forecast for 2024, we are going to grow professional service revenues in excess of the gross revenue, which includes insurance. And that's what the barbell is about, and that's where some of this professional service revenues will come from in 2024.

But as you get into 2025 and beyond, I absolutely believe that the right answer is to provide the insurance construct that the companies choose and have multiple insurance constructs for those clients.

Yes, I look forward to seeing you. Thanks. Bye, bye.
