Carlos Alberini
Guess', Inc. (GES) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thank you for the question, Corey. Well, I have been here now for four years, back here for four years. And at the beginning, when I joined the first thing that we did with the team was to really develop a strategic plan. We looked at the opportunities that we thought will create the biggest value and we identified multiple opportunities to expand margins. And I think that that was the right thing to do at the time. That year, I think, the company close with an operating margin of 5.3% and we saw that there was a lot there to be able to reverse that and expand the margins to double digit standard.

And then COVID hit. And with COVID, we not only continue to execute secured on that plan, but we accelerated many of the initiatives that we had set out to do. One of them was the expansion of our digital business and investment to upgrade the infrastructure that we had. There were several things about operations, distribution network in Europe that was not working very well and so forth. But we identified a big opportunity to elevate the brands and really here is where Paul really took the charge and led the teams and the product teams to really go after this elevation of the brand. And I think it was an incredible strategy. It's working very well for us. And we were able to really transform the company, because this initiative touched every single point in the business at a global level.

So probably one of the biggest initiatives within that one was to develop and launch a global line of product for every market. This is working very well as you can see the consistency of the presentations across markets, but also seeing that the best sellers are best sellers in every market. Which I think confirms our initial idea that this is a brand that should be represented with a global line of product across every territory and every point of distribution.

And I think that now as we look back, I think we did a very good job, the teams really excelled at operating this business and executing on that plan. But what we see now is that, we have great margin business, highly diversified and now we can look at growth opportunities. And that's why we are talking about this four big pillars that we have identified. The first one is about just what we do internally opportunity to improve sales productivity. We see a lot of factors here that could be improved with positive comp sales, even in our wholesale distribution, our digital business can continue to expand. And we see that with the investments that we have made both in digital but also in our stores, we are poised for that growth and that opportunity in self-productivity improvement.

The second big pillar is about expanding in the market, whether we are in there or we are not. And we see that we do very well with our omnichannel approach when we approach any market. And we think that there is an opportunity for a store network expansion also in digital and also acquiring news new customers in those markets. So that's the second pillar. The third pillar is about brand extensions. We think that our brands are strong and they have a lot of momentum. And the customer is open to appreciating the lifestyle features that we have. In both brands, I'm talking about Guess and Marciano. And we think that we can continue to really penetrate other categories or expand in categories that we already have a big presence. A good example of this will be what we did with athleisure when the customer started staying home and so forth. And the athleisure line has been a huge success. It went from 0% to represent about 7% of our apparel distribution in almost a year, year and a half.

So we see opportunities like that one in many other areas. So that's our third pillar. And our fourth pillar is something that we haven't talked in the past, but we see a big opportunity for conducting or pursuing strategic acquisitions that can leverage the core competencies that we have created and built over the last 42 years that Guess has been in business. We have a global infrastructure with great management capabilities, we have a multi-channel capabilities too. We know how to do direct to consumer businesses, both retail and e-commerce. We know how to run a wholesale business, full price and outlet distribution. We have a great network of licensees that would -- could be further leveraged to partner with other brands.

We have been doing business in 25 different product categories. So the capabilities that we have in product are I think very unique and very strong. We also have a global product development and supply chain network that can really be applied to multiple businesses and brands. And we think that what we do in marketing in terms of a fully integrated in house advertising and marketing capabilities, I think is also very unique. We do everything in house. And we have a great global management team that could also be further leveraged. So we see that our diversified business can be just further leveraged and I think we have the capabilities in house to be able to capitalize on those opportunities. And we have a robust capital structure that will allow us to really become involved with new businesses. So super exciting and I hope that I answer your question.

Let me just add one concept here and that is -- Dennis has talked about what's inside the P&L. And I think that that's absolutely the way we have approached this planning. But the one thing that I think is important here to consider is the assumption on the top line, because I think that we are looking at how the business is trending, the state of the consumer, what we are reading, what we are seeing and for that reason, we decided to take a very prudent approach to our outlook. And that's why you see that 1% to 3% top line growth. But something that I think is very important to note here is that we have a business model that if we can experience a different level of growth just if we can see significant flow through to the bottom line. So -- and that obviously could impact our margins as well.

So I just wanted to make sure that that is considered. Currencies is another element that can impact the top line and the bottom line. And I think that that is something to be considered. And last big thing I think that Dennis mentioned this in his script is, this business model has the capability to deliver very strong free cash flow. We are anticipating even with those conservative assumptions that we share with you, we're anticipating that the company will be able to deliver about 150 million in free cash flow this year. We took this -- just the model very seriously. We looked at CapEx, we try to conserve capital, we have a high expectation that we will be able to turn inventories faster just eliminating the excess that we created just by being strategic to make sure that we have product to service both our stores and our wholesale business. But we are expecting that all that is going to be kind of like eliminated from the business more. And as a result, we can generate $150 million with conservative assumptions.

Thanks, Cory.

Thank you, Dana. Good afternoon. How are you? So let me start with your question on wholesale. We love the wholesale business. So let me start there. If you look at the strength of our wholesale business, it has been just very remarkable for this company for many decades and this year and our current business is no exception to that. We are super happy with how wholesale has been performing both in the last few years in North America and in Europe for sure until very -- until now.

So what we see is -- and let me just start by defining what is included in the Americas wholesale business, which is a segment for us. It comprises four markets, it's U.S., Canada, Mexico and Brazil. And the momentum of each of these markets is relatively different and there are significant causes for each. So the one market that is under most pressure is the U.S. And we think that this is somewhat driven by how retailers that buy our product had approached the issues with supply chain and now with what's happening with the consumer. And as a result, we see that there is a contraction of buying and that contraction is, we think, primarily motivated by trying to keep inventories in check and not create any excess inventory.

So as a result, we think that we have to play this game in a different way and be a lot more careful with how we buy. We had an experience when COVID started that we saw order cancellations left and right and we decided strategically at the time that we were going to keep those orders alive and that was a fortunate thing because then we found that our retail partners came back to us and say, well, we need product now because the consumer is back, COVID was somewhat under control. And unfortunately, we did have access to the product and we were able to make their business better and, of course, ours as well.

Our business in Canada has been very strong and performing very well. So we don't see any issues there. Our business in Mexico actually is outperforming the rest of our channels. And we are super happy with what's happening there and Brazil is very small business. So what we think that is going to happen here is, we think that we will continue to build our business. We think that product is going to be king as it always is. So if we have the right product, which we believe we do, our retail partners are going to come back and order more. And that additional business is not considered in our plans, but we think that there is plenty of opportunities to be able to do that and we are going to be strategic in the way we buy it. So then we can be in position to satisfy those as well as assuming that they do exist.

You asked about digital penetration, before COVID we were looking at our total e-commerce business as a percent of our direct to consumer business represent about 13% of our business. And this past year, we closed with 17%. We -- there is different momentum between the two regions I'm talking about, North America and Europe. Europe has done a lot better in terms of accelerating this business than North America. And we are seeing growth from the pre-COVID days in a significant way. And we think that there is a lot more to be had. Actually, our North America business is having a pretty good momentum and we think that this has a lot to do with the infrastructure that we have upgraded following what we did in Europe. So we see that the rhythm is accelerating there as well.

With respect to Guess and Mariano, definitely our main brand, core brand is Guess and we have a -- the majority of our business is anchored in that brand. But that said, Marciano, we see a lot of opportunity because we think that the product collections that we have within the brands are very unique and in the marketplace. We think that there used to be some other brands that were right there in terms of that offering that type of contemporary lifestyle at reasonable prices. But now those brands are kind of gone. I'm talking about the brands like [indiscernible] at the time, just there were some aspects of other brands here in [indiscernible] that offer similar type of product. And today, we don't think that that competition is there. And Marciano is also doing very well in Europe, which is, again, there aren't that many companies that offer the kind of product and quality and styling that Marciano offers today. When you think about the dresses that are in the brands, just are incredible and the customer is boating with their purchasing in a very strong way.

And so, we see that brand accelerating the growth. But again, it's relatively small when you compare it to the size of our Guess brand. And I think your last question was about IMU. Maybe Dennis, you can touch on that.

And I'm just going to add from a business standpoint, our intention here is to continue to add quality and price the product based on the customers perceived value. This methodology, a new way of pricing, I think, has been very successful for us. We want to couple that strategy with buying not more than what we need. So then we can continue to sell and expect to sell a lot of what we make and put in front of the customers at full price.

And I think as this format is working, we are investing in quality, we're investing in sustainability and we think that the customer is absolutely responding well to the -- not only the actions, but the messages that we have with the new product. And the one thing that is probably going to have an impact, but we are managing very well is, we made the strategic decision to really get closer to the markets where we distribute the products with our sourcing. And we call this proximity and definitely in some cases that may have an impact on the ultimate costing that we incur. But we think it's absolutely the right thing to do. We have incredible connections with some of these sourcing vendors and partners. And we believe that the quality that they deliver is at par or even better than some of the other parts of sourcing countries that you can find in the [Gulf] (ph).

So we feel that this is strategic and we think that over time this type of sourcing will probably represent a bigger part of what it represents today. But we think that is absolutely the right thing to do to improve quality, improve control over our supply chain and timing.

That's interesting that you asked that question. Denim has been relatively challenging for us depending on the markets, just I'm talking about both North America and Europe. We have seen kind of like a significant challenges with the category, but we have changed the designs and styling pretty significantly, just it used to be that skinny denim was a big part of our business and now it's a significantly less -- lower part, smaller part. And we are seeing that the business is turning. So we are excited about the future here. We think that we have the right assortment and we feel that there is an opportunity for us, just we invested heavily in the dressy parts of our assortment during the last year and a half or so because we felt that the customer was looking for that to really socialize and go out and we were right at the time. But as part of that, we did not invest as significantly in the casual parts of the assortment and we think that now the customer is going there. So we are ready for that.

And I didn't mention the region that is doing well with denim and that is Asia. We saw really good performance in the denim categories in Korea, even in China and Japan.

Thank you, Dana.

Thank you. Well, I just want to thank everyone for your participation today. We are very excited about the year that we have in front of us and very confident in our future. We have a great business model. We have multiple growth opportunities and we have an amazing team. We look forward to updating you on our progress and we wish you a very nice day today. Thank you.
