Charlie Giancarlo
Pure Storage, Inc. (PSTG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Amit. Absolutely. This is Charlie. Good to hear from you. First, let’s just say that as we went into last quarter, we were expecting double-digit for Q4, and we were able to deliver on that and feel really proud about the team and what they’re able to do. And that really represented the – a good close rate of our advanced stage opportunities, which continued through the quarter.

What did change is, especially as we came into the new calendar year, was a slowing down of progression of the pipeline of the staged opportunities, meaning the progression that we had typically seen in earlier quarters of movement from early stage to later stage in the progression. That has slowed down since the beginning of the year. And we have to assume that, that will be true for at least a couple of quarters going forward. And so that’s changed the outlook, if you will, for the year as we go forward.

That being said, we’re positive on the year overall, we’re positive on our competitiveness in the market. What – the other thing that’s perhaps changed is that we do notice a change in the way that the customers are evaluating their purchases, a lot more focus on economic analyses, especially on near-term operating costs. And that’s – of course, we’re responding to that now by changing the way our sales teams go about working with the customer on evaluating our products in a much more – much greater focus on near-term operational costs as a justification for making the choice to proceed forward with a project versus maybe other projects that they have in their consideration.

I think both Kevan and I mentioned that. But as we’ve done certainly every year and almost every single quarter, we continue to gain share against our competitors. Everybody is affected by the macro. We’re no different than that. But the goal is obviously to continue to outpace the rest of the field.

Yes. Thank you, Meta. Well, you’re correct. I mean, obviously, as we proceeded from Q3 into Q4, we knew that economic concerns would be higher. And we started adding some additional training to the sales force. We do have next week our first full in-person sales kickoff in three years since 2020 and a lot of what we’ve done is prepare the training for that for this new economic reality.

So we’ve had enough forewarning, if you will, and we planned early enough so that the way that the training is working out for our sales kickoff is going to be very much in the mode of selling and creating value propositions in an environment where customers are much more focused on near-term cost savings rather than, let’s say, long-term advantage or long-term cost savings. So that’s a clear change in the training that we’re putting in place in our field.

While our development of FlashBlade//E was not done in anticipation of a recession, it couldn’t come at a better time. It’s operating costs well below the operating cost of a hard disk environment that it will be replacing. And Evergreen//One, we should mention Evergreen//One. We did see significant increase in Evergreen//One versus capital purchases. Last quarter, every time we see some economic slowdown, whether it was the early COVID days or now this, we see a pickup in interest in Evergreen//One. So we’ve already seen that, and we can expect that, I think, for the next several quarters. That will have both short-term and long-term effects, overall good for the company but a transition to Evergreen//One from a capital also has immediate reduction of the revenue line.

Yes. Wamsi, thank you. We have consistently grown roughly 10% to 15% higher than our competition than the market as a whole on an annual basis. Obviously, every quarter is a little bit different. But on an annual basis, 10% to 15%, I expect that this year as well. It’s just a measure – a matter of calling out the overall market as a whole. I think that we also are not forecasting Meta because we don’t forecast until we get an actual order, and that obviously had an effect on both of our last two years.

And we do have significant large high-tech customers. And as others have reported, those are down a bit, but they always come back. So on – I was – I think everyone on this call knows that I look at this business on a long-term basis. I have no loss of confidence. I am every bit as confident about our long-term projections as I’ve had in quarters and years past. Evergreen – I’m sorry, FlashBlade//E, I think, is going to be a barn burner. Obviously, we’re just getting it started, and it’s going to be early days. But it opens up a major new part of the market for us.

Our field teams have been strong year in and year out, and we’re only making them stronger with some of the new programs we’re putting in place for this fiscal year in our sales kickoff that will be next week. So no loss of confidence in terms of our overall ability to perform, but we are facing a very uncertain year as is everybody else on a variety of fronts. And as we – hopefully, as we go through the year, we’ll pick up confidence as we go along.

Certainly, more Evergreen//One relative to the overall is baked into the guidance. As we mentioned, we’re not including Meta at all. What we did see that was a significant shift was the amount of time it takes to go from early stage opportunity in the pipeline to a later stage in the pipeline. The close rates of later stage have been consistent, I would say. But it’s that progression as you go through a pipeline funnel that’s taking longer.

Yes, and Simon, I might add on to that. The listeners may recall that the Meta architecture was FlashBlade for the high performance side which was approximately in terms of bytes stored about 10% of the bytes stored. And then FlashArray//C for 90% of the bytes stored, which are let’s say in hot standby, the – with FlashBlade providing the high performance side of it and the FlashArray//C providing the warm storage for data that’s about to be processed.

Well, what we see with FlashBlade//E is the opportunity to expand that even further. So it’s a great architectural, we have to provide both performance and then lower cost for the warm tier. And so, we can get into an all flash environment as well as an all pure environment in these customers, rather than having to have a high performance tier that’s flash, and then a lower performance, lower cost tier that’s hard disk.

And Matt, one other point just to raise in terms of use of cash. Obviously, we’ve got our converts coming up for maturity and use of cash will be contemplated as we work through that as well in April. So another consideration there.

I don’t have any to call out, but we did have 5G shipments in the quarter. And it continues to be an area of strong focus and attention for us. We are – we do have a presence in Barcelona this week and getting a fair amount of attention there.

Let me start with that, and then Kevan maybe can provide some additional color. There’s always ASP effect from pricing on flash. As you know, we operate in a market where the price per gigabyte generally declines every year. And that’s good for us because it allows us to penetrate increasingly the disk market. That being said, I would say that currently we expect to take advantage of what has been some lower NAND prices. And as callers who – or people who have followed us know, we tend to have an advantage in timing with early reductions in NAND pricing. And then eventually gets follows through to the rest of the market. And then, it comes back into equilibrium. But I think overall, the pricing of NAND is going to operate to our favor as we go through the year.

Yes. I would say that it was most noticeable as we turned the year – the calendar year that is. As we mentioned, we are able to close the advanced stage deals and as we went into the New Year, and to some extent I feel that it's probably had to do with the resetting of budgets by our customers as they enter their new – most customers obviously are operating on a calendar year basis. That as they entered their New Year, perhaps it's reconsideration or perhaps they're going into a planning mode that may be slowing things down or perhaps it may be simply a tighter budget being held to tighter budget restrictions or doing greater analysis little bit we're still trying to diagnose this. I would say it's very hard to say in the first few weeks of February in the sense that as I said, we're having our sales kick-off, all of the new quota and territory assignments are going out. So it's a little bit hard for us to get intelligence in the first few weeks of the fiscal year. But by going through the last month of the – of last fiscal year, that was when we really started to see this effect.

Yes. I'll start with the second part. We're not seeing any different behavior by the competitors. So we're not seeing additional competitive pressures. Win rates are holding basically steady. So no concern there. It's changing both the pitch, but also we're not making – the second part was we're not making any major structural changes to the sales force either. So no major changes there.

We are introducing a lot more training and enablement, but this has been on the books now for quite some time as well as more detailed information all the way down to the DM level so they can manage their operations better. We are expecting to see improvement in that overall. As you might imagine, during times like this inspection gets tighter. And so we are planning for some much more detailed inspection of deals, especially as they progress through the different stages of the pipeline as you might imagine given this new environment. But outside of that, I would say it's just general, improvement in general operational discipline and things, as I mentioned, that have been on the books for a while.

I'm going to give it a start, and then I'm going to invite Rob who's very engaged in those conversations. The interest level around energy and space savings is very high. There's always a question of doing it – that is in hyperscalers in particular, doing it internally versus using a vendor and a system level, but the conversations continue, which is very promising. I would say that outside of the three hyperscalers, the conversations in other, what you might call, cloud service providers and SaaS providers are very promising for both FlashArray//E [ph] as well as Pure Fusion, which is getting a lot of attention to enable these cloud service providers to operate much more like the hyperscalers in terms of the operations as well as being able to provide storage as a service to their customers.

I want to thank you all for joining us on today's call. And I, of course, want to thank our employees for creating and driving our vision and constantly improving our operations and our culture. Thank you to our long-term investors for your support and being part of our mission. And special thanks to our customers and partners for continuing to choose Pure for their business, data storage and management needs. Goodbye all.

