Chip Childs
SkyWest, Inc. (SKYW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Look, SkyWest's charter is a great entity from our perspective that has a tremendous opportunity in the future. The number one thing that SWC is doing today is largely doing on demand charter for sports teams which is a very surprising market, I think we talked about that last quarter, it's doing exceptionally well, strong demand, we're watching for the springtime to see what happens there.

And again, so we are limited today to just do on demand charter business, there's a lot of other things that are happening besides just sports teams, but as of today that's the primary basis of that business model. We still need to receive commute authority before we can go back into some of the cities that we would like to the smaller communities we would like to serve. That's what our objective is all along. And there's tremendous demand from that standpoint, but we still are limited to the flying that we can do today.

Yes. Let me maybe expand a little more than what we talked about in our opening comments. So I think I would probably say there's about four reasons why we were interested in the Contour transaction.

First and foremost, it's a good financial investment that's anchored in small community demand and we continue to say this a lot in the industry. As the United States deurbanized during the pandemic, there's a tremendous amount of demand in these small communities and we are very pro small community. I mean that's the foundation of what we started with 52 years ago and that's only becoming more and more enhanced. So it's a good investment in a very strong space that we really, really like.

Two, you're right, it's A way to deploy unused CRJ200 aircraft and assets, engines and the like, I think that that is a fantastic aircraft particularly at the 30 seat level to really enhance the economics of small communities and the demand for that product is extremely strong today and as we deliver in that space, we think it's only going to get stronger just the same way that we've been doing at SWC. So this is good for us and them.

Again, the other thing is that you touched on it. The expansion of supply pilot supply pass is very, very strong here. We can do some things. We didn't really mention it in the opening comments, but the flight schools today are extremely full, so full that given our captain constraints, we may not be able to hire as much as that's out there or certainly as much as we feel like we should hire. But to the extent that we can expand that, particularly with this relationship with Contour that's fantastic.

And last, it does provide some opportunity and some flexibilities for us in 135 expansion down the road. We can do some various things down the road with Contour that I think could be representative of our commitment to serve small communities in the 135 space. So strategic, it's a great partnership. We've had this conversation with them for a while and, I think this is going to be something that works very well for both of us.

Yes. They do have Commute Authority. And ironically, as we've been constrained with captains and have had to come out of certain essential air service cities, they've been the ones that have gone back and replaced us along the East Coast. So they can do some things that we can't as of today, but we are going to be very aggressive in continuing to pursue commute authority for SWC as well even with the Contour investment.

On your second question on pilots, let me add some color to that and maybe some more color than we've gone to in the past. We are still, when we were in pre-pandemic volumes, we had about 5,300 to 5,400 pilots on property at SkyWest Inc., mostly SkyWest Airlines obviously. As of today, we're still about 1,000 pilots short of that number.

So to get back to pre-pandemic levels, we need about 1,000 more pilots, 500 of them captains, the other 500 First Officers. Like I say, the schools are well supplied and that's not a problem, it's about the 500 captains. The demand that we see long-term is that we probably could use another 1,000 pilots on top of that. So, when we talk about small community service, when we talk about demand, the conversations with our partners, to get back to the previous levels, we need another 1,000 pilots and we think there's demand for another 1,000 pilots on top of that of which we have taken several aircraft since 2019.

So this is a long-term dig ourselves out of this hole. This is not going to take one-year or two-year, it's going a couple of years. When we say we're optimistic about the captain supply model, I can say that we're producing captains as of today, but not as many as we want. And throughout 2024, we're going to evaluate additional programs to make sure that we're vertically integrated with our partners to try to expand that cabin production even further. So, I don't know if that kind of helps put some framework around your question or not, Duane.

And Michael, on the second half of that, there's some big differences between Southern and Contour. Obviously, to become a Contour is almost exactly like SWC and we would like to accomplish with SWC. I mean, it's the same type of aircraft, same type of flying. And Southern was just a smaller aircraft, single engine turboprop that type of stuff. So the fleet and asset connection is the number one difference. And there's a lot of alignment strategically with what both of the carriers could do and from that perspective it seemed to work very, very well.

Yeah. Helane, this is Chip. In all honesty for us, it's business as usual. In fact, certainly given some of the things that have been going on in the industry, we've been asked to fly more and that type of stuff. So it's not had a major impact relative to what our flying is, in fact, I think demand is strong and I think when demand gets a little stronger sometimes you don't even notice it where we are today. So that's kind of the situation with that.

So, it's a complicated question and we probably have a little bit of conservatism in our answer to that and basically today a lot of our projections I will say they get better all the time as we watch what's happening. We've seen that change and I want to add some context. As we build back captains and we're back building back the operation. We're building it in a way that we don't think that this problem goes away just this at this moment over the next couple.

So we fundamentally think that over the next decade or so, we need to build a model that's resilient relative to captains and first officers both. So as we build that back, we're doing it the right way.

Back to your number, how many do you think that you can produce? I'd back up and just say, we have positive captain production today, but it's still going to take, at the rate we're going today, several years to get back to the 2019 levels.

Now, the most important part that we probably would tag on to that is we're working very diligently with partners in creative ways in which we can produce captains faster than what we producing today. That's the Contour investment. That's the pilot program investment with United.

Fundamentally and strategically, we are going to look to attract pilots that want to be either have a career position here at SkyWest or a career position at are for partners, but not career positions anywhere else. So we're going to continue to be far more surgical in the future than what we have been in the past about identifying those that contribute to our culture and our partners' culture.

So, I think, like I said, we're producing positive the last couple of months, which is the first time we've been doing it in the last two and a half years. And it depends on a lot of levels of attrition. It could be captain attrition, it could even be First Officer attrition right before they become captains, which honestly, Savi, we really don't have a great grip on what those are going to be. The models are a little bit all over the place. We can get super optimistic and we can be super conservative.

We're just not ready to get into that level of detail now outside just to summarize. We have positive production today. It's going to take a long time, but we're really focused on ways in which we can aggressively move this forward, not just for shareholders, but look, our people want this as well. We want high utilization for our employees, which obviously translates to the bottom line, but most importantly it creates a lifestyle where captains are going to want to stay as well. So it's a cultural event as well that we're deeply focused on.

Great. Thank you, Regina. We're really pleased with what we've done in 2023. I mean, there's a lot of challenges and a lot of headwinds and thanks to our amazing professionals at SkyWest for everything that was done this last year. We really look forward to what's going to happen in 2024. We don't doubt that there will be any less headwinds and probably surprises along the way. But I think that we are in the process of making sure we're controlling the line of scrimmage, if you will, so that we have options and flexibility to work with our people and our partners to move forward in a very, very positive way.

We appreciate the analysts that are following us as well and the interest that you've given to our company, and we look forward to talking to you next quarter. Thank you.