Chip Brewer
Topgolf Callaway Brands Corp. (MODG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Alex, this is Chip. So for Q1, we're expecting a tough comp as you would expect overall, but specifically in the corporate business. The corporate business was still at that post-COVID surge point in the first quarter last year, and then we saw the change in trend after that. After first quarter, we do expect corporate events to stabilize and we're already seeing that. You can see that in the data right now.

The walk-in business has been stable over the last several quarters and we do expect that to improve through the year as well. So we're seeing an improving trend. We have easier comps after Q1 and pretty clear direction, I think, in terms of what we've seen and consistency with what we've seen over the last four or five months.

Thank you.

Megan, we saw headwinds from weather in January. We saw tailwinds from weather in December, which is somewhat what you'd expect this time of year some volatility around that. In January, the weather headwind was roughly about 200 -- 250 basis points relative to the full quarter. We don't read too much into that other than that's one of these things that happen this time of year.

The trends that we were seeing in really for the second half of last year are indeed the trends that are continuing. And we feel good about the direction overall of our same venue sales with some clear opportunities that we've talked about with the mid-week promotions and the digital efforts and other initiatives that we're developing that we think will have a positive impact on same venue sales.

Well, we track that specifically, and that is indeed the one thing that we were most guarded against. So our results have indeed shown that it not only doesn't cannibalize the weekends, it's additive from a traffic perspective and therefore net profitable. And we're obviously also relatively measured in the promotion that we're now implementing. Half off gameplay only through the app, which is not too dissimilar from what we saw on the Tuesday. But we think that it'll have a positive impact and we did indeed trial that before we implement it.

Hey Randy, it's Chip. I'm going to jump in on this one. And then Brian, if you have anything to add, jump in.

We are still seeing strong results on the weekends, so the weekends are continuing to comp positively for us, as we mentioned last quarter, so no change in trend on that. And through Q4, we continue to see a weaker overall result in the consumer business mid-week. So those are consistent. And it's also a good news story because we can be targeted about how we address that specifically with it only being a mid-week issue on the consumer portion of our business.

And then in terms of how it's going to, or at least we're forecasting it to work through the full year in terms of same venue sales, the math works that we're projecting a high-single-digit down in Q1 after a big comp gain a year ago in Q1, and then for the balance of the year, low to mid-single-digits positive to get us to that flat number for the full year.

Thank you.

Brian, why don't you take that one and then I'll jump in.

And then Daniel, we are seeing the golf equipment business, we are projecting that to be up mid to high-single-digits this coming year. The Active Lifestyle, roughly flat. The golf equipment business increasing profitability. The Active Lifestyle flat to slightly down.

Sure, Kate. Let me start on golf ball. Golf ball, this is a bigger launch for us than we have had last year. It's our premium ball launch and in fact, it's basically a new brand that we're introducing to the market. So on the golf ball side, big launch, big opportunity; pricing is up on this product versus where we were previous as well. And relative to average ball, higher price point. In fact, this matches the price points of the most premium golf balls that have any market share in the market.

In the club side of the game, the Ai Smoke is a very significant launch for us and a very comprehensive. It's similar in terms of scale to paradigm, potentially the one key difference is in the irons side of that, in that we're launching the irons for Ai Smoke at a price point that fits a larger portion of the market. The Paradigm iron was priced in a premium category where the Ai Smoke is more consistent with our irons that have historically established higher market share positions.

Okay.

Yes, Joe. We're mid to high is the estimate for golf equipment. I'm sorry; low to mid, low to mid is the estimate for golf equipment. If I misspoke earlier, low to mid is the correct number.

Not much of it from pricing this year. The club side of it is pretty consistent pricing as mentioned, the irons is at a slightly lower price point than the paradigm iron. The ball was a higher price point, so it's not a significant move in terms of pricing this year.

Sure. Yes, the synergies are an ongoing effort, John, that we're unlocking here. And if you look at the journey we've been on, we've clearly added cost saving synergies with shared costs across the business. We've clearly ramped the growth rate of Topgolf. We've strengthened that overall organization, we believe, and they're demonstrating some of the results there. And we're really now moving into the more exciting stages from a brand, a digital, and a revenue perspective. So we're well ahead of what we expected to deliver in terms of the operational efficiencies, the cost of capital, if you would, the growth rates that we're delivering, sourcing synergies, all of those have been realized as per our expectation and as shown in the deck. And now we're getting our arms around these digital synergies, brand synergies, et cetera, that we think can drive some significant market share and revenue growth and brand strength over the coming years.

Sure. What's behind us is clearly those synergies that come from cost, and although that will continue, right? We're -- all of these investments that we're making both at corporate and at Topgolf, provide synergy. When you hear us talking about adding investments in cybersecurity and workday, other big infrastructure projects, you may allocate those into the corporate side of the business, but those are spread across the entire business and in essence, a synergy.

Our ability to fund the venues to be able to use term debt effectively to have a lower cost on term debt that gets extended across the business is a clear synergy that's already in place. We've scaled the growth of the Topgolf business and funded initiatives that are clearly bearing fruit. The revenue and brand synergies, we're not fully quantifying those yet, but we think they're going to be significant. We talked very clearly about the reach here, right? This is -- Topgolf is got more than half of all golfers in the U.S. will visit Topgolf. It is the largest source of new golfers going forward and is continuing to scale. It's larger than off -- than on-course golf and we obviously have an advantage in reach there that can be very significant going forward.

The consumer data platform is going to be very significant for us across our -- all of our businesses. We've been investing in that across the business over the last year plus. We're going to be having that up and running by the end of the year and it is potentially significant, increasingly significant, starting towards the end of this year and going into next year. So stay tuned on that. But it is a big and important new project.

How you market to consumers and how you approach consumers and how you engage with consumers, in today's day, in world and increasingly in the future is going to be digital. We've going to have a reach advantage in that and some capabilities that others will not have.

I want to thank everybody for tuning in today. I apologize we went a little long. We had a lot of material to cover, as you can tell. And we're really trying to be best-in-class in terms of our transparency and data that we present to you. We feel very confident in our venue business. We feel very confident in our golf equipment business. The venue business is clearly a long duration and appreciating asset and we've presented a lot of data that is new and in support of that. So I invite you to take a look at that in due course. Thank you for your time and we look forward to talking to you at the end of Q1.
