Chris Wright
Liberty Energy Inc. (LBRT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Scott.

Scott, I think Michael gave a good summary. Look, we kid ourselves a little bit that we know what’s going to happen at the end of Q3 or Q4 of this year. That’s yet to be determined, but as Michael said, in an overall a little bit softer macro this year. Last year started really strong and then sort of declined throughout the year. About 50 less frac fleets were operating at the end of last year than were 15 months before that, so the industry shrunk a little bit. A little bit of downward pressure on pricing, but I would say the behavior of the industry was outstanding, and that people idled capacity. They couldn’t get good pricing, and the work was there. People idled frac spreads, and that kept pricing, again, down a hair, but pretty flat, and I think we would expect pricing to be flat this year as well. If a macro changed and oil prices bumped up $10 or so, yeah, you might see a little strengthening or firming, but we don’t have a crystal ball.

So we just kind of look at what is the –you can expect Liberty to outperform the macro market conditions, as Michael said, because of that superior technology, and even more important, just better service quality.

Yeah, the interest in digi is just huge. The balance is – the hands in the air to get a digi fleet is just massively more than the amount of fleets we’re going to build, or the rate at which we’re going to build fleets, right? That’s constrained somewhat by or what we think is the prudent rate of capital deployment into that. But yes, so those dialogues go on for a long time, they are ultimately long-term agreements when those go into place, it’s about timing of rolling out those fleets.

There is two different pump technologies, what’s the right mix, that’s different for different customers. But yes, interest there is tremendous, yes, the specifics are always bottom-up, more top-down, so I think your numbers for what we’re budgeting are probably about, we ended the year last year with four, and at the end of this year, we’ll probably have, of order, a quarter of our fleet will be digi. But again, that’s not a top-down thing, that’s a bottom-up thing in dialogues with customers.

Ron, I don’t know if you want to give any color on technology, how that’s rolling out, and where we’re going, but the more we see, the more excited we are.

Right, Luke, so yes, this year’s focus is really about supporting our Digi and our dual fuel rollout, right. So we are probably doubling the compression capacity of LPI, focused mainly on two basins there. The two main basins, we’re going to be chewing up a lot of gas, which is the Permian and the DJ, we’ll do some fuel gas, a decent amount of fuel gas work over in the Haynesville, and we’ll look at other basins as we go forward from there. And then it’s going to be the CNG trailers and fuel distribution units that really back that up.

So nothing is going to be spent regarding at the moment in the plan on mobile power generation outside of the industry, for outside the industry, that’s something that we’re looking at with the board, and that’s going to be, we’re going to be working on that sort of expansion plan as we go through the year, and that probably becomes more of a next year thought process as far as the investment side of that goes.

Returns basically we have a single hurdle for all sort of like growth capital or any sort of any investments really here at Liberty, and then kind of other measures to some degree our 12-year history of what we’ve done, and that sort of 23%, 25% cash return on cash invested. That’s the target for everything we do. Obviously, you’re starting a new business you won’t hit that in your first year, but that’s what the long-term target for all those, all investments that Liberty does are.

Hi.

Well, that’s the dialogue that makes up our business and really has from the day we started this company. We came out with – our first fleet was, by a fair margin, the best frac fleet in the Bakken. So how many more do you build, how fast do you build them, what’s the right balance there? So again, I don’t know if I got any new or specific color commentary on that, but for us, it’s critical for the long run of our business is to make sure we have very strong return on capital investment opportunities. We don’t just add business lines or go into other stuff because we can do that. We only want to do things where we’re going to have a significant competitive advantage versus other providers in that area and therefore very strong returns on capital.

But I would say our philosophy is we will continue to grow our competitive advantage in our business with time. But we will develop a growing, regular, steady dividend. And when we have compelling opportunities as we’ve had for the last 18 months and probably have for the foreseeable future to buy back our shares in an accretive fashion, we’ll do that as well.

Michael, am I missing anything else we should touch on?

The third leg on that, obviously, is balance sheet, right? We’re in a cyclical industry, but multiples are low and people don’t like our industry because it’s cyclical. We actually like that it’s cyclical. That has allowed us – that has been an advantage for us, is to navigate those cycles always with a balance sheet, always able to take advantage of dislocations and compelling opportunities that come about more often in our industry because we’re cyclical.

And as you see, as the production base is so much larger in the U.S., that activity, just to keep production flat, is so much higher and dominates activity today that looks clear we’re going into a less cyclical world that we’ve been in. When the shale revolution started, my God, we had activity swing down by 70%. That’s probably inconceivable today, given what it would have on U.S. and therefore global oil and natural gas production.

So the future is probably meaningfully less cyclical than the past, but we didn’t view that cyclicality as some terrible thing. That was an opportunity for us. We’re still going to have it going forward, but certainly in a more muted fashion.

We get pitched a lot, but we’ve been pitched a lot internationally for six, seven, eight years. And one of the things that obviously I know you know that’s defined Liberty is these long-term committed partnerships with our customers. And so in the past, there’s just no way we’re going to find all of our fleets have been busy all of the time, except for COVID, and maybe going forward in the future. We’re at a scale now that we don’t have to infect our workforce or do anything disruptive. Today, if demand pulls back and it makes sense to idle fleets, we’re very happy to do that. But as we grew and built this business, all of our fleets were busy all of the time. So we weren’t going to tell a customer, hey, sorry, we’re shipping your trucks overseas.

Now with the Digi rollout, we’ve got a new technology that’s meaningfully upgrading our fleet, and we’re going to have fleets that come out the other end of that, that maybe are not fully at retirement age. And so we are going to – and that’s what’s going to happen with Australia. One of our legacy fleets that will come out of service because of a Digi fleet rolling in we’re going to send that over to Australia. It’s not going to be fully utilized right away. Look, this is exploratory. Let’s figure it out and see where we can go kind of play.

But our capital investment is basically moving over idle equipment. We’ve got good economics for the frac work we’ll do over there. We’ve taken an ownership stake in Tamboran. So we own a not insignificant chunk of the company with a large acreage position. So if we can make it work, I think, we get value through the business, our partner in that. And this is a giant basin. This is similar to gas in place to the Marcellus.

So if it works, could there be a significant amount of frac work in Australia? Absolutely. But that will take time, that will take time. So for us, we like it because it’s asymmetrical. The downside for us is very small and the upside could be significant.

For the most part, look, where our fleets are going, our existing customers, and I would say the top thing they’re committed to is the quality of Liberty service, and just the way we do business. We’ve been partners for years through good times, through bad times. Look, the biggest sticky is glue is Liberty. Our people, our way of doing business, the quality of service we deliver. The extra upside or the evolution customers want with time is, hey, can we go to fleet that have lower fuel costs and lower emissions, ultimately even smaller footprint with the higher power density. So, but the interest in those technologies are there, but people choose partners and then work together with those partners to find the path to upgrade technology. It’s very rarely, hey, I don’t care who it is. I just want an electric frac fleet. I’m sure there is a customer like that, but that’s – that’s not a Liberty customer.

Thanks.

I mean, look, there’s a limit in that there’s 24 hours in a day. We had a fleet. I think we announced this, I’m not sure, but yes, we had a fleet that pumped 672 hours in a month. So for that fleet and that performance, there’s not a lot, a whole lot more hours remaining to rise to. But yes, look, these are a combination of supply chain. You got to bring sand, chemicals, everything on location. You don’t hear about it so much, but disruptions in those, they slow down frac operations. It’s one of the reasons Liberty really developed this integrated delivery of stuff that arrived there. It’s people, it’s equipment, it’s our partners. A lot of the efficiency we have, we couldn’t have with different partners, forming partnerships with Liberty. It’s a lot about how can we work together to get better.

Let me turn it over to Ron to give a little more color. But boy, it’s from software. It’s from humans, it’s equipment maintenance. But Ron…

I’ll add one other thing. So we took over a wireline business three years ago. We’ve changed humans there. We changed procedures. That took us time. We got into the wireline business. If you looked at the Kimberlite surveys every year, Kimberlite has done the survey, Liberty is ranked as the top frac company since they began the survey. We worked at the start to top wireline company. In fact, we may have been more stud the other way. But more recently, and today, we are the number one ranked wireline company. So one of the things we look at is when we have a Liberty wireline truck with a Liberty frac fleet, you have left downtime.

So of course, that’s the majority of our fleets now, those are paired but not all of them. So there’s still room for improvement for us. But obviously, the low-hanging fruit gets picked first. And now it’s about continued optimization, but less upside there.

Yes. So, I think as we’ve talked about a little bit, there is sort of a bulge at the moment. You think about 10% attrition every year, right, sort of an annual 10-year life cycle with fleet. I mean that’s a rough number. But there’s a bulge of equipment that was built in that sort of 2013, 2014, nothing much, nothing was built in 2015 and 2016. Some stuff was built in 2017, 2018, sort of into beginning part of 2019, nothing was built through COVID. So, if you look upon that, if you think about the distribution, right, there is a bit of a bulge of equipment in that sort of eight year to 12-year old age group, and that’s all Tier 2 diesel, right? So, I think what we’re going to see is you can see some accelerated sort of number of fleets leaving the market over time, because of that fact, right? So, I think that’s what’s happening. And then as you say, people are high-grading fleets as we go through the year.

We’re not sure. Roughly half maybe.

Thanks.

Yes. Look, what is Liberty passioned about and we have some skills in energy, how to develop and take new energies and commercialize them. Obviously, our focus with Fervo, it’s barely a move at all from our core business. Oklo is definitely more of an outreach. Oklo was a $10 million investment. So it was less than 2% of our CapEx. So smaller investment in that. But we look at what could be changing in the future of energy? What technologies could play a growing role that Liberty could be helpful in?

And think of LPI. What LPI’s long-term business. It’s to deliver gas and electricity where it’s needed. And today, that’s in the oilfield, that’s running our frac fleets for the start, then it’s going to grow to other oilfield applications. But we’re doing things on a policy front. It’s making electricity more expensive and a little bit less stable grid. If we had LPI in Europe, we could make a mint just keeping the lights on, it’s having high thermal efficiency, mobile addressable power needs. So that will expand, LPI will ultimately provide providing power solutions in the oil and gas industry outside the oil and gas industry.

What else could play a role in that sort of shorter-term operate smaller grids, Oklo is small modular reactors. The interest in the technology is tremendous. We held an event in Midland, Texas. Oil and gas companies, Liberty and Oklo. Interest absolutely tremendous for everyone that’s looking at these larger companies building their own grids maintain, building grids. What are you going to run those on. Natural gas, maybe natural gas and nuclear.

Thanks, Waqar.

I’ll take that one, Keith. So it will probably be about half of the gas usage. We’re going to focus very specifically on the places where you’ve got 100% downtime, right? So the digiFleets. The digiFleets you need, when you don’t get gas, you don’t have steady gas, those fleets aren’t working, right? So the number one focus is making sure, we support the 100% gas fleets and then moving to more of our high usage Tier 4 fleets. So, I’d say about 50% of our gas users will probably be covered by LPI by the end of the year, Ron of course?

So I think you’d see even with the lot of growth this year with LPI there’s still a lot of Liberty fleets and gas consumptions still not covered by that. And that’s just within that original application. So we got lot of room.

Yes. I wish I had a more confident comment, because we do some bottom-up analysis and productivity and where we’re going. But honestly, we were also probably a bit surprised by the rate of growth last year, given that activity. And I think the most likely reason is a larger percent of that activity was from sizable publics that have the best acreage. So the quality of locations drilled, which is generally trending downward, people drill their best uppers and move out. But as you saw, a shrinkage of private activity last year and a growth actually among the activity among the public’s that have the very best drilling locations that probably was the biggest factor a bit in the surprise for how fast oil and gas production grew. But we’ve got to go through our data. So, I don’t have any great confident proclamation there.

My guess is current – certainly, on a granular level, we’re working for players that are at activity levels now that are definitely declining production, others that are modest growth and others that are flat. But like that is where we are today in total activity, you won’t see that until summer production data. We’re probably at fast flat in the sum of oil and gas production. So yes, I don’t think activity drops much from where it is here. It’s more likely to move up a little bit as the year goes on to stay around modest growth, which I think is the target.

Thanks.

Yes. We saw that note, and there’s going to be a whole new ratio now. And so look, I think it’s important to – you had to step back and put those in context. When you’re doing simul-frac or trimul-frac, that’s not one frac fleet, it’s pumping, right? That’s a trimul-frac might not be three frac fleets, it might be 2.4 frac fleets or something. But that’s for horsepower for equipment, you have more equipment on location when you go to those larger operations. So in frac fleet size that are doing things like that, we don’t view that as one frac fleet if we’re doing something like that. That’s more capital equipment. And we look at returns, not on fleets but on capital investment.

So there are efficiencies, and if you’ve got a perfect supply chain, large pads and you’re willing to put capital out a long time, there is activity like that going on. But it’s and that rose up, I don’t think you’re going to see a wild change in the deployment of that going forward. It will continue to grow, but it’s not going to massively move the rig to frac count ratio. Part of it’s just rates of efficiency improvement, both rigs and frac spreads have had great rates of efficiency improvement.

The other factor you don’t hear talked about so much is frac intensity it used to move depending on sand prices. Sand prices are high, frac intensity will pull back a little bit. Sand prices are low, frac intensity, you’ll grow. But there’s another factor, which is reservoir and rock quality as we’re gradually drilling lower rock quality, what’s the offset to that? Do you want to accept these production declines nobody does. So what happens is frac intensity grows to offset. So in the next few years, you’ll see a growth in frac intensity that is trying to offset the balance of slightly lower drilling locations that are being drilled.

I’ll give one example. We have a great private customer in the Haynesville used to work for one of the big players in the Haynesville drill in the core acreage. And here they are four or five years later today, their IPs and their EURs of the wells they’re drilling today are almost the same as pretty much the same as the core locations they were drilling five years ago at a different operator, but what do they do? The pounds per foot of sands, the pumping rate and the clusters, they basically increased frac intensity in this case, by factor of three, but that increase in frac intensity offsets a degradation of reservoir quality. This is a faster degradation because it’s someone who owned the core acreage to someone acquiring not core acreage. But the biggest offset to acreage degradation is frac intensity. So, I’m not worried about all of a sudden we’re going to go to five to one frac fleets to rig, that’s not happening.

Yes. It’s just a little bit specific around it. The bottom generally, there’s a number of operators that slowdown in Q1 or don’t do it, but there’s some specific operators sort of doing that in Q1 that’s going to change. Again, I think it was a very busy basin through Q3, slowed down a bit in Q4 and then kind of went off for some winter weather breaks in Q1 and it’s coming back in Q2. It’s good it kind of offset a little bit of the opposite seasonality you get in Canada.

Yes, Bakken is really one of the basins that has a little bit more of a seasonal character to it than Permian or Haynesville and New Southern Basins would.

Thanks.

Certainly possible. Certainly possible. What we look at, like we get pitched everything, but if there are things that really look like they have a reasonable chance of great success, and there is some synergy. We can either help them on the road to success or Fervo it’s obvious, it’s services and engineering, we’re doing. There are different ones. Natron is a huge amount of investment in lithium-ion batteries, right, because they have the highest energy density. But they have some fundamental problems. And the worst for us, we use batteries. Think of both digiFrac and digiPrime employ batteries in the field, as temporary storage power mechanisms.

digiPrime is a hybrid thing. So it’s moving energy back and forth between batteries, storing and giving power out, sorry, I’m mumbling. But in case, what’s neat about Natron was that it’s a sodium ion, which I think you’re going to see a lot more of that going forward. It’s just an ion that fits well in the matrix. It can discharge faster. It can recharge faster. It can live longer. It does not have the fire hazard. It has lower power density. So boy, if you’re sending someone to the moon, you have a lower powered entity. So it doesn’t win on everything, but it wins on the things that matter for us, fast discharge, easy to charge, low fire risk like that’s a technology that done well is going to play a role and probably going to play a role in the Liberty world. I don’t know if Ron wants to add anything to it, but I think that...

We’ve had dialogues about that. We’re always away from ready to deploy and do that. We’re not going to do it just to do it, right? It’s got to be, we’ve got to find the opportunities that are compelling economically and that fit our skill set and expertise. We’re still building that skill set and expertise as we’re building those for power plants. But if we engage in dialogue with other parties, absolutely. Is there interest in having more power on grids or for industrial facilities. Absolutely.

You bet. Thanks so much.

On February 5, Liberty will release our 2024 bettering human lives report. It is significantly expanded from previous versions with more case studies and more topics covered, all in the same centered around data style. Writing this report took up a lot of my holiday vacation, but increasing energy literacy or energy sapriety is critical to our future.

Let me give you a taste of just one section called Energy Edition. This section looks carefully at trends in energy production over the last 12 years. Are we in the midst of an energy transition that we hear so much about. The data says that the answer is no. This is not an opinion or a preference. Heck, I work in other areas of energy and began my career in nuclear and solar. This is simply an honest reading of the data.

In 2010, the world consumed a little more than 500 exajoules of energy. 12 years later, in 2022, the world consumed a little less than 600 exajoules of energy. Great progress was made in growing the energy resources available to expand opportunities and better the lives of the world’s eight billion people. What energy sources provided this additional energy beyond the 500 exajoules that we consumed in 2010.

The runaway fastest-growing energy source in the world over the last 12 years is natural gas, which supplied roughly 40% of the additional energy over that time period. Fully half of the additional natural gas supply came from the American shale revolution. What was the second fastest-growing source of energy during these 12 years? Oil provided 24% of the growth in global energy with the large majority of that coming from the American shale revolution, the third fastest growing energy source was coal, which supplied 14% of additional energy to empower our planet. Wind came in fourth at 9%, solar at 7% and hydro at 4% of the growth in global energy supply. These numbers are not percentages of total energy supply today, they are only percent of the growth in energy supply, the new energy over the last 12 years.

Oil and gas supplied 63% of the growth in energy, which represents an increasing market share of global energy over that 12-year period. Hydrocarbons as a whole had flat market share as cold market share slightly shrunk. How can we call this a transition for global demand for natural gas, oil and coal continues to grow without even a diminution of market share. Don’t get me wrong. I’m not celebrating this fact. I’m just calling out others for pretending it isn’t so. I’m very keen to see the world far better energized so that the seven billion people living far left energized lives can enjoy the lifestyles of the lucky one billion. To achieve that goal, it would be very helpful if nuclear, which saw zero growth over the last 12-year period, geothermal and any other affordable, reliable energy source could contribute much, much more to satisfying the world’s demand for more energy. We need more energy, better energy. If you want to read more about the global energy system, climate change, poverty and prosperity look for the release of Liberty’s Bettering Human Lives 2024 report on February 5. Thanks for joining us today.