Chris Hunter
Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc. (ACHC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Whit. I mean, I'd say to start, I mean, just overall, we're really glad to see the announcement. I mean, we're tracking it closely, but I think we're still largely in waiting mode here for a number of the key areas of additional detail from CMS. So, a number of those details that would include the care model, the funding model, geographic participation, etcetera. But, overall, just the key details of the program are yet to be released. And, we're eagerly awaiting those specifics. It is something that we would like to participate in, and we think that we have some, really compelling capabilities, and just eagerly will continue to track and await those ongoing details that are to come.

Okay. And AJ, this is Chris. I might just add a couple quick things on that. I just think overall, some of the recruiting practices that we've put in place have also, helped us to meet this volume that we're continuing to see. And we expect that to remain the case throughout 2024. Just a few initiatives that I might point out that I think are helping us attract talent in, but also retain talent. I mean, first of all, these investments that we continue to make in technology to improve patient care and employee safety have been extremely helpful, as we've done employee engagement surveys as well.

I think the intentional onboarding and training for our clinical staff has also helped us significantly to that front. We've seen some real variation historically. And then I just think, relentless focus on employee engagement in every facility, tracking it and measuring it and holding our operators accountable has also led to, some real improvements on that front that have enabled us to meet the demand that you're referencing.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Brian. I think we've continued to invest not only in pulling together a really strong team for our CTC business, but also just optimizing the facilities that we have. I think we've done an excellent job and our team has done an excellent job this past year of significantly reducing the variations that we've seen in wait times, as an example. We've made investments in advance of redetermination to make sure that we were ready. We had kiosks in place at each of these facilities that continue to be very beneficial for patients. When they check in, they want to get in and out of our CTC clinics inside of five minutes. The technology that we've put in place with these kiosks has enabled them to do that. I think that's been very beneficial as well.

I think overall, our ability to coordinate across the company in advance of redetermination is one of the reasons that we've been able to navigate through that particularly well this past year. There are investments that we will make that I think are modest with respect to just ensuring that we have the right team, particularly to be able to handle many of these RFPs that we anticipate given the magnitude of the 50 plus million in opioid settlement dollars. That's one area that I would call out. There are also some things that we've considered from a technology standpoint, dispensing units for dispensing methadone, which is obviously DEA regulated. Very precise dosing is critical. We've looked at some technology there as well.

None of these are significant investments that I would call out. I would just call it continued optimization of the really strong operational job that this team has continued to deliver.

Yes, and one other thing I would just add, Brian, is that when we did the investor day, one of our goals was to lay out, the significant ramp in bed growth that we anticipated from 570 beds in 2022 to 670 in 2023, and then really stepping up to what we had guided, as 1,150 both this year and next year. And so we continue to feel very confident in our ability to deliver on that. Obviously, we have, I said in my opening remarks, a number of JV projects that we expect to come online this year, three in particular, the Ascension-Seton facility in Austin, which is our second with Ascension. Henry Ford in Detroit, which is a particularly large facility, 192 beds there. And then we'll be opening a facility just outside of Denver with Intermountain, 144 bed facility there later this year as well. And then there's a number of de novo's that we have very strong visibility into from one that we're getting ready to open in Tampa, the Agave Ridge facility in Mesa, and then there's another facility in Madison, Wisconsin with over 100 beds that we'll open later this year as well. We also have really strong visibility into our bed additions and then, our CTC de novo's as well that I'd mentioned will ramp from 6 to 14 incremental this year as well.

So all that in totality just continues to give us strong visibility into what we had previously laid out of 1,150, and we've guided to roughly 1,200 beds that we'll bring online this year.

Hey Kevin, this is Chris. I'll take that. I mean, overall, I would say no, during the fourth quarter, we just continue to be pleased in the continuation of the same trends that we were seeing in the third quarter and really throughout the year. So we just don't see a significant impact on either patient volume or patient mix going forward. I think the impact continues to be very consistent and manageable. I think we're -- we ended the year and said that we estimated that about 70% of our patients had completed redeterminations, and we I think continue to anticipate the process will run its course, and we'll largely complete our patient population by midway through the year by the end of the second quarter.

And I just think that the experience that we're seeing is that our ability to secure alternate forms of coverage for our patients remains really strong. I mean, the vast majority of those patients that have lost coverage are resolving favorably within 30 days of a coverage notification, which is really consistent with what we saw in the third quarter. So just overall, we continue to be cautiously optimistic and think we're just going to continue to see a continuation of the trends from Q3.

Yes, hey Sarah, this is Chris. I'll take that. For the remote monitoring, we're effectively talking about not video but being able to track monitoring of the patients that are generally wearing a bracelet and we have a tablet where one of our staff is able to check on them at the appropriate time. As for those that are danger themselves or others, particularly our acute patients, we may have to do bed checks from a 5-minute duration to a 15-minute duration, and this really enables us to monitor that and to follow through and execute on those requirements. So that's been incredibly helpful as we've rolled that out to 53 facilities.

As we also continue to roll out or EMR. We continue to see just really strong overall outcomes across the board. I would start with quality. We've seen really strong improvements in a number of just very important metrics, the metabolic screening, discharge planning, national quality metrics that will continue to be really important to payers going forward. And I think we continue to perform well ahead of the benchmark on restraint and exclusion, national quality measures as well which is really important as these events are where both staff and patient injuries most frequently occur.

So we're clearly seeing benefits just from a patient safety and compliance standpoint as well. We've seen upticks as I said earlier, on employee satisfaction because clearly, clinicians in this day and age are trained on an EMR. They're not trained in paper. And so that is very dissatisfying when they come into our industry broadly, and there has not been historically the level of investment, as you know, relative to the Med-Surg facilities that we see in behavioral health across the board, not just Acadia. So I think our ability to make that happen has been very effective.

And then I think just overall, the efficiency to your question, everything from utilization review to improve documentation quality from standardized charts, reducing paper storage cost. All of these things together all tie in to enabling us to serve our patients in a more quality-oriented and efficient manner and also keep our patients safe.

Thank you. Before we end the call, I just want to again thank our committed facility leaders, our clinicians and our over 23,000 dedicated employees across the country who have continued to just work tirelessly to meet the needs of patients in a safe and effective manner. We have a really strong foundation and a proven strategy for driving growth in delivering greater value to both the patients we serve and our shareholders. Thank you all for being with us this morning, and thank you for your interest in Acadia. If you have any additional questions today, please don't hesitate to contact us directly. Have a great day.
