Christopher Ripley
Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (SBGI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks Dan. So, look, we have not had a blackout for quite some time. And we -- we hope that will be the case through 2024. Certainly, we knew we renewed Verizon and CPC. We have an active negotiation going on right now with Charter.

And through all of those and all the renewals we did in 2022, we have either met or exceeded our internal targets. So, we're very bullish on the renewal set that we have in front of us, and it's been so far so good.

Sure. So, we will continue to be opportunistic on both the equity and debt side as we always have been. We were last year. Our stakeholders, both equity and debt, have given us feedback that they would like us to focus on the leverage side. So, I think that's where we're going to be focused here likely in the near-term.

But we don't feel like we need to do anything special on the capital structure side. We should be heading into a natural deleveraging cycle here. We're going to produce significant free cash flow and so we like our position.

And on your second question around the sports streaming JV, our perspective on that is that it's an incremental development, not a game-changing development. We don't believe it's going to have mass customer or consumer appeal, but we are happy that our ABC and Fox stations are going to be included in this package and be paid for their content. So, it's a nice addition from that perspective. But we don't see it being necessarily a game changer in terms of the pay-TV environment.

So, in terms of churn, your first question, churn has been stable for us. We're still in mid-single-digits and that's what's reflected within our guidance. And I do want to make sure that it's clear, our -- we have turned the page on our guidance since -- we used to talk about 2022 to 2025, 2022 is kind of ancient history now. So, we're guiding for 2023, which is now in the books kind of from now to 2025 we see a mid-single-digit CAGR. We think that's a more useful guidance there.

But in terms of your question about confidence, we have obviously had several engagements over the last six months with very significant MVPDs. And I think we have a very good sense of the market where we are, what's ahead of us. We've also locked in pretty much all of our reverse for our big -- biggest three network affiliations that ABC, Fox and CBS. Those are multiyear agreements.

We only -- we have NBC, which is our smallest group, up at the end of this year. So, it's -- we have a lot of certainty on the reverse side, and we have good market data with major MVPDs with recent renewals that give us confidence for our outlook, which most of those deals that I mentioned really what will set in the next two years or even three years is going to be those renewals over the next 10 months.

No, there is no contingencies related to the broader restructuring. On Monday, the judge approved both the dip financing for Diamond, but also this settlement. So, that was the only sort of contingency that we had at the judge would need to approve.

There's some documentation that we're looking to finish up here in the next couple of days, but that should not be an issue in terms of getting to the finish line. And then from there, there's no other contingencies.

Let me jump in and then I'll let Rob add some color. But 1 of the things that affects our Q1 is that we have significant sporting events, including Super Bowl and March Madness. And we had Fox to the Super Bowl last year, and we had CBS do the Super Bowl this year.

We have way more Foxs than CBSs. But when you take out the impact of Super Bowl and March Madness, we're actually still trending in line with what we saw last year. So, the slowness, at least when you really dissect the numbers, it hasn't shown up yet. I'll let Rob add any more color if he wants.

That is something that will be determined over the next 60 days, the independent Board members of the two silos are going through a process to determine that.

Thank you for joining us today. If you have any additional questions, please do not hesitate to reach out to our IR department.
