Christopher Kastner
Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. (HII) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Miles, I'd also add that I obviously want to fact '24. These projects take a while to get implemented. But it does support the mid to long-term growth.

Yes. I'll start. So, we fundamentally believe the greatest source of value that we can achieve as a corporation, is to focus on our operational priorities right now and delivering our ships. So, you see that in the capital investments. And then we're fairly clear on our capital allocation priorities relative to investing in our investing in our shipyards, being investment grade, progressively improving our dividends, and then providing any remainder back to shareholders.

Now that being said, we're going to have optionality around M&A. We have the responsibility, to evaluate M&A projects from time-to-time. I don't see any significant holes in the portfolio right now. And operationally, I think our greatest focus needs to be on delivering our ships to our customer, because they need them.

So while we're not going to commit, to providing everything, back to shareholders on this call. We need to, we're forced to have a strong balance sheet and we can do everything. So that's how we're thinking about capital allocation moving forward.

Sure. Thanks, Gautam. The two VCS milestones, we're essentially complete with both of the operational commitments for those milestones. There were some late breaking changes on both of those boats that, needed to be implemented before we could claim victory, and finally achieve them, but we're essentially complete. The staffing has been significantly reduced, on each of the boats and it's been reallocated, to the other boats.

And no material financial issue related to those at all. On LPD 29, we ran into an issue going through the test program that we need to stop and do a root cause corrective action on. We've done that. The ship went to sea this week, performed well, we think we'll deliver that here late Q1, early Q2.

Now from '24 milestone impact, we're all aligned within the corporation relative to those milestones. It does put some pressure on the VCS milestones at the end of the year on 798 and 800, but we have detailed plans to achieve those and we're committed to getting those done.

No, there were no material financial issues related to those. Obviously on LPD 29, there is a bit of an opportunity lost there that, will recover when it ultimately gets delivered, but it's all included in our guidance.

Sure.

Good morning, Seth.

Yes, so we don't have inflation protection on the VCS program at this time. The supply chain is a challenge across all of our programs, actually. We do have EPA protection of the most part at Ingalls, and we're managing supply chain risk across the portfolio. The Navy is fully aware of this. We're very transparent about it. That's why the SIB funding is so important.

That's why getting three-year AP is so important. So, we could just eliminate that risk. But we evaluate our EACs every quarter and if there's risk we deal with it in that quarter. But it's not going away anytime soon. I think everyone understands that. That's why we have SIB funding being appropriated and authorized. And as soon as we can get that down into the supply chain, the better.

Good morning.

Well, there's time and shipbuilding is cost, right? So, we've probably lost a little opportunity there. It's not material in nature. And we'll do that. We'll take a step up if appropriate when we make final delivery. But it obviously would have been worth more if we did it at the end of the year.

Good morning, David.

Good morning.

Yes. So I'll start with that. The '24 budget is very positive for us. All our major programs are supported. LPD 33 is supported, which is really important to Ingalls. The submarine industrial base funding in the baseline budget is important. I think that's around $400 million, but the additional $3 billion in the supplemental, just further effort to improve the supply base.

And there's also funds within that to improve the labor force. So getting both of those approved is really important. Now our confidence relative to the guide is just on the demand for our products. We see the demand for nominated products in shipbuilding, both in Newport News and Ingalls, but also Mission Technologies. And when we laid it out, we looked at the investments we're making and the opportunity it just makes sense.

We're in a bit of an inflection point from a sales standpoint. And I actually think there's probably some tailwinds if we can get that summary industrial-based funding approved, executed and start improving throughput. Tom, do you have anything to add?

Good morning, Ron.

Yes. Ron, thanks for that question. It's definitely been a challenge over the last couple of years citing the exact example that you brought up. And the team has a number of initiatives they've implemented over the last year to address the situation, and they center around 3 fundamental issues, really, which is flexibility for the team that we're hiring in work schedules potential time off.

The craft person, man and women that we are now hiring is not fully prepared to come right into the workforce and start that kind of daily grind without having some flexibility in the work schedules. So, we have a number of pilots that we're working in that regard. We have some really interesting analytics around targeting geographies that we have better success in hiring and retaining.

So, we have initiatives there. And then we have very focused incentives on critical skills. An example is machinists where you have to just pay them more to get them and keep them. So a number of initiatives, we pivot very quickly because we have such good data on what works, or what is going to work and what does work. So, we can expand upon it. But you're hitting on a fundamental issue in the industry right now in the manufacturing industry as a whole.

And within defense and in shipbuilding is that the labor issue is obviously one of our major risk issues and one we're working very hard to resolve. I would also say the Navy understands it. And in the SIB funding, as I previously mentioned, there are workforce development issues as well. Getting people into the apprentice schools, because our retention rates in the apprentice schools.

And established programs are significantly higher because the people that go in there are choosing that as a profession. So it's something we're well aware of. Our partners are well aware of it and the Navy is well aware of it, and we're addressing it. We've seen some rays of light as we ended the year, but you can't really trust a couple of data points. So we're going to keep working on it this year.

Yes. So they've done a really good job, both on the VCS program and on the DDG program, it doesn't get enough as much press, but on the DDG program as well as identifying single source or sole source vendors, in the supply chain that need investment to increase capacity because as you know, capacity had dwindled a bit in the previous 10 to 15 years. So they've done a very good job targeting those suppliers and making investments.

And then there's some large critical material where there's a single source suppliers that are dealing with the same sort of labor and supply chain issues that we are. So to identify those potentially dual source them, or qualify an additional source is something that the Navy and we are looking at as well. So it's a very comprehensive review. I think it's managed very well by us and our partners. And I think it's going to get it the issue, but it doesn't turn overnight.

Good morning, Noah.

Yes. It's part of the total ship P&L, Noah.

Thanks for the question.

George, you're familiar with material timing, you can miss by a month to 2 months from time to time. It just came in at the end of the year. Now unfortunately, it impacts the guide for the next year, right? So you had to -- we had to include that. But it was just timing.

That's a good question, and I don't have that in front of me. That's a really good question. I don't have that in front of me. I know part of it -- I think a part of it is, but I couldn't quantify it for you. So we'll get that information for you, Scott.

Well, it has to be both, right? And we -- when we do our projections, we risk adjust them. It's not assuming that everything works out perfectly. So it has to be both. We have to improve our retention rates. We have to improve out of the supply chain, and we have to improve capacity. And if we do that, then throughput will significantly increase. But you're absolutely correct. We have to be successful in both.

Yes. Thank you, and thank you for joining the call today. I'm very proud of our team's strong performance last year, and I'm confident that we will continue to create value for our shareholders this year. I would also like to remind you that we are hosting an Investor Day on March 20 and look forward to seeing many of you then. Have a good afternoon.