Chris Pappas
The Chefs' Warehouse, Inc. (CHEF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Great question, Todd. Again, we continue to hire and train new salespeople to the team and that's been our engine driver for almost 40 years now. As much as we are using digital to grow awareness and take more and more of our orders, the actual orders that are coming in from customers, which is freeing up the sales team to go out and continue to open more customers.

It really is -- it's such an important part of our growth because natural attrition for various reasons as sticky as our customer base is, I mean, we've had customers now for over 30 years. You got to have new customers constantly coming in. It's just the nature of who we sell? We sell to independent restaurants and as they mature, their leases sometimes mature out and many other reasons why there's turnover but let's face it. Customers love new restaurants and restaurant tours like to open new restaurants. We feel that's where we're winning. Most of the customers that are opening in the territories that we sell, I think Chefs’ is the dominant partner and I think that's what's driving that number.

Thanks, Mark. No, the cadence in the quarter, I think, as you pointed out was pretty typical of a normal season prior to the many years that COVID volatility impacted seasonality. We talked about on our Q3 call. We saw strength in demand and margin in September coming out of the weaker summer months. I think October and November were kind of very typical October and November from a seasonal perspective. And then December was, I think the 1 December, the 3 weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas, that you really saw the corporate parties come back, the level of events come back to pre-COVID levels. I think in '22, you saw a little bit of that but it wasn't completely back, and so I think those were three very strong weeks, and that I think that really helped the quarter get back to what we would call a normal fourth quarter.

I would say we don't really predict inflation, but what we expect right now and what we see is, in aggregate, I mean, we have 70,000 products going through our distribution centers. Some are inflationary, some are deflationary, but in aggregate, what we've seen so far in the beginning of the year is kind of a continuation of what we saw in the fourth quarter, which was moderate kind of low to mid-single digit type of sequential and year-over-year inflation with a little bit of a mix on certain products. Right now, you have things that are cocoa based like chocolate, you have olive oil affected by droughts. You have a couple of daily dairy products that are inflationary. But overall, you're kind of seeing moderate inflation so far this year and we kind of expect that to continue.

I think things are going very well, Kelly. I think the team has their arms around the acquisitions from the past 2 years, and you could see from our growth, we call it hybrid growth. I call it right now. As companies become comfortable as part of with The Chefs' Warehouse a family of companies. We sought to share best practices in many of the acquisitions we've already put them on our computer systems. They could start to see other warehouses and what products are available and the sales team starts to meld together. I think that's really what's been the driving force behind our continued growth for the past many years.

We are not at anywhere near the finish line of what our expectations are, but every day we get better and I think that shows in the numbers. We continue to cross sell each other's customers and that's really the focus, right? We built these new warehouses and continue to build the warehouses and markets that we have three, four independent businesses. We are here in Florida today and this is one of our newest facilities, where we are able to sell proteins and dairy and some produce and all our specialty and dry goods and combine them on the same trucks and we'll continue to get the synergies and that's what's going to drive the bottom line over the next many years.

From the street perspective, I think we always see some new people. What we hear from all our leaders is, again, everything is so expensive today. When you hire people, the benefits are really expensive that's if you put them on the road, car expenses are very expensive. I think our view as you know continue to use technology to free our team up. I think that it's going more and more into what I call a team sell. I think I've been saying this for the past five, seven years that my vision is there's over 1,000 people in the sales department with all our companies. It's quite a big people in sales, but it's really leveraging them and having them do more calls on new customers, more calls to their existing customers, introducing new products, as we continue to integrate in all the regions that we have Chefs' Warehouse protein businesses now with our other businesses and now produce.

So it's really doing more with less. I think that's the key and I think every company is facing that and is trying to do the same thing whether you're one of the giant $70 billion public companies or you're a small independent in the marketplace, you're going to have to get leverage because everything is more expensive. Everything is inflated especially the last five years. It's so important to get more efficient and larger drops to get the leverage on your overhead.

Yes. Kelly, just to add a little bit -- a little more insight to that. Again, I think ever since COVID, everybody, all our partners in from over 2,000 suppliers in 40 countries, kind of have adapted. Everybody keeps more inventory now because the world is in a pretty volatile state, right, with two wars going on and we've got climate change impacts. So, I think everyone's gotten kind of ahead of it, right? So, in the U.S., like Jim said, I think everybody was -- everybody always anticipates some sort of disruption. So we're kind of way ahead of it.

Our inventory is fine, the team is all over it. And as Jim said, in Dubai, which is our major warehouse, they had a great December. Business was strong and I think any pressure came because it was so strong, the demand was there. And it's an incredible team there that is very seasoned and they're accustomed to dealing with something going with the logistical challenges and they try to get ahead of it way before something happens. So I think we're good.

Yes. Thanks, Andy. Every market is unique, right? So obviously, New York is our first business and our biggest market and our biggest business out of one Opco, right? San Francisco is quite big when you look at all the businesses that we own. So each -- we go through a very, very thoughtful process before we make an acquisition. And as you know, you've been following us for a long time. To get the footprint, we've had to it's much more effective unless you're annexing the market next to you, which is typical in the distribution business, right? If you're a typical distributor, which we're not, we always say we're a marketing company that also distributes and that's our strength, right, with over a thousand of our own vehicles in the streets every day. We control most of our own destiny bringing these wonderful products to market.

So, in the case of Texas, since we're talking about it, the thought process of we know Texas is going to be a big market. Obviously, a lot of people have moved to Texas and continue to move to Texas for various reasons in the past 5, 6 years. More of our customers are opening to Texas. They want us to serve them there. And now we have an Allen Brothers cut shop facility which is doing phenomenal. We have a Chefs' Warehouse which we put together with some small acquisitions just to get enough business to get the warehouse moving. We bought some noncore businesses, but that's when we realized what an opportunity it was because there really was nobody in Texas to buy who was like -- that's always the great thing is there's nobody like Chefs’ really that puts the amount of 2,000 artists and vendors from around the world together in one building and has the logistical expertise and the ability to train a sales force, which does take time.

So really, when we looked at Hardie’s, they were not at Chefs' Warehouse, their margins weren't, their bottom line wasn't anywhere near Chefs' Warehouse. But over the next 5, 10 years, we continue to -- it was a great company. We're changing the way they go-to-market. We're selling more and more independent restaurants. We're starting to add Chefs' Warehouse products to their trucks and that's really the March. And you've watched us do this year -- for many years right now.

And as we grow --- as we did in New England, New England was similar, we bought Sid Wainer, a great company, great people and we kind of shrunk their business and we're growing them more as a Chefs’ Warehouse with more of our products on their trucks and they're starting to look more and more like a Chefs' Warehouse, right? They're marching towards the EBITDA margins that we expect in our businesses. And I think that's what you're going to start to see in Texas and in most markets where we've made these investments.

So, it's pretty exciting times. I always look at it as we own a bunch of stadiums and the stadiums are doing great and you have to add more seats to do more business. And as you're adding and building those seats, it costs money. It's a drag on your overall percentage when you look at your capital. But as the stadium seats start to open and you start to fill them, you start to get a great return on your investment. And I think that's the way we look at it.

Thanks for the question, Peter. Yes, absolutely. I couldn't be more optimistic than I am right now that things are going as planned. Everything takes a little time, right? You got to get your systems in, the warehouse set up and we are still in the first inning. But Florida is growing at a very rapid pace and every day we are selling more and more items to the customers that we had as we start to fill up the warehouse. Florida is going to be top four markets over the next five years and so is Texas.

Texas is taking a little longer because we didn't have the facilities. We're operating at a multiple facilities right now, as we're starting to figure it out. You got Austin, you got San Antonio, you got Dallas, you got Houston. It's a very large place. It's a country in itself. But every day the team is making headway as sales people start to get comfortable with the thousands of items. Even though we hire a lot of chefs who understand food, it's really understanding how to go-to-market, sell against your competition. But the reason we've made these investments is we are so encouraged to see the reception we get, when we start to enter a market and you're hitting on two probably of our big long-term growth markets, Texas and Florida. And absolutely we're starting to sell more items to these customers.

Yes. Thanks for the question. Again, Chefs' being the little guy of the all the public companies that were measured against. We had to acquire to get the footprint and now the focus has shifted on we've created by the end of the year, we'll probably have 60% more capacity, so the focus is on hyper charging organic growth. And of course, we're always opportunistic. We've always been opportunistic. So we're not looking to do anything major in new territory and we've already stated what our CapEx forecast is going to be. So we're focused on creating more cash, pay down some debt and maybe buy back shares, but there's a great fold in which could speed up some of the -- and that we don't want to fill up all our capacity that's why we build it, we want to grow into it.

But some of these little tuck in acquisitions could be extremely profitable and help us on our march to our EBITDA goals. So we're always looking, people are always calling, but the real focus right now to drive the organic growth because we have -- we finally have good capacity in a lot of our new major markets like we've said Florida and Los Angeles, our new processing facility is opening in San Francisco, hopefully in this quarter and we're going to consolidate a whole bunch of businesses into one state-of-the-art facility. So, we got a lot of exciting things happening in the next year and two.

Yes. Thank you for everybody for joining our call. I couldn't be prouder of the team at Chefs' and what they're accomplishing. We look forward to many, many great things from this team and look forward to everyone joining our next call. Thank you very much. Have a great day.
