Chris Hufnagel
Wolverine World Wide, Inc. (WWW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Jon. I think it's a great question talking about the shape of the business and how we're thinking about it and importantly, how we're trying to manage the portfolio going forward. we had talked a couple of weeks ago about sort of tempered expectations in the first half, and we sort of provided some clarity on both the internal and external factors that are sort of suppressing growth in the first half, but I do think that there are a number of reasons to believe in the second half.

I think certainly, the corrective actions we've taken internally as it relates to product. I think we're encouraged by the product pipeline and we talked about what Saucony has delivering, the Ride and Guide 17, the Triumph 22, the Hurricane 24, all of those things are a really good product introductions. And I think the Saucony pipeline is much stronger this year than it was last year.

I think Merrell is similar, the Moab Speed 2 just dropped. We're seeing really good pickup on that, really good reception, the Agility Peak 5, and then some of the lifestyle collections around wrapped. When Merrell can develop on trend, on brand product that looks different, consumers respond. So at the same time we also need to invest back in our brands.

We talked about constraining some of the operating margin expansion this year and the spirit of investing back into our brands and back into our tools. And I think we will begin to see the fruits of those investments in the back half of this year. And then just in the marketplace, I think certainly continuing to have cleaner inventories, which is encouraging. We're seeing inventories come down. We're seeing our ASPs go up. We are attacking rogue selling. I think from a brand protection standpoint, we got lacked and we didn't do a good enough job protecting our brands, and we're beginning to see the benefit of that.

And then just frankly, we're going to lap some easier comparisons in the back half of the year for some of the reasons that, that Mike called out. So I'm optimistic looking at the back half of the year. I understand the question around the shape of the business. At the same time, I think there are a number of reasons to believe our ability to go execute against that.

And then, Jim, let me just add on to there, Jim. You followed our story for a long period of time and sort of know where we've been as a company and the work we had to do coming out of this fall. I think, importantly, we really put our heads down and I appreciate you recognizing the hard work to really stabilize the organization, attack the inventory, pay down the debt, restructure the business, the biggest restructuring in the history of the company we did last fall. And then we've said that margin improvement will lead inflection to growth because we want to grow the business the right way. And we did the hard work around the margin. We certainly are encouraged by what we have line of sight and we can deliver this year. And then everyone is pivoting towards the inflection to growth. So, that's where the story that we've laid out for the last six months, and we're going to keep working against that plan.

Yes, we don't disclose backlog, and we have not done that. I do think, and we're getting – continue to see encouraging signs on the new products. And obviously, a lot of the growth that we have planned for the back half of the year and the inflection to growth and the improvement in the business is really driven by the new product introductions, sort of coming out of the pandemic and the supply chain issue, we were heavy in core. And I think we all know that newness and innovation is winning with the consumer. And I do think our product pipelines weren't as innovative as they need to begin in 2023. So, that focus in Saucony and the core force are early indications in the Ride and Guide 17 are positive, and we'll launch the Triumph 22 and the Hurricane 24 in quarters two and three sequentially. And then we'll come back in Merrell. Moab Speed 2 is already out. We're really encouraged by initial sell-throughs and the feedback and then Agility Peak 5 and a handful of other collections.

And the Moab 3, we don't talk a lot about the Moab 3, but that that continues to check and we're more encouraged by that. So I think from a wholesale landscape perspective, we're staying very close. We all know that wholesalers are continuing to act differently. I think we altered to know that for some brands they're the challenge macro landscape in wholesale, but I think it's part of our turnaround effort too is just reengaging those wholesale partners in a more meaningful way. The number of top-to-tops we've done over that past six months has – I think has been critically important. I've done – I've listened a lot to what the wholesalers and their partners are looking for Wolverine from, what they're getting from other brands and how we can ultimately better. I think that has been very well time spent. So I think, in general, I think about the back half of the year, it's largely driven on the innovation that we're bringing. And that is also why I'm encouraged by what we have line of sight to in 2025.

Thanks, Jim.

Yes, great question, Abbie. I'll hit it straight on. I think at the highest level, the outdoor category has been pressured, probably one of the worst-performing categories in the market for the past 12 months. I think as – and we're not going to sit behind that and say it's just a category issue, as the category leader, which Merrell is, Merrell has to innovate and help lead that category, which is why I'm encouraged by some of the new product introductions. The Moab Speed 2, which I've already referenced, a lighter, faster, more athletic version of the world's number one hiking boot, which is the Moab. I think the Agility Peak 5 is the evolution of the trail. The trail is certainly evolving. Specifically, market share gains – in the last quarter, Merrell gained 30 basis points and 60 basis points in hike and trail run, respectively, and for the full year, up over 100 basis points and 70 basis points respectively, in both of those categories. So that is share gains, albeit in a contracting category.

I think the future of the outdoor category is lighter and faster and more athletic and more versatile. And I think certainly predicated on not just function, but also style. And I think that's where – in Merrell, we can work harder is really hitting that style piece and designing great looking shoes that are versatile that not – can only not only be worn in the trail, but also can be worn for everyday wear. So I think the onus is on the category leader to help reinvent. I think the reinvention is lighter and faster. And I think the work we've done on the pipeline is important. Another reason why the Merrell Test Lab is so important to us, this elite trail running incubator for great product, the design awards we've won in Merrell for the past handful of years around that run the MTL product is critical and important and honestly some of the best products in the market. So tough category, leader has to lead, gaining share, and we have to be out in front of the evolving trends.

Thanks, Abbie.

Yes. I'll hit it, and then Mike can add on. We have new leadership in Sweaty Betty, which we're very encouraged by. I think we've worked hard on the integration for the past year, and I think certainly feel much closer to that business. And I've spent a lot of time with Sweaty Betty over the past handful of months, trying to understand that business. I think the decline in the first quarter is really driven by just becoming a less promotional business, and that business was very promotional last year. And I think that rings to for a lot of our brands. And I'll come back to Sweaty Betty, but in the latter part of last year, we pulled back on promotions at our own dot-com business, and we saw meaningful improvements in gross margin running a healthier business. We're executing the same strategy in the first half of this year to be less promotional as well. That's also why you're seeing some of the uptick – also a contributor to our overall gross margin improvement, but ultimately running better brands and enhancing and protecting brand equity.

So, the drag in the first quarter for Sweaty Betty really is being a less promotional business. I was encouraged by the way that team performed in the back half of last year over the holiday season, some really strong product reception. That brand has a very fanatical, strong following of female consumers who love that brand, they stay very close to that. The power, franchise, best-in-class fit, premium materials, on-trend designs and then their ability to extend beyond just that core bottoms business.

Really encouraged by the outerwear business, the Nimbus and the Navigate, were really good styles for us, up strong double digits year-over-year. And then the ability to grow in addition categories, mid-layers, accessories and stocks are all very encouraging. So I am excited by the potential of that brand. It is a very competitive market, no doubt. That is well noted. We understand that. At the same time, I think, Sweaty Betty has a very unique positioning, a premium brand, largely direct-to-consumer, predicated on great design, great materials, great research and development, and then great fit and then just cultivating a very loyal fan base.

There is a lot of things we can learn across the Wolverine portfolio from Sweaty Betty. And I think the Wolverine Worldwide organization is bringing a lot of benefit to Sweaty Betty as well. They plugged into our supply chain. We've done some gross margin improvement initiatives with them that have really helped. And we are speeding up the supply chain. We now have the ability in Sweaty Betty to react to fast-moving styles in a matter of weeks to replenish those things, which I love coming from retail apparel background, just that fast reaction time, I think, is a competitive advantage. So there is still work to go do for sure in that brand. Hopefully, that explains a little bit of the first quarter drag, but certainly optimism moving from there.

Yes. Great question, Sam, and I appreciate it. And I appreciate you talking about our work group. No doubt, our work group is struggling a bit right now. We've talked about that. The Wolverine brand specifically has been an industry leader, but we had a tough year there for sure, and we have lost share. Working really closely with that team to understand where those share losses are happening, we are seeing more at the premium price points than at the $90 to $120 alert [ph] price point. There are new introductions coming this year to bolster that more premium positioning DuraShocks, the Surge, the Colorado Equipped. We feel good about those and our ability to gain back at that $140 to $60 price point.

We think inventories are much better now in the channel. And in some places, I think, our sell-throughs are outpacing sort of the restocks and our ability to get close to that market and replenish that business. We do think the category is going to grow. But I think, Sam, to your point that has been sort of a very sort of steady on business for us, very consistent. We've struggled there a little bit over the past year. And there is an intense focus to get that work group back to its more historical range.

I think the team has diagnosed the issues. What we did, what was self-inflicted, and then our ability to understand both channel and price point and category and then capitalizing those trends, there is a strong western trend right now. And the brand is pushing into that western trend as well. But we certainly think that premium price point is where the brand has felt some pressure.

And I think also, just to build that, we've also made some tough decisions as it relates to how we're going to manage our brands. And I think how we want – our ability to reset the business and just manage the portfolio differently. Another thing working against Saucony they had a very low margin sort of value channel product that we are moving away from that wasn't helping build brand equity that was not accretive to the brand's margin in total, and we're making the tough decisions to move past those businesses.

So I think there is a lot of different reasons why the business is where it is. But in total, as we think about how to best manage the portfolio, how to best be great brand stewards, I think, we are making a lot of those very tough decisions right now and then working to really improve the product pipeline, investment is back into marketing to ultimately become really good brand builders. So that's just another reason why I'm trying to explain some of the color behind the numbers.

I will take it and Mike can add on. I think certainly, to your point, Sam I think, we are viewing the marketplace differently in how we manage the brands. I do think the product we have is really good. And I would say the product we introduced in 2023, I think, our innovation fell flat in 2023, and I think, the consumer responded to newness, and we were heavy in core styles that didn't check which put a lot of pressure on 2023 and certainly continue to put pressure on us in the first quarter of this year.

But when I look across the portfolio and the work that we've done around the product pipeline, I am encouraged by what we have both what we have hit in the marketplace today. The Ride, Guide 17 and Saucony are a good example, the Triumph will quickly follow it. The Moab Speed 2 out of the gate is very good. The new wrapped collection, which I keep referencing, really selling out with almost no marketing because it is just visually disruptive and just looks different and it is a variant brand.

So I think the product pipeline is much, much stronger than where we have been historically, and I am excited to sort of continue to work through those older core styles and get to the newness. That's where the consumer is responding. That's what the retailers are telling us is working what they want.

And in fact, we have a new protocol every Tuesday, just a full deep dive into the business, and we had our session yesterday, and we're having different conversations. We're talking about chasing new products. We're talking about – perception that we have seen, feedbacks that we're getting, and we're actually talking about chasing products in our supply chain today, where we haven't had those conversations for a while. I get on the plane next week with the Presidents of Merrell and Saucony to go to Vietnam, to go to our biggest factories, both to accelerate products that are in development and talk about how we can continue to chase other items. So the fact that we’re talking about chasing new good styles and chasing products that we want to accelerate into the pipeline, I think is a very encouraging place for us to be right now.

Yes. I think I’ll hit it and I’ll let Mike add some color. I think part of the turnaround and one of the things that I talked about on the last quarterly call was just how close we were to the wholesale market, how close we were to the partners. I do think the conversations are different today than they were just a handful of months ago. As we think about the outdoor category specifically and frankly how they view Merrell within their assortment. I think we all know that the pressures are well documented in the outdoor category.

Merrell continues to be the leader, continues to gain share, and we keep seeing retailers keeping protecting Merrell. I think the important thing for the Merrell brand is to evolve behind that sort of classic Moab 3 silhouette and become lighter and faster and more athletic, which is why we’re so excited about how the Moab speed 2 has been received and then our entree into trail run. And the fact that we’re gaining share in trail run is very encouraging. I think we’re paying very close attention to our own direct-to-consumer business too and what’s happening in our 46 Merrell outlet stores.

Where is traffic? What are they buying? What are they responding to? We’re working to be less promotional at merrell.com. And we’re seeing sort of great increases in product margin to be less promotional and certainly to create less disruption in the marketplace. And I think Merrell has new introductions coming for the balance of the year. And then continued health, we’ve got continued health of the Moab franchise. We talked about the Jeep [ph] launch last year, 70 million impressions. The [indiscernible] sold out to the piece and we saw a 12% lift across the rest of the Moab franchise just by bringing that new heat to that category. So I think, like I said, I think the pressure in outdoor is it remains. Hopefully that will bottom out and it’ll begin to resuscitate. At the same time, we just can’t sit back and say it is what it is. The leader has to innovate, and I think we’re bringing product to market that is very good.

Yes, great question. Saucony is near and dear to my heart right now. I think Saucony has probably some of the greatest potential in the entire portfolio to have to break out. I think there’s a lot of things working against Saucony from a top line standpoint. We talked about some of them, the end-of-life transactions, the low margin business. We talked about the model changes. I’m encouraged by Saucony because I think the product pipeline is very good. And I think the brand has a very long period of time been sort of myopically focused on sort of both the Elite runner and the Elite channels and Elite products. And I think the democratization of innovation is where there is a tremendous opportunity.

And so I think the new products we’ve launched are resonating well with the feedback we’re getting and we’re prelining new styles is very positive. And there’s frankly just a broader lifestyle opportunity beyond that core runner. We’ve worked hard on colors and materials to make our shoes more approachable and we’re opening the apertures. We think about distribution. As we think about some of our new product launches, they’ve placed in sort of top 10 list and run specially where Saucony hasn’t been for years. And so we’re encouraged by those.

And then if you just go back to the Elite runner, when you look at Saucony counts at the prominent marathons, Saucony is one of the top brands day in and day out in those leading marathons. And then there’s just a broader lifestyle opportunity as well. And I think that as we think about lifestyle, it’s not just that originals or retro tech. It’s also just everyday Saucony run, which I think has tremendous opportunities.

So I’m very bullish on Saucony. That category has the most momentum. There are some brands that have done phenomenally well there. We know that we have underperformed. At the same time, I think we’ve attacked the product piece first and that is encouraging. And we will be turning on the marketing. And I think as we think about the $30 million of incremental investment, I think a significant portion of that will be directed to Saucony. So I’m bullish on Saucony. I’m bullish on that team, and I think the opportunity is there.

Thank you, Mauricio.