Chris Cocks
Hasbro (HAS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. I think perhaps Gina and I will answer this question. Good morning, Eric. Generally speaking, we're feeling pretty good about where our retail situation is. In the U.S. and Europe, in terms of retail inventory, we're down about 20% year-over-year. That translates to about a four-week improvement on the supply. So between Europe and the U.S., we generally have about 17 to 20 weeks of supply at our major retailers, which is about what we'd like to see. It's about what our normal is pre-pandemic. So generally speaking, that means we neither see retail inventory as a tailwind nor a headwind, which is nice because over the last year or so, it's been decidedly a headwind as retailers have been trying to right size their inventories. I think if we have any concerns inside of retail, it's that there's still a lot of industry discounted merchandise, particularly in what we would call the growth channel or kind of like value resellers.

That's going to take a quarter or two to work through. But again, based on our inventory position, we have very little aged inventory and any aged inventory we have has a PO associated with it. So we feel in a generally good position. Gina, anything to add?

Yes, for sure. So last year, we were fortunate in that both MAGIC and D&D were growers for us. The MAGIC tabletop business was up probably in the 3% to 5% range. We had a little bit of attrition on digital, but still the business was up low single digits. And D&D was up over 75% on a total brand basis. I think the contributors for D&D's growth last year will be very similar to what they'll be moving forward. We continue to think D&D Beyond was an excellent acquisition. It really is the way increasingly people are playing tabletop role-playing games. I think it's an excellent platform for us to build upon and expand the ways that people can play, the ways that people can experience theater of the mind. And also for us to distribute and showcase a more diverse set of content, whether that's Universes Beyond style content, like we do with MAGIC, or our major creators content or user-generated content.

So I think you'll see more from that on the tabletop side. We continue to have a robust entertainment slate on D&D that we're working with several partners behind, notably the new streaming series from Paramount that we're partnering with them on. And then video games will clearly be a huge leg up on the D&D business. Baldur's Gate III is one of the seminal role-playing games of all time. It's won multiple games of the year awards. Our partners at Larian really knocked it out of the park with that and were fantastic to work with. Baldur's Gate III is just the first of several new video games that will be coming out over the next 5 to 10 years that I think will continue to power that franchise. And really, I think the three combined, continued innovation on tabletop, powered by D&D Beyond, targeted entertainment, working through partners in an asset-light model, and then great video game content through licensees and through our own internal studios. I think the future is bright for that brand.

As you think about the back half, Chris, I'd be really looking at Beyblade X as a huge launch for us. It did many orders of magnitude larger in the launch in Japan last year versus Beyblade Burst from 2016. We're expecting it to be quite a runner and the early feedback from the toy fairs is our retailers are getting behind it as well. We have some really cool innovation across price points for Play-Doh that I think will continue to the run on that brand, both building share and building point of sale and sell-in. And then we have quite a lineup of board games that will be coming out throughout the year. But generally speaking, we have a good Q4 for our board games and we think this year will be no exception.

Sure. So last year, we did six premier sets per year, which is like large sets that go across formats. I think last year five of our six premier sets eclipsed $100 million. I don't think we have a specific forecast for each of the premier sets this year, but we will have six sets this year. We think actually we'll have probably slightly less kind of secondary sets or secondary SKUs associated with MAGIC. And so we're projecting flat to slightly down for the brand. So I think you can do the math and say it's roughly about the number of equivalent sets that are hitting that $100 million bogey. As you think about Universes Beyond, last year we had our first what we would call premier set for Universes Beyond that was Magic Lord of the Rings. That did over $200 million in under six months. This year we have some smaller Universes Beyond sets. The first one's going to be fallout, which will come up in March. That won't be at the same scale or size, but we'll do better than what a typical commander set would do. But starting in 2025, we're going to have two premier Universes Beyond sets as part of our mix.

And we believe the brands that will be shipping in 2025 have the same kind of carrying power as the Lord of the Rings. The one that we've announced will be in the front half of the year, and that's Final Fantasy, which is just a juggernaut in role-playing games. We've announced partnerships with a host of other brands, Marvel being one of the last ones that we kind of talked about. There'll be multiple sets associated with that. So for ‘25 going forward, you should expect to see as part of our six premier sets per year, two of them will be Universes Beyond branded. And we think we'll have a similar uplift to what we experienced with Lord of the Rings. And so that's underlaying a lot of our bullishness on the growth for MAGIC.

Yes, no worries. Hey, Arpine, by the way, I heard you have a new child. Congratulations.

We always appreciate it when people make customers.

I would say that guidance holds. The D&D brand and our games portfolio overall is trucking along at a similar pace as we expected. That guidance was more of a 2027-ish timeframe. I think a little bit will depend on certain calendars associated with certain video games and there's a certain amount of schedule slippage that you get with that. But generally speaking we feel good about the trajectory of the brand and as I mentioned in Eric's question kind of like the three core pillars that underlie it.

Hey, Andrew. Yes, I would say for starting in 2026, we'll probably have one major new digital game that we'll publish. And then ‘27 to ‘30, it'll be anywhere between one to two, depending on how the schedules kind of shake out. From a licensing perspective, I think you should generally see our licensing business after taking maybe a little bit of a step back this year, just given the Baldur's Gate III launch bulge. Take a little bit of step back this year, but then it will grow sequentially every year as we just expand the number of licensors and games like Monopoly Go! continue to mature and become more profitable for us. We're constantly adding new licensors to the mix, so it's a little difficult to give you a lot of precise guidance about kind of like the mix between mobile or kind of like some of like the casino gambling that we that we also licensed to or PC and console. But generally speaking, our license mix tends to be more mobile and casino gambling than it would be PC and console because that's where we're going to tend to focus our publishing efforts.

Well, I think it's generally speaking all the above. However, I think the special emphasis for Universes Beyond is new player growth. The Lord of the Rings was by far and away the most successful product at bringing in new players into the franchise that we've ever released. We would anticipate that would be the same or potentially even greater for IPs like Lord of the Rings or Marvel or some of the future things that we have in store. So, it's a great way for us to kind of expand the base of users and grow kind of like future sets over time.

I would say, good morning, Jaime, I would say it's largely done. There might be one or two more and we would announce those deals within the next month or two. And then I would say moving forward, you should think about us as net brand creators.

Yes, hey, good morning, Jason. In Q4, we were down around 12% or 13% on our internal point of sale measurements. When you factor out some of the exited licenses that we didn't comp, it was more down around negative 9% in the quarter, which roughly tracks around what the industry did. We think the industry did between negative 9% and negative 10%. For the full fiscal year, we were down negative 10% to negative 11% based on our internal point of sale tracking and kind of exited brands. We were down about negative 6%, which again, roughly tracks with kind of what our feeling is for the industry. In terms of our call for industry trends moving forward, I think generally speaking, we think the prevailing trends that existed in the back half of 2023 are likely going to persist into at least the first half of 2024 and probably into the second half of 2024. We still have a little bit of a correction from pre-COVID kind of toy share of wallet that we think we're experiencing in markets like the U.S. We do see growth in places like Latin America and Southeast Asia.

And we generally are kind of thinking that once we get through 2024, we're largely past that kind of post-COVID correction and we start getting back into a toy market, which from our planning purposes, we're basically projecting to be around flat and that based on our innovation and the marketing that we're putting together and just the general kind of fundamental health of the business that we're reinjecting into it, that we can grow at that level or likely ahead of that level and build some share, particularly in the categories we're focused on.

Well, I would say our projection for the industry is probably on the more cautious side than what most independent analysts or other toy companies would have. So I think we're going in with the cautious outlook. I also think we have a lot of tools in our quiver in terms of cash liquidity. We've got $1 billion, $1.8 billion of cash liquidity in options. Should we have to get, whether a down quarter or two, that is worse than what we're predicting. And our new management team, I think, is showing quite indebtedness at cost management and supply chain management. So there are levers that we have to pull. We feel quite confident in our ability to execute against our capital allocation priorities, which are investing in the business for long term growth, continuing to give money back to shareholders via our dividend and in achieving our long term deleverage targets, which is 2.5 or less.

Yes, and just for strategic context, Steven, and thanks by the way for being the anchorman on the questions for us. Our investments in digital and digital gaming, they are foundational to the future of the company. It is something we have been investing in for the last seven years. It is something that I think you should anticipate that we will at least maintain if not grow over the next three to five years. It is going to be a material source of value creation, particularly in the game side of our business moving forward. I think we already see that it can work and work fantastically well with what we have been doing with licensing partners, particularly with Monopoly Go! and Baldur's Gate III last year and great acquisitions like we made with D&D Beyond. And I think you are going to see more and more value creation as we go through ‘24, ‘25 and into ‘26.