Chris Koch
Carlisle Companies, Inc. (CSL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. I think, Tim, we thought 2023, given the significant sales declines, we thought pricing held up really well. through most of the year, it fluctuated, but I would say it was stable. When we look back, we've got a couple of components in there too. We've got the core roofing. We've got the CAM we've got Europe and we've got some mix. And so I think, overall, I'd characterize it as stable and going to this year, I think it will be pretty much the same thing as what Kevin was talking about with the 2% to 3%. But again, it's early. It's Q1. it's January.

But I think definitely, given all the declines last year, I thought the pricing held in there and maybe that gets to some of this pricing to value and what we're providing and others are providing.

Well, I think it's still -- there's a good backlog. Obviously, when new construction was cooking there, we had some backlog. We've got the labor constraints. We tend to look at it at a macro level.

We've gone through the chart with looking back 20 years and what's coming due. We know we have our share of the market that when it is warranted, we also know when those roofs are coming due. We think that the average roof in the industry is a 20-year roof based upon our warranties. I mean there are longer warranties you can buy, but on average, it could be about 20 years.

So we track all that. I think the thing is you're talking about a very dispersed demand pallet across the entire United States is this reroofing. And you've got some things in there where you can patch and some people will repair and the place early. Others may delay a variety of functions.

But I think overall, we try to get a sense through surveys. We talked about two surveys we did last year with about 600 contractors talking about what was happening in their markets around the country. And then obviously, Steve Schwar, Frank Reddy and their sales teams are out there every day talking to them. So we think the visibility is pretty good. I think those other things just create some difficulty in pinning it down. So as we go in, as Kevin said, we're looking at that 11% on the tailwind from destocking.
And I think if we look at the industry in general, we're back at that mid-single digits that we've been at historically, the combination between reroofing and new construction, and we think reroofing is holding up well.

Yes, yes. I think going in the year, that's how we're thinking about it. A little pressure on new construction from interest rates and the economy and then reroofing, picking that up with the backlogs Yes, exactly.

Bryan, thanks.

I can talk about the pipeline, if you want to. Did you want to ask any more about the share repurchases. We get 3 things there. I think maybe just pause and make sure you get everything you need on share repurchases.

Yes. And then we'll get this optimal capital structure. Yes. The M&A pipeline has been a little bit, I think, all the way around slow. We are seeing deals. We'd like to see more, hopefully, we see things free up a little bit more as the spring gets here, interest rates change a little bit. But I think we're following kind of the same pattern you're seeing with everyone else that just '23 was not a great year for M&A and probably not a great year for people selling their businesses.

So we're still optimistic there are things out there we can add to the building products portfolio and the envelope. I mean, as a reminder, as we said in Vision 2030, we're going to be really, we have some really specific hurdles for of them. We want to have an organic growth story within the asset that we're buying. We want to make sure that there are really hard synergies like we had with Henry, not just sales synergies and things that are hope for, but real raw material savings and plant savings like we did with Henry.

We want to have a really good management team. And this is the one that I think in the Henry acquisition has been the hardest in the past is to get that type of management team that we had coming in with Henry that just right off the bat picks up the integration playbook, which is number 4. And then they run with it, and we get -- I don't know if you've heard recently, but the synergies we estimate of $30 million with the Henry deal. Now we've exceeded $50 million.

And a lot of that really is to that great management team that great integration playbook and now pause once they were acquired. So when you layer those things on, I think we're a little bit more picky than most, but I think Henry is a great example of what we want to do with M&A, and I think there are more out there like that, just harder to find. And then Kevin will pick up on the capital structure.

Yes. I think, Garik, the biggest thing for me is this idea that this interest rate environment that we've been facing in the economy, I mean, we're not unique in this idea that we're going into the year.

First, we hear there's going to be three interest rate cuts, okay, that's super positive. We like that. Then we hear now, we're going to pull back on that. I think cash carry came out, [indiscernible] said and said maybe it's too soon to talk about that. So we've got that. We've got the economy that everybody is on pins and needles about with, obviously, employment and other things like that.

So I think as we sit here, the hard thing for us to do is to be sitting in January, which is in the first quarter, our lightest, as Kevin mentioned, 20% of overall sales and trying to forecast that with the real construction season is going to be in the spring and summer. So right now, we're saying, as we did on the 2030 video that things are relatively stable and they're moving along as we expect -- and so we're kind of looking at historical averages, really what we get from the market, what our sales teams are telling us what we're seeing in project pipeline. We also get to things like value but we actually read your reports. When you do your surveys and your pulse checks and those kind of things and take all into account.

So I think the biggest thing for us is just -- it all feels optimistic right now, and we like that. But when we get down to granularity, I'm looking at the economy to be the biggest variable. And then we look at specifically into some of the verticals. And when you look at '24, we see that continued, I'd say, pressure on warehouses, specifically. But to call out one that seems to be the biggest decliner would probably be warehouses. I think Dodge has it somewhere in the high teens, low 20s forecast for '24. Education looks pretty good.

Retail stores, health care, we still think there's a trend there. And seems to be happening with aging population that we'll see more long-term care. Medical seems to be good. There seems to be a lot of money in medical. And then we get the reshoring of manufacturing, which think Dodge estimated was somewhere around 8% in '23. And then I think the last 1 really is the office building. So we don't deal on the tall buildings that we had Citicorp and there was a lot of distress there with the work from home, but we're more in the low 3, 4-story buildings, and we think that's good and suburban office buildings have been pretty good. So that's kind of how we see the verticals then. I think we just layer in the reroofing on top of that.

And obviously, that's a little bit less vertical dependent and more dependent on the age of the -- so again, optimistic about '24. I think specifically, if we are -- continue to see the economy perform as it is, and we do get a couple of cuts that could be a pretty good year going forward, especially with the fact that I would say that there's been -- we have the destocking, but we haven't really had in this winter period, a return to restocking, which typically back four or five years ago before COVID, the result was a load-in in the spring in the March, April time frame. So there may be some of that to -- if the economy turns around and things look good.

Yes, we think it picked up probably about two days of positive weather.

Yes. I think for market share, I don't know, I don't want to get contentious. I would say that during COVID, I would say there were a couple of phases to it. And maybe in the first phase when we came out, if you might recall, we had actually built inventory going into COVID when others were declining. And when we came out, we captured a lot of share. So there was demand we had at others weren't able to provide. And that was part -- attributed to our belief of the Carlisle experience, providing a lot of value to our contractors, the right place, right product, right time, right?

So we picked up share then. Then we did get through and is the time went on. We had others that implemented different types of techniques to get out into the market and to sell things. They handle their approach to direct sales to contractor may be different? Or are they funded distribution in a different way. And I think you're right.
As we chose a path under, I think we call it our MSP program, we made some decisions. And one decision was we felt it was better to I would say, be more democratic in our approach to funding distributors, we didn't put all the eggs with the biggest distributors of contract because we make sure that all of our long-standing customers got a little bit so that everybody could survive. So we may have suffered a little bit there.

And then I think there was some pricing as we came out into '23, that some attempts to gain share through that in the first quarter -- in the first quarter of the year, which could acerbated the destocking. But ultimately, things guide, as we've already touched on, it was a very stable year for pricing so things came back. And so really, when I look at the time I've been a COO to now 2014 to '24, I would say that overall market shares have remained relatively stable. There's ebbs and flows in each segment is very specific TPOs different than EPDM. EPDM is different than PBC. But on the whole, I think one of the reasons it stays relatively stable for us is our great network of architect specifications, distributors and then this warranty and specifying these things and viewing the whole thing as a system, which is what Mehul talks a lot about with Henry as well.

This idea that we're having a specified system. So I don't think '24 will be any different. I think '24 will probably play out in a similar way and market share will be relatively consistent around the big buckets of our business. The three roofing membranes, the insulation, the accessories at ESI and seals of that.

I would or -- I guess without -- I don't want to share too much, and I would go back to maybe more of a public figure. And I think it's -- ABI, I think. Contractor -- so that's steady 8.6 that Kevin referenced is pretty similar to what we've seen for the last few years. 9.1, I think, was there for a while. I don't think it's really dipped below 8.5. So I think backlog has remained relatively consistent, which is kind of what we talked about with labor constraints that people aren't paying resume, but there's a healthy backlog of demand there.

Yes, it's relatively balanced across both CCM and CWT.

Thanks, operator. Well, that concludes our fourth quarter '23 conference call. I appreciate all the questions and the interest, and we look forward to talking to everyone soon. Thanks very much.

