Chris Doyle
Civitas Resource Inc. (CIVI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll kick it off and then kick it over to Hodge. In terms of the 2024 guide, as we mentioned, we expect to see production growth throughout the year. In terms of the split for the year, we're about 70-30 on TIL. 70% of the TILs will be from Midland, 30% from the Delaware. We like the production profile growing a little bit through the year, have started out the year very strong, coming off a really strong exit.

In terms of capital efficiencies and how we've constructed this program, we're early on. It's early days, certainly. I love seeing the team already delivering 20%, 30% reduction in drilling days. We're also accelerating TIL times. And I'm excited with this team that we've built will do. We've not reflected any additional significant efficiency gains in either side of the Permian. So, we think it's the right way to set up 2024, and we think there's room to enhance as we go through the year. Hodge, do you want to jump in on some of the specifics?

Sure. I'll kick this off and then kick it over to Marianella. I think the first thing I'd say is we've built this track record of an all of the above approach. We look at what we've delivered through last year and even as we started 2024, a good mix between dividends and buybacks. And that really comes down to the strength of the assets and the teams that are managing those assets. I think it's important to understand the company was formed with a very clear mandate and that was to return cash to our shareholders. We've done that. We've chosen to do that. We'll continue to do that with a mix of the variable -- the fix the variable and buybacks. Marianella, what would you add?

Sure. The fourth quarter facility upgrade that we saw was really about short-term pain for long-term gain and enhancing flow assurance in the Delaware. We've done similar facility upgrades and tweaks already this quarter with minimal downtime. And so, we think that's a one-off. I think importantly, as we think about Vencer and the integration efforts that have kicked off, much different than with Tap Rock and Hibernia. We have the platform in place. We have a leadership team in place along with all the supporting support staff that will drive a successful integration.

These are assets that the team is very familiar with the basin that they've worked for a long time. I think we've shown as we've exited the year and moved into this quarter, assets are better in our hands. And I'm excited to see what the team can deliver. I'm most excited to be able to accelerate the integration with Vencer and see what the assets can deliver. We don't see any similar sort of one-off facility upgrades like we experienced in October, November. But this is also a team that's going to look for every single way to optimize the business. Hodge, anything you would add?

In terms of cost structure, sorry, just getting to the second part of your question. We exited the year with all-in cash costs around 950 or so just over 950. That's right at the middle of our guide for 2024. There are likely some synergies that have not been baked into that number with Vencer volumes coming over, but we feel very confident in how we exited the year. And as we lay out a very low and competitive cost structure in '24.

Sure. I'll kick this off and then kick it over to Hodge. A similar push was occurred about a year ago. The governor came out very strongly in opposition of that measure. They tried to go through a ballot initiative, didn't get the signatures, didn't get the financial support. Here it comes again this quarter. We don't think it's going anywhere. We're actively engaged at all levels within Colorado. And Hodge any additional color on where that sits today?

I'll kick us off here. I appreciate the question. I think first thing I would say is look how Civitas has managed and developed the DJ. And those lessons don't necessarily stop at the border as we go south into the Permian. This is a team and a leadership team that is focused on returns. It is focused on continuous improvement and we are super competitive. Take that mindset into the Permian. We've built this -- built out the team, and they have -- they are very like-minded. What we were focused on in our '24 guide is we've got to deliver this. There are many companies that have tried to do what we are doing and not been able to deliver. And so we did take rightfully so a conservative view into 2024. We know that the Permian is a different animal. We've got the team to execute.

I think where you're guiding potential cost savings per foot, I think that's very achievable. We've got a team that doesn't want to be just part of the pack. They want to be at the head of the pack. And if that's the case, then a 10% reduction in cost per foot, getting drilling days down into single digits. That's all going to be part of it. We're just not going to come out with a plan that prebakes success because we know the pitfalls that could arise from that. So I think you're thinking about it correctly. We're excited to get another quarter under our belt and continue to build that track record, a track record that we've built in the DJ, we want to replicate in the Permian.

Sure. I'll kick this off and see if Hodge wants to add anything. Yes, ‘23 was different than '22. '22 was different than '21, '24 is different than '23. We are continually working on how do we enhance returns. Some of the big moves from '22 to '23 were around extended laterals. We had going into that risk the additional mile. And what we saw was the degradation in that third mile just didn't show up or didn't -- certainly didn't show up to the level that we had risk. That was a big driver. We are always tweaking completion design, development, spacing and how we flow back wells, how we bring wells on and the team has done a phenomenal job getting stronger every single quarter.

So we've rolled some of those enhancements and improvements into the '24 plan, but it is a stark performance improvement year-over-year. I'm super proud of what the team was able to deliver. This is some of the -- this is Great Rock. These returns will compete for capital within the Permian and that's why you're seeing us allocate so much capital into the Watkins. And you couple that with three caps that will cover the vast majority of it. This is an area that's primed to deliver for Civitas for a number of years to come.

So if you look at our full year guide of right at about 170,000 BOE per day, we anticipate a little bit of downtime, obviously, for weather in the first quarter. What we saw for Permian specifically, however, it was above our expectations for the quarter. We think as we go Q1 through to the end of the year, we'll see some increase, fairly modest and that's based on the assets outperforming coming off that strong exit into January and now February.

Sure. I'll kick this off here. Three primary drivers to the $150 million. The first is the early wins in terms of cycle times that we've seen across our business. That's making for a much more efficient capital program in 2024. The second is the enhanced well productivity that we saw in the DJ, that's making for a much more capital-efficient program in 2024. And the combination of those two has allowed us to tweak and to pull out a little bit of activity and yet deliver the same amount of production for less capital. The split between those three is probably fairly even, I'd say. I think there's likely more upside on the cycle time enhancements. We've not baked in anything into the Delaware or into the Vencer assets. Now let us get our hands squarely on the wheel with those assets, and we'll see how we progress through the year.

And I think the other thing that Hodge touched on is we'll look for ways to accelerate TILs, and it will cause a little bit of lumpiness. That's why you see us 60% of our capital in the first half of the year because we think we can bring wells on a lot faster, and that's going to be a better return for our shareholders. But it will create a little bit of lumpiness. I'd say of the $150 million, the split between the Permian and the DJ is likely heavier weighted to the DJ, just because it's a known commodity. And I'd like to be here next quarter or a couple of quarters from now saying, hey, we're uncovering additional ways to optimize the Permian. We just haven't rolled that into the '24 plan yet.

Sure. And the short answer is yes. Those are some of our best returns in the DJ. I think it's also setting up because of the permitting situation, the Box Elder CAP approved, the Lowry CAP set to get approved this year, the Arapa CAP maybe late this year, early next that you then have really strong confidence in being able to allocate capital in that area.

I would say that we're going to be -- as we allocate capital between the DJ and the Permian this stuff is going to compete. And I'd say we're 70% this year, probably 75% next year of our capital going into the Watkins area. So we're excited about it. It is a fantastic area, and we've got line of sight, clear line of sight on the permitting with the CAPs working through the system. And so yes, you'll see us really pull capital into this area over the next few years.
