Chris Caldwell
Concentrix Corporation (CNXC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Joe, it's Chris. I'll pass to Andre if he's got a follow-up comments. The way we look at 2024 evolving is similar to 2023. We don't expect there to be a sort of seasonal peak in Q4. We expect retail and e-commerce continuing to be somewhat muted, primarily driven by the macroeconomic conditions. Similar with consumer electronics, we're seeing that as relatively muted. And so we see it as being that consistency through the course of the year. We do see us being able to deploy more of our Generative AI solutions internally through the course of the year that will add to some better productivity gains. But as we've called out, kind of investing that into, frankly, winning the business, doing more transformation, and building out more tools because we do think that this year, we'll start to see a bit more of an inflection point near the end of the year for client solutions. That will mute a bit of growth, but that's more of the back half of the year is the way we are looking at it.

Yeah. Joe, it's pretty integrated even now as we speak and we talked about [indiscernible] deals. What I'll tell you is that the Webhelp business has brought us more kind of nearshore and offshore capabilities for our Europe business. And so clearly, our goal over the next year is to drive more business into higher profit nearshore and offshore regions than sort of Continental Europe for some of the business that we're doing. The Webhelp business also brings us more e-commerce clients that are -- and travel clients within the market, and that's a global comment, clients in Latin America and Europe in those categories. And frankly, that has been a fairly successful high-growth area for us and so that's like to be. And then lastly, in some of the newer capabilities that we're bringing on board, like the AML and KYC activity that we called out as some of the wins that we've got -- we expect to see some good wins from that. But the general like-for-like core business is very, very, very similar. It really brings us the additional footprint and in additional market clients that we were after.

Yeah. To be quite honest, Vince, they are quite conservative. We -- as we talked when we announced the deal, we did not count on revenue synergies, that was sort of additional extra. We were more focused on getting from cost synergy perspective as we looked at the numbers. What I would tell you is that normally, it takes six to eight months before we start to see real kind of material opportunities that come from bringing two businesses together. We were very happy and surprised that we got a few small deals done within the fourth quarter, but I wouldn't overread into that. I still think it's sort of that six to eight-month window before it becomes more material, and we haven't really looked at that within our guide for the year.

Yeah, there wasn’t a lot of overlap between the two firms, which is what really interested us. We haven't had any feedback from clients that we're over-indexed with any of them. In fact, a few that we thought we were going to be touching that threshold, actually we've done well with in terms of finding new opportunities. So that hasn't been a concern at all so far, and we don't see anything in the horizon.

Yeah, for sure. So we've got a lot of POCs in place with clients, well over 140, and it's sort of growing on a weekly, monthly basis. And what we're finding is that clients are very hesitant, not to say that this won't change, but very hesitant to have fully automated GenAI solutions, I'll call it in the while, dealing with customers with no human intervention or no human checks. And there's a lot of reasons for that, which we can go through, but that's still the overwhelming sentiment. And so where people are looking at it to drive the best benefit is where it's hoping whether their staff, our staff, the enterprise staff, be more productive and being able to deliver a differentiated personal service to the customers that they're engaging with. That's where we see some of the big push. And every time we talk about sort of some things that are fully automated, we tend to get the clients are saying, no, that's not where we're at right at the moment. That's well down the pipe. And so we're not only building the tools internally for ourselves, because we're seeing the benefits, but that's where we're also seeing clients focus their efforts is kind of making themselves better and more productive than sort of complete automation work.

Thanks, Vin.

Yeah, we do. I mean, we see a lot more tools that we can build internally to drive better productivity across our enterprise. And what we're seeing is that where we can either get information, large quantities of information, like healthcare, like banking, wealth management, even very complicated tech support, even complex case management with travel and transportation, where we can take huge quantities of information and boil it down and put it into a personalized format and deliver it to a customer, there's big, big productivity gains that we're seeing within that base. Then if you look at how we can actually take the interactions and then analyze the interactions and provide feedback back to our game changers that the name we call our staff is that the productivity and uniqueness that we can deliver to each individual is something that frankly we couldn't do in the past without scaling up significant number more of QA and labor and coaches and everything else that goes along with it. So we see some really, really, really big benefits from that perspective. And in terms of complete automation, we talked about, we have a few that we put in place that are complete automated GenAI experiences. They're on very, very small LLMs. They're very controlled LLMs. And what we're seeing is our revenue model is, we're providing the managed services, we're providing the data ingestion, we're providing the management of those LLMs and the clients are very cautious about putting them on small transactional queues and really, really, really can fold in lockdowns and there's no hallucinations. Nothing goes wrong. At the small cues, there's not as much productivity that you get, but it's definitely something that we're continuing to push.

Yeah for sure. So just to kind of set the stage a little bit. The Concentrix business was growing faster in Asia and Europe than it was in North America. And we felt that we were underperforming in Latin America. And one of the things that we were really excited about was that it gave us faster growth market in Europe with this Webhelp combination. We are combined with a very, very, very strong team within Latin America, and then our Asia team continues to perform very, very well as Andre called out. So from a faster growth geography perspective, think nearshore Europe, think Africa is kind of higher growth avenues for us and more profitable growth than what we were able to achieve since we just didn't have that footprint. From a Latin American combination perspective, very, very, very strong execution team in Latin America now with the combination of the two businesses coming together. And we see the growth not only in new opportunities taking from North America into the Latin American market but also in some domestic Latin American markets that we've historically done very well in and together we think we'll do even better in. Think Brazil, think Colombia, think Peru, think a few other markets, Mexico, that we now have the ability to do both that local engagement business as well as the global business from the nearshore market within North America. So I'm quite excited from that perspective.

Yeah, that's a good question. I'd answer by saying that, right now the market is quite competitive and what we're seeing is on top of every client's mind is reducing costs and to them that is total cost of ownership. Some of them say simply a pricing exercise. And we are seeing competitors in some commodity work and some kind of higher volume, easier to move work being very, very, very aggressive from a pricing perspective. What we're not seeing that is in some of the higher work that we're doing where there's more technology, more integrated services to be done. But overall, it's a very, very competitive market right now is what we're seeing.

Thank you.

So a couple things, Ruplu. Just in terms of timing of deals, the standard deals that we're doing, there's really been no change in timing. They tend to follow the same pattern that we've seen for the last number of quarters. Obviously, we're focusing on some of the big transformational deals that we talked about. We formed a new team around sort of big deals. We expect those to take a lot longer. Historically, they can take a fair bit longer, but they're stickier, longer term contracts, and frankly more profitable. And so certainly we're putting more effort into that. What we are seeing in the marketplace is that wins, as we've talked about for probably the last couple of quarters, tend to come in at the volume that we were expecting and stay closer to that volume versus growing. And that tends to be more driven by the macroeconomic conditions, right? People are moving to us because they're getting a change or differentiated level of service and their business is not as growing as fast as it was in a very robust economy. And so we're seeing those deals come in and probably growing a little slower than what you would have seen a year and a half to two years ago from that perspective. The only other kind of comment I'll make just in terms of new economy is we're seeing new economy win business, kind of fall in line with everything else, right, it's a little higher here and there. So some of the e-commerce that we talked about would fall into that category. Some of the travel would actually be in the new economy category. And so we're seeing that continue to grow a little faster. But FinTech and healthcare new economy companies and a few other companies like that, tend to be following a lot of the general macroeconomic conditions of their enterprise peers in the last quarter. That's probably a little different than what we saw a couple of quarters ago.

Yeah, for sure, Ruplu, it's a great question. I think there's two things that we look at. First, when we've now been at this sort of a year and a quarter, give or take with clients looking at POCs and actually getting them in. And frankly, we've been spending a lot of this in our own dime and kind of co-developing with clients, et cetera, et cetera. Haven’t meaningfully put anything into from a revenue perspective. And so it's been not a drag, but it's just been an investment that we've been making. And we start to see near the end of 2024, where there's enough momentum that we think these things will start to go into more production that where it's chargeable, then we’ll start to see more chargeable, then we'll start to see some benefits of that. And in the POCs, we are seeing where we're driving revenue. And we're starting to develop all these new levels of service for Generative AI, whether it be from different types of content tagging and content management, whether it be from how we implement the LLMs, whether it be from how we manage the LLMs, whether it be from kind of the annotation of the data, whether it be from the analytics and supporting the application layer that integrates into it and then running it, because you have to continue to tune these elements. We're starting to see all this new opportunities for revenue that's coming out that will offset some of the decline that you'll get from people being more productive with the technology being put in place. And so we now have enough kind of test cases and data that we can start to extrapolate and start to see, okay, we see how this works. Now, why we talk about the fact that visibility is a little light is that we still have clients who generally are looking at this and POCs are okay but there's still a lot of hesitation for adoption full scale where you're going to see sort of probably a bigger inflection point. We do think that'll come. I think it's a matter of time, but we'll start to see I think early signs within sort of the back half of 2024 to early 2025.

Andre, can you take that?

No, I agree. As we've talked about, it's really about domain expertise, it's about technology, and it's about furthering our differentiated value proposition. And so we're focused on kind of making sure that we keep to our investment grade principles and enhancing the business if we have the opportunities from an M&A perspective in those areas.

Sure, Ruplu. Thank you.