Chris Peterson
Newell Brands, Inc. (NWL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Filippo. Let me take that. I think as Mark alluded to in the prepared remarks, we are expecting a sequential improvement in top line performance in '24 versus '23. And if you look at the sales guidance, there's really three things that are in the sales guidance. We're expecting the market growth rate to be down low single-digits, which is an improvement versus 2023 where the market growth was down high single-digits. We're expecting about two points of headwind from proactive decisions we've made to exit unprofitable businesses, which we believe is a good business decision. And then we've got about two points of headwind from FX and category exits the majority of which is FX related.

I think if you go underneath that view, I would say that there's some very positive green shoots that we're expecting next year. So if you look at 2023, we grew market share on about eight of our top 25 brands. We're expecting that number to increase as we go into 2024 into the low teens, driven by the capability improvements that we put in place. If I just take innovation as an example, now that we've established a tiering system of Tier 1, Tier 2 initiatives, which are the largest initiative categories. In 2023, we had zero Tier 1 and 2 initiatives that were launched in the marketplace.

In 2024, we have 8. The first one we started shipping a few weeks ago is Sharpie creative markers, which we're very excited about. It's a new category entry for us, acrylic markers that really pop on light and dark surfaces. You can go to sharpie.com and see more about it. But this is the first of what will be a series of innovations that are starting to come to the market. Eight Tier 1 and 2 in 2024 is much better than zero last year, and we are still working on populating the pipeline and I expect the pipeline to get even stronger as we head into '25.

We also started to make real progress on the new business development capability that we put in the market focused on top line growth. Last year in '23. Part of the reason for the over delivery on the core sales line in Q4 is the new business development team actually secured incremental distribution with new customers already that helped the over delivery. And we've got a very strong pipeline as we head into '24 on that front.

We also, as part of the operating model redesign have simplified the interaction with the international teams, and we believe that as we head into next year, our international business is poised for a significant acceleration in top line growth based on the process simplification and the structure change that we've made. So, we are very excited and optimistic about the capability work that we've been progressing on. I think I mentioned previously, we had 18 breakthrough capability initiatives that we kicked off as part of the new strategy that was launched in June of last year. Those capability improvement actions are starting to bear fruit, and we believe are going to start to show up increasingly in the top line results going forward.

Thank you. Next question?

I'll just say a few words about the new facility that we put in place. But I think it's important to take a step back and understand that it's all predicated upon the work that we've been doing with respect to cash, generally speaking, right? This past year, we increased our cash flow by $1.2 billion year-over-year. We paid down $500 million worth of debt. We feel very good about the way we've been managing the company's balance sheet as we were looking to see what we needed in the way of financial flexibility for fiscal '24, we looked at our current facility and decided that we'd be better served by having a secured facility in place that, yes, did bring with it some additional covenants to replace the existing ones that were out there. If you want to get more specific on that, we can let Sofya follow-up with you individually on that.

But I think the bigger message here is that cash flow was strong, exceedingly strong in the year just ended. We have really great plans in place to continue to extract and drive out our cash conversion cycle so that our working capital continues to improve year-over-year. And by the end of the year, we'll have reduced our leverage ratio even further than where it currently sits.

Yes. So what I would say is that the eight breakthrough initiatives our Tier 1, Tier 2 initiatives that we're launching this year will build during the year. The other thing that's important to note about these eight, Tier 1 and 2 initiatives is they're not just a one-and-done thing. These are multi-year platforms that will begin to build and drive growth, not just this year, but for the next several years.

If you look at what we're guiding to in Q1, we're guiding to a 6% to 8% core sales decline, and we're expecting the year to be 3% to 6%. So I do think you're going to see Q1 be the weakest quarter during the year. And the balance of the year, we expect better core sales performance. I mentioned that one of the top or the Tier 1, 2 innovations, the Sharpie Creative Markers, we started shipping a few weeks ago. That will show up in stores in March, we'll turn on advertising, and we've got a full marketing campaign behind it that will start in March as well.

The balance of the innovation is really sequenced more in Q2, Q3. And so you'll see those start to build as we go through the year. Likewise, the new business development, where we've had some significant wins will build as we go throughout the year. And I think, so we're pretty excited about the rate of improvement that we're driving on the capability improvements on the innovation funnel. And I think you'll begin to see that show up in the top line as we move through the year.

Thank you.

Good morning, Bill.

Yes. Thanks, Bill. I think the thing, if you sort of parse out what we're saying on the guidance, we're planning the category growth rate or the market growth rate to be down low single digits. We've made proactive choices to exit about two points of business, and that effectively are the two drivers of the core sales growth guidance. If you back up from that, what that means is that from a market share standpoint, excluding, or excluding the choiceful exist, we're effectively guiding that our market share is going to be flat this year, excluding the choiceful exits that we're making. And that's because the capability improvement actions are coming online, and we expect that to begin to show up in tangible financial results. So we don't like to give guidance beyond a year.

But if you look at that trajectory that we're on, if you go into '25, the choiceful exits that we're making should be behind us by the time we get into '25. And so that is unlikely to be a headwind for '25. At the same time, it's hard to predict what's happening in the categories, but I think a lot of the outside experts would suggest that the category growth rate may turn more positive in '25, and we expect our capabilities to be even stronger heading into '25 versus where they are today.

And so I mentioned that in '23, we grew market share on eight of our top 25 brands. We think we've got line of sight to do that on about half of our market of our top 25 brands in '24, and I expect we're going to grow market share on more than half of our top brands in '25. And so we see a path for significant financial improvement. We see a path back to sustainable and profitable growth. We said when we unveiled the new strategy that this was going to be a multi-year journey because of the capabilities that needed to be built on the front end.

But I can tell you inside the company that the capabilities we're building on innovation, on brand building, on new business development, on go-to-market, on international, the changes that we're making in the operating model, the talent upgrade, the clarity of the strategy, all of those things are in place and starting to contribute. And we think we're on that trajectory. The thing that is a little bit more uncertain is what happens to the rate of market growth. We've tried to be prudent in our forecast in our guidance by saying it's going to be down low single digits is our assumption for this year. I will say it's early days, but just looking at the January results, we're running a little bit ahead of our plan in the month of January, but we're not going to get ahead of ourselves based on one month and January is a light month.

Yes. I think they're going to normalize a little bit in '24, but our view from an overall macro standpoint is that the consumer remains under pressure because of inflation. And you have to, although in the headlines, you see a lot of commentary about consumer spending holding up very well, which is true. A lot of that consumer spending is being directed to either Services spending or Essentials, which is food and essential categories. And most of the forward-looking people that we get data from would suggest that durable and discretionary categories although there, the market growth rate is projected to improve versus '23, it's still likely to remain under pressure in '24.

I will say that if you talk to those same external people, which we do a lot, most of them are predicting that, that's going to change when we get into '25 and even more so into '26 although it's hard to predict that far out. And so we're trying to be prudent. We're trying to take the things that are in our control. You mentioned the Baby category, which was particularly negatively impacted in '23 because of the Bed Bath & Beyond and buybuy BABY bankruptcy.

One of the things that we're doing with our new business development team is we are expanding and opening up new retail customers into that Baby channel with Graco as the lead brand. And so we're pretty excited about what you're going to see going forward. We can't say too much about it right now, but there are things that we are doing to try to get the category back to growth that I think are going to help market growth and help Newell's market share at the same time.

We also have an opportunity in that business to expand a little bit more internationally, because we're very U.S. centric, and there's a lot of babies outside the U.S., a lot more outside the U.S. than there are inside the U.S. And so we have a couple of exciting country launches planned in that business already for '24.

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks, Lauren. So we are having active discussions with retailers on this topic. As we said in our prepared remarks today, our input costs, we are expecting to go up in '24, not down. So we are not seeing broadly deflation in terms of our input costs. That being said, what we have baked into our guidance is a low single-digit inflation rate. That's really driven by three things, which is labor cost, a little bit of transportation inflation and a little bit of resin inflation. It's a more normalized inflationary input cost inflationary period.

And so as we've had discussions with retailers on this topic, I think they understand that our businesses are not ones that we're seeing deflation. And so we're not planning any significant price reductions or rollbacks as we go forward. And we're not seeing that really in the competitive environment of what we compete in either. I think there are other parts of general merchandise where that may be the case, but not in the categories in which we compete.

Yes. So the Outdoor & Rec business is our -- is the business that's the most in need of a turnaround of any of our segments. So when we did the capability assessment, it became very clear that because each of our businesses in the past were not managed consistently, and we're putting in those consistent processes now. They all started from different starting points. And so if you look at where the businesses are on the journey, Outdoor & Rec has the furthest to go with regard to improving its ability to innovate, brand build, brands communicate and drive retail excellence.

The additional thing I would say on that business is that, that was the business that had more of their business, particularly in the U.S., and opening price point categories that were structurally challenged. And so we have taken significant action in Outdoor & Rec. I'm very excited about the category in the long-term, because I believe that it is a category that we can drive significant growth. It's responsive to innovation and all of the capabilities we are building should be applicable in that business.

In order to drive that, we haven't just brought in a new leader of Outdoor & Recreation, but we've effectively brought in a completely new marketing team, a new sales leader, a new CFO, and we've announced we're moving the business from Chicago to Atlanta. And so we are making a significant intervention to upgrade that business. I do think if you look within the segments, and obviously, we don't provide guidance at the segment level. I would expect the Outdoor & Rec turnaround from core sales decline to core sales growth to take longer than what you're going to see in Learning & Development or in Home & Commercial. And so, but I do expect already some improvement in '24 relative to the growth rate versus '23 in Outdoor & Rec, but it will likely be a laggard relative to the other two segments because of the amount of capability improvement work that we have going on in that segment.

Yes. Thanks, Andrea. I think we're trying to be prudent in the guidance is the way I would describe it. It is a volatile time period. It's hard to predict exactly what's going to happen in the macroeconomic environment, and we certainly don't have a crystal ball that is unique or better than anybody else. I think probably the biggest assumption that we're making is that the markets are going to be down low-single digits, which is an improvement in '24 versus what we saw in '23 where it was high-single digits.

As I said, so far, in the month of January, we're running slightly ahead of plan, but it's too early to declare victory after one month. If you look at the business units, I feel very good about our Writing plan heading into this year. We have strong innovation. I mentioned the first of the eight Tier 1 and Tier 2 innovations, the Sharpie Creative Markers that are launching this year, which is a new category for Sharpie that we have high hopes for.

I also have high hopes for Baby this year. I think we have a bounce-back plan in place in that category. And I think that category has normalized significantly last year from the buybuy BABY bankruptcy. On the Home & Commercial business, we've done, which would include Kitchen, Home Fragrance and Commercial, we've done a lot of work to reset the margin structure in that business, particularly in Kitchen, and you can see that coming through in the gross margin and operating margin results in the back half of last year.

And I think that business, particularly the Kitchen business has some exciting innovation that's coming this year. The Commercial business is a more stable business that we are going sort of from strength to strength. We expect that business to be more flattish this year versus last year. And then I mentioned the Outdoor & Rec business is probably the business that is going to be the most challenged this year because of the time it's going to take us to fully get the capability build in place and have that show through in terms of financial results.

Yes. We, that is baked into our plan. So, and perhaps I should have spent a little more time on that. But the organization realignment that we announced in January, where we announced that we were changing the operating model to better enable brand management, U.S. selling, new business development, international, et cetera. Also R&D is part of that effort. So, as part of that realignment, we announced a net head count reduction of 7%. But if you look within that, we actually reduced head count by more than that, and invested back resources in areas where we needed to invest back from a capability standpoint. And one of those areas was R&D and is R&D.

And so within R&D, we are investing more resources in terms of headcount. We are focusing that head count on platform technologies that can span across Newell. And these are things like material technology that spans across multiple business units. We're not going to disclose all of them here because some of them are competitively sensitive. But we do have a plan to upgrade the contribution and the investment in R&D specifically, and that is part and parcel to improving the innovation pipeline, and it's baked into our guidance and our operating model change that we announced earlier this month, earlier this year.

Yes. Thanks, Brian. I think we're very excited about the progress made. We've moved at incredibly rapid pace to do the capability assessment to launch the strategy to cascade the strategy. We've changed the operating model. We've upgraded talent. All of those things have gone, frankly, incredibly well and incredibly quick. I think the piece that is still ahead of us that I wake up every morning thinking about is how do we operationalize this and build it into the culture of the company, because and that's the work that I referenced when I talked about the top priority heading into '24 of operationalizing the new strategy and the operating model, because I think we now have an outstanding executive committee, which is my set of direct reports, that is driving the change, driving urgency in implementing the strategy.

What we need to do now is embed that throughout the entire 25,000 people that are working at Newell so that we are all operating in a consistent direction and we make the culture change to a performance-oriented outcome-based organization structure. We're seeing good signs of that. I just want to see it more broadly across the company. And I think that's what we're trying to do as we head into this year.

Yes. We are seeing shelf space increases in a number of our businesses. And we, because the line reviews for 2024 have largely been completed, we have pretty good visibility to that. So as an example, and I keep coming back to the Sharpie Creative Marker example, but the retailer acceptance behind that initiative has been very strong. We expect to gain incremental shelf space as a result of that initiative. We're also working with a number of retailers on category reinvention that we believe can trigger not only market growth, but market share growth for Newell at the same time.

The new business development program, I mentioned is coming online, and we've got some good examples of gaining incremental distribution. One that comes to mind, for example, is we have a terrific product on Rubbermaid Brilliance, which is a food storage product. Well, the new business development team went and sold that product into the container store. So we're now listed at, the Container Store. We were not doing business with The Container Store previously as an example.

And I could go through 15 or 20 of those types of examples where we're starting to get on the field with a broader set of retailers and gaining shelf space, and we think that trend is going to accelerate as our new business development capability improves, as our category management capability improves, as our innovation pipeline improves and as our brand-building capabilities continue to accelerate. So that's the goal. And I think we'll talk more about those examples as we go forward here.

Yes. I think relative to the guidance question, the base periods remain a little bit choppy because of retailer inventory destocking timing, shipment timing, et cetera. And so what I would say relative to the guidance is that we expect core sales growth to be better after Q1 in the balance of the year than we expected in Q1, as we've said. I think it's premature for us to talk about guidance by quarter between Q2, Q3 and Q4 at this point. And it will be a little bit choppy, but we certainly expect Q1 to be the weakest quarter of the year from a core sales growth perspective, core sales to improve after Q1.

And I think we'll stop there, and we'll continue our normal guidance pace of updating on the quarterly guidance at the beginning of the quarter. But because our focus is really on driving, as Mark said, the sequential improvement in core sales growth from negative 12% in '23 to down 3% to 6%. And remember, within that 3% to 6%, there's two points of stuff we proactively chosen to exit. And so if you were to exclude that, which we haven't not done from core, we're really guiding sort of down one to four in the areas that we're focused on for '24. And I think that's what gets us excited about the trajectory as we move through the year and think about where we're going to be over the course of the year as we head into '25. So thanks, everybody for joining. And we'll follow-up with anybody as always, after the call.