Clay Williams
NOV Inc. (NOV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Yes, it's a good question, Arun. And I appreciate it. Obviously, we've been very focused on margins and leverage here for quite some time. Taking a lot of costs out since 2019, and more planned for -- as we get into 2024.

But we faced a lot of headwinds with respect to supply chain disruptions more so than, I think, anybody else in oilfield services along with inflation. And so a lot of kind of headwinds against our battle to push margins up.

Nevertheless, we've made good progress, made good progress again in 2023 when margins in the first quarter were a touch below 10% and finishing up, as you point out, at 12.5% EBITDA margins in Q4.

Looking forward to 2024, we expect that to continue. The normalization of supply chain is going to help a lot. Inflation appears to be calming down a bit, at least here in the United States, and I think that's going to help a lot. We've been adding accretive work to our backlogs.

We ended up with some large frame agreements and things that were signed in the depths of the pandemic that inflation took a much bigger toll on. And so we're quarter-by-quarter working through that stuff. And so I think that all points to improving margin performance as we kind of work our way through 2024.

The other part of my answer would be around some of the new products and technologies and things that we have going on. You're -- I know very familiar with what we're doing in renewables, for instance, with these new products and technologies. So there's a lot of -- and it's not terribly material overall, but it does add up a lot of sort of start-up costs around things that we're doing in carrying.

And, for instance, our Keystone Tower Systems business, very excited about that. It could be hugely transformational in the wind tower space. But there are quarter-by-quarter start-up costs that we carry with that.

So, nevertheless, it's not lost on us. We can do better on leverage and margins. Very focused on that. And it all starts with the top line, and now we're focused on translating that really strong top line growth that we have been putting up into better profitability for our shareholders.

Yes, again, with stronger -- our stronger outlook for cash flow in 2024 and a much higher conversion rate of EBITDA to free cash flow, I think, we're going to have more options available to do both return capital to shareholders as well as act on some interesting opportunities we see developing out there.

We continually review our portfolio. We continually remain engaged in looking at acquisition opportunities. But we've actually been pretty quiet on that front. I don't think we closed anything in 2023, despite looking at almost three dozen different opportunities.

Only one of those -- or actually two of those translated into acquisitions here, Extract being one, and we expect to close another here in a couple of days. And what we see there are businesses that fit very, very well with us strategically that we can get a good value that are immediately accretive to EBITDA and cash flow and earnings for our shareholders.

And then on the other hand, we also have businesses that have been in our portfolio, they are terrific businesses, but frankly, might be worth more to someone else than what they're capitalized at given NOV's multiple, if that makes sense.

And so we're looking at the value of the individual components in our portfolio, and we've got one process underway that we're pretty excited about. And we think net-net, buying low and selling high is good for our shareholders.
You bet. Thanks, Arun.

Hi, Jim.

Yes. You said 15, I think, more accurately we said mid-teens. But incrementally, since that call, as we were, I think, pretty clear in our comments this morning, we're incrementally just a little more cautious on North America now calling for expenditure -- E&P CapEx to be down in 2024 versus 2023. And so that's certainly shading our view.
Again, I'll stress, I hope we're wrong. I hope natural gas fuels some additional drilling here later in the year. But that's certainly influencing our exit margins at this point. But the thing is, Jim, we got a long way to go before we get to the end of the year. And we're going to continue to work to maximize margins, whatever the market gives us. And so that's really our focus.

Yes, it's a great question, Jim, and I'm very excited about it. I'm going to steer clear of quantifying just yet. These are all new products we've been introducing, some just this past quarter. But the approach that we've had for the past few years here has been to develop our Max Edge platform as a corporate resource and enable our business units to develop products off of that.

So, we're not reinventing that wheel. And what we have come up with is a very robust platform that facilitates the Internet of Things and edge computing, obviously, a lot of interest in that across the producer space. And a lot of application of that platform to products that we offer through several different business units at NOV, and there's a lot more to come.

And so within the drilling world, pleased to be celebrated by one of the major Middle Eastern national oil companies, as I mentioned, for streaming data from 100 rigs at a much higher rate than their previous service provider.

In the completion space, our Max Completion is gaining a lot of interest amongst pressure pumpers and their customers in enabling more optimization of frac jobs. We're also continuing to improve that product. And so 3,500 -- more than 3,500 users now, and it's growing pretty dramatically. And then there are several other areas where we're using that in conjunction with artificial intelligence to drive better results.

So, our KAIZEN drilling optimization program, our new drilling beliefs and analytics, which has been, as -- I think I mentioned in my prepared remarks was adopted by a couple of large independents shortly after our introduction just a couple of months ago. And so really pleased with how all of this is going.

Thanks Jim.

Good morning.

We prefer not to disclose anything more, other than we think this is prudent. We think this is prudent stewardship of our capital and see an opportunity to reposition, adding a product line and then capitalizing on the fact that others value another product line more highly than us. And so I'm kind of just going to leave it at that.

Thanks Ati.

Another piece of that, too, is the closure of facilities. So, we just closed a couple of facilities in South America and Europe as well. And so those savings will be flowing in a little -- midyear or so.

No, I think we're on track for that.

Yes, it's a good question. Let me caveat my answer by saying I don't -- certainly don't want to speak on behalf of our good customer, Aramco, and I think we'll be seeing more about this in coming weeks.
With that caveat, what we think -- and I'll be there a week after next in the Kingdom. What we think they are referring to is really around probably the FID of Safinaya, which is a very large offshore field development that they have not yet FID'd. It's north of $20 billion. And so it doesn't really impact 2024.
With respect to 2025 and 2026, I think even without Safinaya, the Kingdom would continue to grow revenues because they continue to press ahead with development drilling to offset declines of conventional oil wells to add production to existing offshore fields that they've already FID'd to add gas production, which is a critical strategic priority for the Kingdom to support domestic gas production and move forward with their unconventional Jafurah development.

And so that all adds up to be, I think, a region that is going to continue to grow for the next few years, probably several years in the absence of one or two large offshore fields that get postponed a bit. So, we're still very bullish on the outlook for the Kingdom.

And in fact, just yesterday, won an award for a nonmetallic liner -- lined steel tubing business for our Tuboscope plant there in the Kingdom. And really across our portfolio, foresee continued activity supporting all that other work that's going on there.

With respect to the jack-ups, just to level set for everybody, they've dramatically grown their jack-up drilling fleet going from about 50 rigs on up to I think about 78 or 80 or so are turning to the right, and then there's another dozen or so that are under contract to come online.
So, you add all that up, it's about 91 jack-ups, up from about 50 not long ago. So, a big, big step-up in drilling activity. Those are new contracts. Good rigs. We're working efficiently. I don't know precisely what their announcement -- how it might impact that.

But at this point, we're all kind of speculating. But nevertheless, we continue to support all those rigs and continue to remain active on some that are contracted that we're reactivating to put into that market.
Thanks Doug.

Hi, Kurt.

No doubt.

Yes, good question, Kurt, and I appreciate it. I think the outlook here is really good. It's early days, I'll stress, a lot of these are new products being introduced, but the attention they're getting is good. In fairness, it's a crowded space. There's a lot of people aiming at stuff like this. And it's sort of sometimes challenging to sort of rise above the competitive field.

I think in the products that we've introduced, though, we've got really good traction because we are demonstrating value. A number of these, we've developed with customer engineers, oil and gas company engineers that have been seconded to us for a period of time to sit by our developer and say, hey, add this, subtract this. This is really what I want. So it's a lot of a lot of dialogue with our customers around what do you really want and need and how can we add value? And I think that's helped us land on products that really do add a lot of value.

The other thing to think about here is the fact that a lot of these digital products, like, for instance, our NOVOS operating system, which is now operating on something like 125 rigs globally, both land and offshore, it really provides kind of a digital foundation for follow-on sales.
And rig is a good example. Both land and offshore, our NOVOS operating system facilitates our new ATOM RTX rig automation package that we're now -- is working on a rig in South America offshore.

We will -- we've got a customer that will be spudding this quarter onshore. We've got another one that's using it at their training facility. And it really, I think, is going to be very transformative, a lot of interest in this technology.

Not just by drilling contractors, by the operators who have seen it who say, wow, this is something that's dramatically better. And so this digital family of products that we're introducing aren't being launched in isolation.

They really sort of tie in to our more traditional product lines. And I think they facilitate future sales in those areas. And so there's a lot of pull-through that comes with them as well. But on the whole, I'd say, very proud of what our team has been able to accomplish very robust computing capabilities on the edge.

And by the way, edge in the oilfield is a lot tougher than a lot of other edges around the industrial space because rigs work in really remote areas and spotty communications are kind of the norm. They always have been throughout my career. And so we've done a lot to address that and bring the power of big data analytics, artificial intelligence algorithms to oilfield operations. And so I think a lot more to come.

Well, there's two new build programs. One is the land rig program, which is -- should be unaffected by that. They work in the offshore. And we're continuing to execute those rigs very well and understand they're operating really well. And the other is offshore. And a few years ago, they announced their plans to build a total of 20 jack-ups for the Kingdom. Since then, they've been constructing a shipyard in Ras Al-Khair, next door to our facility.

And I think the contracting there has been somewhat gated by the progress on that shipyard to execute future work there. But for right now, I'd say -- the short answer to your question, I don't know. We're still optimistic they're going to move forward with their plans, but I'm going to, again, let Aramco speak for Aramco.

You bet. Thank you.

Hi Stephen.

Great. Thanks Stephen.

Thank you, Michelle, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We look forward to reviewing our first quarter results in April. And I hope everyone has a nice day. Thank you. Bye-bye.


