Craig Billings
Wynn Resorts, Limited (WYNN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Carlo, I'll start and then I'll hand it to Julie. I mean, I think, we should put it in perspective, right. Our OpEx in the quarter was, I think, about 14% below Q4 2019, and our margins were some, I think, 140 basis points higher. So we're clearly being disciplined on OpEx. But Julie, do you want to discuss some specifics?

Barring, Carlo, barring a major facility opening like the event center, which is a number of years away. I don't foresee a step change in our OpEx, and we're managing it very, very tightly.

Yeah, it really hasn't. So I feel great about our business. I feel great about where we are. Like I said, February is shaping up to be jampacked between the Super Bowl, Chinese New Year and everything else we have going on, I don't really see any impact.

Thanks, Joe. I think you have to differentiate between each of the properties. So the early portion of the recovery was clearly premium mass land. You saw that in the different -- the revenue per head or revenue per visitor in the early portion of the recovery. And clearly, we saw that hit Palace first. And so we've been talking for the past several quarters about how Wynn Macau would need a little bit longer to recover. And so at Wynn Palace, now it's really about yielding the rooms and driving the best heads and beds, if you will, in order to continue to grow our position there. And the property is well positioned to do that. At Wynn Macau, where we have historically been more reliant on more transient traffic on what other operators may refer to as core mass. You saw that start to come through in this quarter. There's still more work to do there. But honestly, if you really look at the numbers that Wynn Macau produced this quarter, I'm incredibly proud of that team. You can see the uptick in drop. You can see the uptick in GGR and it was incredibly strong. That's really down to the targeted CapEx that we did that we completed just at the end of the third quarter, bridging into the beginning of the fourth quarter and then also the return of those additional segments that you referred to in your question.

Yeah. Brian, do you want to give a little bit more color?

We don't disclose that, but you can assume that rates are contracted on a multiyear basis and bear some relationship to CPI.

Well, I think you're going to see it across the portfolio, but you're going to see it disproportionately at Wynn Macau just based on the geographic location of the property. You tend to have that more transient customer in downtown and we're going to be a beneficiary of that there. But it affects Palace as well. I mean there's a lot of reasons to visit Palace and to make Palace a destination for a base mass customer. You should see the queue just to get on the gondola out in front of the lake every day. And now as we add incremental amenities like we did with Illuminarium, there's a lot of reasons to visit our property more so than they probably ever have been. So I would say it affects both properties to some extent, but I would expect it to disproportionately affect the property downtown.

Sure. On the first portion of your question, the event calendar looks pretty good because we spend a whole bunch of time creating our own events. So it's not just the city wides. We've been programming the heck out of this joint for several years now, and we've built a lot of momentum on doing that. And that not only helps us from a brand and marketing perspective, but clearly from a room night and a pricing on rooms perspective. So I feel great about the remainder of 2024 from an events perspective. With respect to the sphere, it's been, I'd tell you, it's been pretty amazing. I mean it probably doesn't affect our rate, but we sure do get a whole bunch of requests to reside on that side of the building in order to see the sphere itself. And certainly, on the U2 weekends, we see an uptick in terms of very high-quality occupancy. So you're talking about kind of the best of the best customers that want to stay with us because we're actually the closest property to the sphere as the crow flies. So it's definitely been additive to us on the margin. And I got to tell you, I admire and respect what they've done by doing that. I think it's incredibly novel. It's incredibly unique, and it's yet another kind of only in Vegas experience that you can have and we're delighted that they're next door.

Sure. I mean, look, there's a lot -- we have a lot of different avenues for growth. We've got a huge land bank here in Vegas, right? We've got the land across the street. We've got the golf course. There's a lot that we can do here. We're in pursuit as I think everyone knows, in New York, we have a project that's actually coming out of the ground in the UAE, and that's going to be a very substantial opportunity for us. There's some additional states that are moving, albeit at a relatively slow pace that might prove to be opportunities for us. We obviously don't do every possible -- every potential jurisdiction. We're very selective. And then there are certain international jurisdictions like Thailand, for example, that are also in the process of considering gaming. So we're always balancing really two things. Our ability to do what we do so well, remember, we're one of the last in the industry that maintains its own design and development group. And so it's not as though you can bang for these out in any particular year. So that's always a consideration. And then the other is capital, as you rightly pointed out. So we're always looking at what is the highest and best use of capital that we can deploy, and then we're making decisions accordingly. We will certainly make use of that land across the street in Las Vegas. It's not a question of if, it's a question of when, and we'll see how things play out in New York and things play out in a couple of other jurisdictions in determining the timing of the use of that land.

Yes. It really depends, you're right. There's a lot of moving parts there, right? We have a debt maturity later this year there. We need to think about our leverage profile in Macau. And what that longer-term leverage profile should be. We have some capital that we need to put in the ground there. We had nearly three years of closure and cash burn. So the question is, what do we want the balance sheet to be? How will the CapEx plans come together in terms of the timing of capital deployment, which we're studying and learning more about as we go through the design and development process every day. And then, of course, the dividend. And as you know, the dividend just as a global statement, dividends are the cornerstone of our capital return strategy. So stay tuned. We are looking very closely at it, and we'll figure it out in due course.

Thank you.

Sure, Robin. Yes, January, well, keep in mind, last year, Chinese New Year started in January. And so this year, it starts in February. So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, February really sets the tone for the quarter, and it's where all the action is this year in Q1. March has a couple of headwinds. Easter timing is one of them and then the absence of CON/AGG is another. But our forward booking indicators continue to look strong, and we feel good about it. I've said probably five times on the last three or four calls that trees don't grow to the sky, and I would continue to tell you how things are looking in Vegas, and they continue to look good. They continue to look good for us. So how the quarter plays out will be very dependent on February. And again all forward indicators look strong for February. But subsequent to that, we'll take it from there.

Sure.

Sure. Specifically as it relates to Wynn Palace. Wynn Palace is incredibly well positioned and has been since the day it opens Encore time. But it only grows more so as we continue to evolve the amenities in Wynn Palace. Competition for premium mass customers has been fierce for ever end of day. So it's really nothing new. What we try to do is really focus on what we do well, stay true to who we are and be really, really disciplined, including on reinvestment because at the end of the day, I don't think the bank takes market share. I think they take cash. And so we're really focused on generating cash and EBITDA. So I think Palace turned in a great quarter, its future is bright, and we will continue to aggressively chase market share responsibly.

Yes, it's a really good question. The Super Bowl is distinctly more corporate in terms of visitation. And so I think that's an important point to keep in mind. So we have -- I alluded to it actually explicitly stated in my prepared remarks, we have very strong front money and credit for Super Bowl about double what we had last year. And that will be a very important segment of our business over the course of the next week and I expect it will generate very strong results. We also have a lot of folks in house who will never go near a gaming table because there's a lot of corporate visitation around this particular event. So the real answer to your question is, we don't know. We're going to see. But if we had to spitball it now, what I would say is that it's not going to be as impactful in the casino, and it will be equally, if not more impactful when it comes to hotel revenue. Fair assessment, Brian?

Yeah. Great question. I guess I'll answer that as a Las Vegan and someone who cares about the broader market and wanting to see everybody in the market participate and do really well. There's clearly, I mean, look, the first time you do anything of this scale, you're going to have learnings. And it's just natural. And so I do think that there's a lot that can be done to make the event more relevant for the town more broadly. And I think that F1 understands that. And I think, frankly, the operators in town understand that. Even those like us who disproportionately benefited. So I think the event is only going to get better and better. I think what this year approved is that the core contingent of people that travel to go to an F1 race is our customer. And so you better believe that we will program the heck out of this place yet again, just like we did this F1, this last F1 this coming year, and we will do our best to attract the best customers in the market. And hopefully, again, there will be more opportunities for some of the other tiers of properties in the market to participate in the event this year as they continue to evolve and change the event.

Yes, I'll leave the detailed China macro analysis to people who do that for a living. But there's certainly a lot of crosscurrents to consider. You have tremendous pent-up demand still from several years of mirror closure. You have the ease of proximity to Macau, which actually benefits Macau when the economic situation perhaps isn't as robust as it could be. And you have some modest stimulus efforts that we've seen. But you also, as you rightly pointed out, clearly, have a litany of difficult economic indicators. Yet Macau continues to tread along. So to us, it's really the long-term viability of Macau. We're thinking in kind of 5, 10-year increments. So it's really the long-term viability of Macau that's most relevant. And we're clearly already at levels that allow us the financial and operating flexibility to plan for that longer-term time horizon. So I think it's well observed, maybe not well understood, but well observed that Macau's trajectory does seem to be decoupled from the broader China macro. I think you saw that in 2009 as well. And I think that bodes well for the future. Does it bode well for next quarter? I don't know. Does it bode well for the quarter after that? I don't know. But it certainly bodes well for the future, and that's what we're thinking about.

Thank you.

Sure. I guess what I would say is if you look at the trajectory over the course of 2023, retail sales have been and were incredibly strong in Macau up over 2019. You saw -- you can see -- you can look at our numbers, Q3 to Q4, you can see that they were up very, very modestly, I think, about 10 basis points. And so certainly, if anything from China macro is affecting Macau is probably there. But again, given the relative strength compared to pre-COVID, I think it's difficult for us to complain. I think what appears to us to be occurring is, to a certain extent, Macau has become a substitute for Hong Kong from a retail sales perspective. And certainly, based on the changing type of visitation that you see, particularly on Cotai, I think you can support that premise. And so I think it's -- again, if you look at the long term, I think it's very bright for Macau from that perspective. And I think to the extent that someone goes to Macau with a retail-based motivation and the gaming-based motivation or eventually a retail-based motivation and entertainment-based motivation. That's fine. That's great. I mean that's a natural evolution of Macau. But you can see the quarter-over-quarter changes in our numbers.

Thank you.