Craig Smiddy
Old Republic International Corporation (ORI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Greg. I'd be happy to add more color with regard to commercial auto. So, I'll reiterate first by saying what I said a few moments ago and that is when we see something unfavorable, we react quickly. When we see something favorable, we react slowly.

And what we saw in the current accident year was severity that pushed up. I reported on the last quarterly call that we were seeing severity around 10% that moved up into the lower double-digits, more toward the 12% range. And we took a look at where we were at in the current accident year and decided to raise our accident year loss ratio commensurate with what we were seeing in that severity uptick.

I think the issue it gets masked just looking at that fourth quarter result is as we said in the release, we're putting four quarters of increased loss ratio pick into the fourth quarter. That's certainly, that loss ratio is certainly not what we expect going forward. And just to put things in context here, if you look at where we ended the year, we ended the year at a current accident year loss ratio of 76.2%. Last year in 2022, our accident year loss ratio pick was 76.4%.

So, this is very stable and by no stretch are things developing in a way that we think we're overreacting to, and again, just looking at those current accident year picks very stable. So, just to round out the picture to our reported numbers, in 2023, we reported a 71.5% loss ratio that included 4.7 points of favorable development and then the 76.2% accident your loss ratio that I spoke to.

So juxtaposing that against 2022, we reported a 66. 6% loss ratio for that year, but that included 9.8 point of favorable development. And as we indicated on our calls, when we saw very robustly favorable development numbers in certain quarters, we made it very clear that those were not sustainable kind of favorable development numbers, but the 4.7 in ‘23 is still a very robust prior year development result. So back to 2022, you have the 66.6 reported loss ratio development favorable development of 9.8 for that year and the initial loss pick of 76.4. Rounding it back out where I started, that loss in 2022 of 76.4 compares to where we ended ‘23 at 76.2%. So, as I say, put it in context, things are very stable.

Yes. Consistent, with our past practice, as you say, Greg, our approach is to lock down the accident years, raise those lost fixed if we see anything coming through that looks unfavorable. And the only time as you and I discussed some prior calls that where we feel forced to release some reserve is when we exceed the higher end of the range and because our reserves are still redundant in those prior years that, we would be deemed excessive. That's the only case, where we would consider looking at those lockdown years.

But relatively speaking, the practice is absolutely the same as it has always been very conservative approach and we hold as much as we possibly can on prior year in the way of those loss ratio picks.

Thanks, Greg for the question. Right. So the current year result is of course inclusive of prior year favorable developments. And as I mentioned just a few moments ago, as I mentioned in prior quarters, we've had very robust favorable prior year development. So coming in at that level as we go forward, we ended ‘23 at 5.7 points of favorable development. That's more than we should expect going forward consistent with comments previously made. We want to err on the side of at least a couple points of favorable development each year. We'd rather err on the side of favorable development, of course, as opposed to unfavorable.

So consistent with your question and those comments, you could expect that favorable development has been coming in the last few years, again in a very robust way that is not sustainable. However, on the current accident year loss ratio, we're not where we want to be yet. We still have areas in our business where that current accident year loss ratio is higher than we want it to be.

So, as we continue to make improvements and here too we take a very conservative approach where even though we see the improvements being made, they're coming through in the short term. We are very reluctant to lower accident year loss picks until we have a high degree of confidence that they'll hold. And so we've gone very slowly. Maybe we think I'll give an example, maybe we think that we've improved the loss ratio by 5 points, but our pick maybe we will only pick 1 point Improvement in the PIC, and gradually get to where we think we are.

So the point being that we would expect over time the accident year loss ratio to trend lower, but we would also expect going back to where I started that this high level of favorable prior year loss development, it won't be sustained.

What would be an Old Republic International conference call without the Chicago Fire Department?

Thank you, Greg.

Sure. I'd be happy to start with the easy part, which is, yes. The $25 million is the last dividend. The other part of the question is there are several factors here. You look at what mortgage insurance companies are valued at right now and they're valued at approximately book value.

And then you compare that to a runoff mortgage company without any new business coming in and the valuation, which we did a very robust market evaluation of with our investment banker and a very robust bidding process, I believe there were about actually 30 different parties that we reached out to.

The valuation was actually very good in our opinion and in many other outsider's opinion as to where we ultimately sold the business. The thing you have to look at is the diminishing level of premium that is occurring in that book of business, as it is run off and the diminishing level of reserves Commensurate with that premium and then ultimately how much going forward we would be able to generate additional revenue that would allow us to produce a profit and release much more capital at some point, things like fixed expenses hit a point where you just can't cut anymore and premiums are coming down.

So you hit a point where you actually will create an earnings drag and that makes it very difficult to produce revenue and the ability to release capital diminishes over time. So we really hit an inflection point where it made perfect sense to enter into the sales, even though it was at a loss to book value.

We think over time, again, we would have seen an earnings drag and not been able to release the levels of capital that we had extracted. We had extracted a large amount of capital, since the business went into runoff and again, we were hitting an inflection point.

The book value you're saying that at year end? It's about $170 million at year end. Okay. So 80% of that component was 80% price for the sale and then we have transaction costs. The net affect loss should be about $30 million.

Well, as best we can. We keep a very close eye on it and I would refer to our track record, vis-a-vis our competitors, it's the industry. I think we're one of the very few that has prior year favorable development on commercial auto because we got in early, recognize and I'm going back four or five years, recognize the severity trend, achieve the rate increases above or at those severity trends which is why we were able to produce such levels of favorable development in those prior years.

So I think our track record speaks for itself that you just look at the level of favorable reserve development from those prior years as a result of us keeping up with trends and the action we took on accident year ’23 in the Q4 was because it's doing exactly what we say we do it, but we see something we

[Technical Difficulty]

Okay. Great. Thank you. Connection and we apologize to everyone for that. So I'll just pick up with that last question about severity on the commercial auto.

Again, we think our track record speaks for itself. We, unlike most of our competitors, have had favorable prior year reserve development on commercial auto. And, why that is the case is because four, five years ago, when severity started to come through, we reacted with rates and risk selection and, produced those strong accident year results that led to favorable development.

So we're very quick to react. When we when we see severity coming through, and the rate increases that we've had over the last many years, has demonstrated in the numbers that, we do a very good job of noticing severity and reacting to severity, particularly with making sure that our rate changes are commensurate with that severity or even in excess of that severity that we're observing.

So, I'll leave it at that. Are there any other questions?

Okay. Well, thank you everyone very much. Again, we apologize for that technical glitch, but we appreciate your patience, we appreciate your support. And, we had a strong 2023, and we are very optimistic as we head into '24, that 2024 will be a very strong year as well. Thank you all very much.