Curt Farmer
Comerica Incorporated (CMA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Peter.

Thanks, Peter.

Good morning, Manan.

Manan, I might -- this is Curt, I might start and then ask Jim or Peter to add in. But on the deposit front, maybe just to keep the perspective here, is that we consider deposits as part of full relationships with clients. And we have clients for whom we have lending relationships and clients for whom we have deposit relationships and clients for whom we have both. But in the case of growing deposits, we're going to grow deposits sort of in-line of taking care of our customers. And having lived through what the whole industry lived through last spring, I don't believe this is an environment where we're going to look any deposits -- turn any deposits away for lack of a better definition. We do believe that, that loan-to-deposit ratio will go up some, but we should be able to comfortably stay within our target we believe kind of in the mid-80%s, even with the point to point growth that we're expecting in 2024.

Good morning, John.

John, as Jim said in his prepared remarks, that $45 million becomes $55 million on a run rate basis in 2025. And this is an interesting period of time. The whole industry has gone through an inflection in 2023 and somewhat of a recalibration, to use your words. We've tried to be thoughtful in terms of balancing the things that we believe are driving revenue for us and will drive revenue for us going forward. That includes some of the products that we've invested in, especially, in treasury management, payments, capital markets, wealth management. It also includes the focus on small business, expansion into new markets, into the southeast, and into the mountain west Colorado region. And so, we want to stay focused on those because we're trying to really play the long game here and try to get beyond sort of the immediate environment that we're operating in.

And then, secondly, I would say, while we did have some expense initiatives in the quarter, we're always thinking about additional efficiency opportunities. And again, it's all about sort of balancing between those two. And so, my hope is that we would see positive operating leverage, really based on overall revenue growth and a return to a more normalized interest rate environment, and hopefully a soft landing on the economy and a lack of further credit deterioration, et cetera. If we don't see that, then obviously, we'd need to think about what else we can do from an efficiency standpoint.

Good morning, Jon.

Thanks, Jon.

Good morning, Steve.

Steve, this is Curt. I just would add that we -- as I said earlier, we are focused on top-line revenue growth. We believe we have opportunities on both the fee income side and with the loan portfolio. But certainly, if we do not see growth materializing, if the economy does not move in the right direction, if interest rates don't move in the right direction, allowing us to get some relief on deposit betas, et cetera, then we'll continue to look at expense opportunities. I might also add that part of this from a risk framework standpoint is continued investment in preparation for potentially being over $100 billion, or if Basel III requirements step down to banks sub a $100 billion kind of in our category at $86 billion.

Thanks, Steve.

Good morning, Chris.

Yeah, I wouldn't maybe give a forecast exactly around returns or even multiples on the company, but I would say that we believe that based on the comments we made earlier, certainly, '23 was a disruptive year and a reset for the industry, and '24, I think, is some recalibration. I believe that interest rates are going to come down. And when they do, I think it will have a positive impact on NII for us. And we believe, as we said earlier, that in the latter half or second half of the year, that we will start seeing NII return. We think we've got great opportunities on the fee income side, and we showed that in 2023. And we think we've got good growth opportunities in terms of the loan portfolio.

And so, our goal is to get to positive operating leverage and believe that we can return at a level that's commensurate with the industry overall or better from a longer-term perspective. But '24 will be somewhat of a continued inflection year.

Good morning, Brody.

Let me again thank everyone for joining us today. As always, thank you for your interest in our company, in Comerica. And I hope you have a nice day.
