Dale Francescon
Century Communities, Inc. (CCS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good afternoon.

Yeah, Carl, we definitely have seen more M&A offerings and we expect that's going to continue. Part of it is, when you look at the private builders, the capital constraints are starting to become impactful to them, as well as you just look at it in many cases, the people who founded the business are starting to age a bit and they'd like to be able to liquidate their holdings.

For example, in the situation that we found ourselves in Nashville where we found a great company that has been in business for 30 years and they've now become our land development source as we go forward. We have an ongoing relationship with them, it is one of their expertise and they wanted to exit the homebuilding business but stay and keep their hand in land and land development, and so we have an ongoing relationship with them there. And so, from our standpoint, we find that to be a very valuable thing that we can create those ongoing relationships.

In terms of markets, we really look at M&A at this point as really opportunistic abilities to enhance our organic portfolio of land. In terms of voids in our market, the only ones that we really have is like a higher presence within Florida. We're there throughout Florida in our Century Complete brand, but on our Communities brand, we're only in Jacksonville. Florida, our experience has been very positive. And we'd like to expand our presence there, and M&A would be one way to do that.

You're welcome. Thank you.

Thanks, Jay.

Our Century Complete business has -- for quite some time, it was roughly a third of our overall volume. We moved it up to 35%, 36%. We're now just under 40%. It's the type of thing that because we only buy finished lots and we're typically buying them just in time, some of our constraints on growing that business is impacted by some of our land development partners and the timing in which they're able to complete and deliver lots to us.

But as we as we look at it right now, we're just under 40% of our overall business in terms of units on Century Complete. As we've said, ideally, we'd like to see it get to 50%. But as the community side continues to grow, that becomes harder to make Century Complete 50%. But we're very happy with it at the point that it currently is.

In terms of gross margin, because we're only buying finished lots, so we really have no land profit built into the margins. The margins tend to be structurally a bit lower. On the flip side, because we are not carrying any land and developing land, the returns are significantly higher.

Jay, it's -- I can't give you a specific number, but it really comes down to we're adjusting prices and reviewing them on a weekly basis on a subdivision by subdivision level. I can give you just kind of a general feel that certainly once we saw some interest rate relief, we started raising prices, reducing our incentives, because most of -- look at it, most of our homes have some type of incentive in it. Most of the increased price is really reflected in reduced incentives. Although there are increased base prices from a case to case basis, but it's really more incentives, and so -- which is all based on what we see in terms of competition for that particular subdivision level of inventory we have, that type of thing. But in general, on a directional basis, we are seeing that our incentives are going down and that's really where our focus is.

Thanks, Jay.

To everyone on the call, thank you for your time today and your interest in Century Communities. To our team members, thank you for your incredible efforts, dedication to Century, and commitment to our valued homebuyers. To our investors, we appreciate your continued support and look forward to speaking with you again next quarter and sharing with you our continued progress.
