Dale Asplund
BrightView Holdings, Inc. (BV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Thank you very much, Bob.

Yeah, yeah, great question, Bob. First, I think you're right, 45 days, I've had a chance to, as I said, visit many of our associates, some of our customers in different parts of the country. And what I've seen to start with is we have a very talented group of people that service our customers every day. We have a development group. We have a tree care business. We have a turf business, we have an irrigation business. We have a golf course maintenance business, and of course, our primary business, the Maintenance group. All these groups service customers at extremely high levels. Our biggest opportunity, like I said in my statement, is going to be to get everybody operating as One BrightView, getting all these people to leverage their skills together to service our customers. And when we do that, Bob, we will accelerate our organic growth internally because we have talented people with the right focus of customers. We just haven't leveraged the ability for them to really act as one team when they go to market to the customer. So that upside is there within our own control of working as One BrightView, one group to drive profitable growth. So I would tell you, I am more optimistic than ever by talking to the people in the field because the closer I get to the customer, the more our team is engaged to service the customer. So that's a great way to start when you're going to focus on how can we grow the business. And that starts and ends with those people that touch our customer every day. And we, as a leadership team, have to find a way to provide them all the tools they need to be able to do it efficiently and make our customers feel the choice they made to choose BrightView is the obvious choice.

Yeah. I would just say, in our business, we have obviously a lot of seasonality. But even the number of employees that were tasked with hiring to service our customers, training and onboarding every year, is a significant number. And the more we put those employees as our primary focus to give them the tools, the safety equipment, the systems, the vehicles to operate their jobs the right way, the more their job satisfaction will go up and the more we'll see that valuable resource of our employees turnover come down. So that will, Bob, drive the margin expansion just by being able to reduce the cost we pay to recruit and onboard employees. So that is our first step. And by doing that, that translates to them being able to serve the customer better and help us in that retention, as you said, to drive additional organic growth in the business. But our efforts to onboard and train customers right now are too high. That's why we have to prioritize our employees so we can make sure those employees are embracing a customer-centric focused business, and they know the importance they play in that journey.

Thanks, Bob.

Hey, good morning. You're welcome.

Yeah. So I'll start off and then I'll kick it over to Brett. I'd just remind everybody, our focus was profitable growth and margin expansion. So the team has been focused to make sure the customers that we're going after are the customers that fit that profile. And the businesses that we're focused on growing are businesses that are focused in that area, more of our core business, as you heard Brett mention on the call. So let me let Brett kind of decompose this for you. But just remember, our focus is not just chasing revenue. It's going to be make sure the revenue we bring is accretive to our base business as we bring in new customers. So Brett, why don't you give them a little more detail on the financial side.

Yeah. I think, obviously, it's a good question. I think if you look at what we've done for guidance is we gave a full annual guide on revenue. And really in that annual revenue guide of $2.825 billion to $2.975 billion, we've also given a range for where we believe our snow revenue will come out, which is $210 million to $270 million. Our Development business, which had an outstanding year last year, we think will continue to grow slightly. So we give a range because we don't want to really break down exactly each component. We think potentially, as we go through Q1 here, we'll see a similar trend to what we saw in Q4 as we focus our employees so that we can look to enhance our employees so they can make sure they drive retention with our customers. So I know that the change to give annual guide is a little different. So one way I think everybody should think about those numbers is our Q1 would normally be roughly about 22.5% of our total revenue. And then that snow business, you could consider roughly about 25% of it coming in Q1, 75% coming in Q2. And that probably would allow you to kind of back into your assumptions, looking at last year's development by quarter of where we think revenue will grow over the next couple of months on maintenance. I hope that gives you enough on the pieces. But Brett, do you got anything you want to add or...

Good morning, Maggie. I wanted to start out on free cash flow. You had a really impressive step up this year. Can you talk about the nonrecurring benefit from this year and any of the other moving pieces that kind of get you to that fiscal '24 guidance? And then on the CapEx side, the guide implies a pretty big increase next year. Is that more of a catch-up for the business? Or is this a reasonable level to assume going forward?

Yeah, Maggie, let me start. I'll take the back half of your question with the capital, and then I'll kick it over to Brett on the free cash flow. I think, as Brett had commented, the business did the right things in 2023, when we made strategic decisions to manage the capital down when we saw the snow business with the record level of reduced snow that we saw last year and the business reacted very well. Thus, demonstrating our ability to flex the business up or down and drive it by our CapEx and produce the free cash flow that we did. As far as the future guide on that free cash flow, I think a healthy range is probably closer, maybe 3.5% that Brett mentioned is a little elevated, but I do think there's a plan for us to drive maybe a little shorter-term use of our vehicles and get a little more residual value as we go through the process, and we're going to have a little catch-up on that. Because don't forget, these vehicles that our employees operated in, they are our billboard that goes out and visits our customers. So the appearance of those that our employees work in every day is critical for our brand that we represent the customers. But let me kick it over to Brett, and he can give you some on the non-reoccurring.

Yeah. Yeah. Great question, Maggie. First of all, I am a absolute firm believer in M&A. I am a supportive person that when we can make an investment, when we can be a better owner of the asset, we should take advantage of that. And as being the nation's largest landscape provider, we should be able to do that. Unfortunately, I think historically, the way we've done M&A at BrightView, needs to be revamped. We have to get our operators involved earlier. We have to evaluate M&A, not just on the short-term financial benefits. We have to look at culturally and strategically as important as just the initial math. And then the day that we buy a company, we must integrate it into our business. We are going to put our precious capital to work deploying it for M&A. So we have to find a way to make sure our foundation is ready that when that capital gets deployed, we grow that business. and we grow it very profitably because as the owner of that business, we can leverage our size and scale to provide processes, provided systems and corporate overhead that they shouldn't need on their own. So I am a firm believer in M&A. Maybe for the next couple of quarters, we don't plan on doing much, but we have already started to revamp our process to get everybody working together, starting with our field leaders to make sure the deals we do are the right deals. And then as we bring them in, we find a way to make sure we're a much better owner of that asset as part of BrightView. So make no -- we didn't put a lot into our guide, but make no bones about it. I am a firm believer in M&A. We just need to pause here to make sure we get ready. So once we do M&A, it creates shareholder value for all of our shareholders.

Thanks, Maggie.

Good morning, George.

Yeah. So it's a good question, George. What I would say is, as Brett talked about, through our price realization, our focus on every account is to make sure as we feel some of those inflationary impacts, we find a way to work with our customers to make sure that the service we're providing reflects the value they see. Sometimes, that creates price increases. Sometimes, it's service reductions because they don't want to spend more money and we partner with our customers to find a way to make sure it's a win-win situation. So what I can tell you is we continue to evaluate all of our businesses to make sure they're working together well. And every part of our business is accretive to our customer value that we put out there. So after 45 days, I think the team is doing the right thing. And I also think there's a better way for us to go to market, to look at new accounts that could fill out our existing route and our partners at One Rock have really helped us start to look at ways that we can enhance the profitability of existing routes just by adding strategic customers. So I don't think that's a on-off point, I think it's going to be an evolution for us to continue to go through and continue to focus on because that is the essence of this business, route optimization, enhancing, making sure that our people service the customers and finding customers that can fill in those routes. And I was looking at what it costs to service the business that we're providing. So I think short term, we made some decisions. But long term, George, it's a much bigger discussion about how are we going to manage the business long term. And as One BrightView, that's where we really see the benefit for our customers.

Yeah. It's a great question. First, we have a very strong backlog in our Development group. And I think as many people know, the economy has been on a roll. And some of that backlog is at the end of those jobs that have occurred over the last couple of years in the construction industry. So that team has done a very good job securing a backlog of business, well north of what we would typically see at this time. But let me let Brett unpack it a little bit for you, if that would help.

Yeah. And George, let me jump on in, I think Development has been -- I mean I would just add, George, I think the Development business for us has been a key area of growth. Where we need to get better as a team is finding a way to convert that Development business that we generate to new Maintenance business. And that's where that One BrightView will come into play. We have one of the top 50 specialty companies in construction in North America, and they do some of the biggest development on landscaping projects in the country. We need to find a way to make sure we have a successful handoff from that development to our Maintenance team as One BrightView. So this is the lead-in to help that organic growth on Maintenance. So I like that it keeps growing and our team in the field continues to enhance and beautify our communities. Now we just need to convert that over to future maintenance revenue so we can get the Maintenance group growing just as fast as the Development group.

Yeah. So that's a great question, Andy. I would just say at a high level, Project Liberty was focused on some initial benefits from cost saves. And if you go back, it started out as Project Accelerate. So I think we've seen a lot of that. We still have an area to go when it comes to the procurement initiative that we'll work through in 2024. But as you've heard, we're going to try to transition from primarily those cost save initiatives to more of that One BrightView approach, where we can focus on customer retention and on new account conversion to make sure we're growing the business at the same time so we can leverage size and scale. But Brett can probably give you the numbers. Obviously, the benefit we said that would come in 2024, $20 million is embedded in our guidance that you see coming out with the midpoint EBITDA at $325 million, but I'll let Brett talk to what he feels came in during '23 and where we're at towards our run rate for '24.

Yeah, that's a quick summary. But just as we think about moving forward, and we get on our net to talk about One BrightView. This is the way we're going to operate the business. So we are morphing a project that had a sticker tag on it of $20 million to we operate the business. And the way we operate their business will be included in our future guides. And we did our best to include that in our full year guide this go around the $310 million to $340 million. So yes, I would say that includes somewhere around $15 million of, call it, legacy Project Accelerate, Project Liberty. But the remainder of the improvement in that guide is going to just be the way we run the business.

No. I definitely think our guidance is a guidance that we feel comfortable with, with an EBITDA range that's well above the $299 million we delivered this year. So I don't see by any means that being a conservative range. Going from $310 million to $345 million is -- $340 million is very realistic and $345 million is very realistic. So I think somewhere around that $325 million is good starting point for us. Now to be fair, we don't know how much it's going to snow and we don't know when it's going to snow and we gave you a guide on that range. If it snows at the high end, of that expected $210 million to $270 million, we can come in end of that range. If it doesn't snow, like it didn't snow last year, there's a chance we'll come in towards the low end. But I wouldn't look at guide as a complete, we're trying to be conservative as we come out. We feel that where our plan is this year with what we felt in Q4, we're realistic to get into this range where we came out with the start of the year. And shifting from given quarterly guidance to giving an annual guidance, that's a big shift. I think we are going to start helping people, see what we plan on doing for the full year versus just running the business tactically quarter-by-quarter.

Thanks, Andy.

Thank you, operator. And thank you to everyone for your interest in BrightView. As you can tell by our tone, we are very excited about the opportunity ahead for Brightview, and I'm thrilled to be leading this great company through this improvement period. Our objectives are clear. We are committed to becoming One Brightview, growing profitably and creating meaningful shareholder value. I look forward to getting to know many of you in the weeks and months to come. There's a lot of work ahead of us. But for the future is bright for One for -- BrightView. Thank you. Operator, you can now end the call.