Dan Florness
Fastenal Company (FAST) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

One thing that was an interesting update we had this week, our Head of Transportation, we've done a lot of work over the last several years to improve our own ability to track product. So if I'm in a branch, I can pull up a screen now. And if I'm looking for some product, I can look at it and say, oh, the truck that's bringing that is in the middle of Nebraska and it's going to be here in 30 minutes, it could be here in 3 hours or it might be on a container. And we've gotten to the point now where we're tracking it where we're seeing it at the container level. So he pulled up the screen the other day and the number of dots you saw on the map that went around the southern tip of Africa were meaningful. And I didn't see any dots that went through the Suez Canal on the product we were moving. And that just was a snapshot at that point in time in the information.

A lot of our products, Dave, does come in through the West Coast. In recent years, as our volumes have grown, we have more containers that would -- we'd bring in to the East Coast, so bringing it into our North Carolina facility, our Atlanta facility because when you're bringing full containers in. But historically, a lot of our product comes into the West Coast.

I'm not aware of any but it wouldn't surprise me. And -- because if you look at where the outgrowth is coming from, it's coming from fewer and fewer. So it wouldn't surprise me, but I'm not aware of any, David.

One thing I think I've shared in prior calls, I have conversations with all of our district managers throughout the course of the year. And one thing that I've seen that's changed is our average DM has the opportunity for about 60 Onsites. And so we're having these conversations. You could tell the ones that were really dialed in, the ones that aren't. The ones that are really dialed in are sitting there with, hey, here's my number of potential, here's what we have, the top, the form that's warming. And how good they are at communicating that tells me, hey, do they have a plan that you feel comfortable come into the year their pipelines to give them a couple of Onsites? With 240 district managers, if a high percentage are a really good plan to give them a couple of Onsites, maybe some have three, maybe some have one, but consistently a couple of Onsites, you're at your number with cushion and you feel good about what's your pipeline.

Well, for really about the last five, six years, we made a really concerted effort to go after that business, because with our vending platform and our strength in the safety area, it's a natural fit for us to be a great partner to that type of customer. And we saw really nice growth in it. And when I think of like when COVID hit that and our government business and our access to safety products were a lifeboat to helping us get through that very successfully, because the industrial business was just hammered when we went through that period. And so it's become an ever larger piece. If I think about it discretely now, there's a number of things going on. There's -- we had -- I won't attribute it to necessarily customer acquisition. We're always adding locations with those customers because they're growing. But it continues to be deeper penetration, and we had examples where some other suppliers couldn't get stuff to them, and we stepped up to the plate and helped, which always helps our position to be a stronger partner and to gain market share with that customer, because you rely on people you can rely on. And so those things really helped us and they have a strong business environment themselves and they're using more products. And we had some examples where there were some products they needed that we were uniquely situated to help them with. Sometimes it was for the safety of their employees, sometimes it was moving some product around. And things just call us really well in the quarter.

Probably the piece that I'd throw out on that, it relates less to the question per se and more to an example. So we had our Board meeting last couple of days. And one thing I ask of all of our leadership team is, hey, be in one of the week of the Board meeting. You spent some time with your teams, with other folks and be here because we participate in the Board meetings in person. We had one person that wasn't here because he was sitting at an airport in Nashville, Tennessee, and there was 8 inches of snow. And so he participated remotely and I was sitting with him this morning, and he's kind of freaked out right now because the winter weather has not been our friend in January. And it's not been our industry's friend, it's not been our customers' friend. In fact, I received a picture the other day, it was actually from a supplier in the Memphis area, so a little bit further west from Nashville. And had a picture of their warehouse, their distribution facility and their head of sales sent it over to our traffic manager and said, every truck that was coming and pick up product that they canceled, except for one. And he said there was a blue Fastenal semi that was here 15 minutes ago, I'm sorry it wasn't in the picture, but it was great to see you guys still run it. And so the weather is hammering the month pretty hard. Well, there's a lot of months left, we'll see how we dig out, no pun intended. But our distribution network is working, that's a beautiful thing and that truck was there to pick up product.

When I think of Onsites, Onsite and e-com don't even come into play. I could see -- because really what the Onsite is about is we're stepping into their shoes and we're operating inside their facility on something that they were probably doing themselves before, and didn't really have the expertise or the tools or the visibility into the supply chain that we have to help operate it more effectively, more efficiently. And then we arm that Onsite with all the tools we have in place, whether it be vending machines or technology embedded bins or areas where we're scanning, it's just a much more efficient way to operate. And that's about logistics as much as it is ordering, because quite frankly, when there on Onsite, anything that's gone through FMI and FMI is a high percentage of Onsite, anything going through FMI, the customers hasn't been really ordering it. And so e-commerce really isn't the thing there. E-commerce is probably a bigger thing with smaller customers, because oftentimes, smaller customers buy, and sometimes the way you and I do. I buy a lot of stuff online. The other part it can play into is -- and we saw this really in 2020, a market change in activity in that when all of a sudden, people started working more remotely, you're ordering more things electronically than maybe you were before, because we're delivering product in one of the facilities, they might catch us and order some stuff, they might phone us. And people tend to phone less when they're at home, they tend to do more things on the computer. At least that's what we're seeing.

But a high percentage of that e-commerce you're talking about is EDI…

Coming into the year, that would be our expectation. But as far as competition, we have competition in everything we do. There's a lot of companies out there that we compete with other local businesses that do Onsite. What they don't have is maybe some of the tools. And a natural strength to our Onsite model is the fact that we have the branch network, because what's really difficult and where a lot of organizations fail on pieces of Onsite, we have a natural density of people. So let's say you have an Onsite with two employees. Well, let's say employee's out on maternity leave, let's say employee's out on vacation, let's say employee, there's turnover. How do you replace that? Well, if you have 50 Fastenal employees that are in this market, it's Omaha, it's up in the Twin Cities and we have more than 50 in Twin Cities. But if you have employees in this market, you have redundancy to support that Onsite. So we have a natural advantage in that marketplace versus not necessarily a local competitor but a national competitor because we have a footprint.

First off, we made a number of changes. We moved some -- within our National Accounts team, we moved some folks around, there are some folks that aren't in roles that they had before. We made some changes in our regional leadership, that was probably -- that wasn't necessarily performance, that was more of a case of just some natural -- we all get older and still some natural changes there. I think the fact that we have the US under one leader now. Over the last 15 years, east and western United States have been under two different leaders. And so over time, there's economic reasons why all the business changes a little bit, and there's personality reasons why the business changed a little bit. If I were to characterize the Eastern US versus the Western US and I can think back to who's been the leaders of two business over time, both incredibly successful businesses. I would say the way they go about being successful is different. If I think of the western US, I think of a business that they were groundbreaking early on in Onsites and particularly in the Midwestern part of the western US, because it was a more mature business and we needed to figure out ways to keep growing. And so I think that part of the business is more -- is better at -- you have a large customer, we're better at getting deeper and deeper into that large customer. Earlier, I talked about our manufacturing division. I suspect there's a disproportionate mix of their business in the western than there is in the eastern. And I might be wrong on that, that's just me speculating.

If I think of the eastern, there's nobody better at Hunton. Going out and finding new customers and growing their business than our Eastern business unit. And again, it emanates from the leaders there's been over time, it also emanates from the industrial activity over the time. And as it relates to our business, our front doors are open. And I think -- they weren't closed that long and they weren't closed everywhere, they were closed in pockets. There's a couple of exceptions, there's a couple of states where rules are pretty onerous. And we've just said, you know what, California has too many requirements, so we just say we're keeping them closed. And there's one other state I forget what it is of I think it's Louisiana. But we've been operating that way for years in Canada. And it was primarily because as a wholesaler you just couldn't do retail transactions. So our front doors are open but we had a much different business. We grew faster in Canada. I hope that answers your question.

Most of our revenue, we don't even know where our location is.

I don't know if there's any other questions in queue. We're at 3 minutes to the hour, so I think I'll call it there. If anybody got cut off -- if anybody was cut off, I apologize for that. I just want to close this one thought. I just got back two days ago from a week -- eight day trip. I was over in Shanghai and Ningbo, China. And there's a lot of nascent level, global level wrangling that occurs in society, and I guess that's just the nature of life. I have to say, I was over there. We celebrated 20 years of Fastco, our trading company and 20 years of our sales organization over there. The people I met were incredible. I've spent a lot of time with our team right in Shanghai. I spent good time with our Fastco team, a handful of district managers, our RVP over there, our Senior VP that covers the European and Asian business and went down and visited a branch in south -- down by Suzhou, and I hope I pronounced that correctly. And great people and really impressed with what I saw and the dedication they have to what we're about, what our customers are about. And when I think of the -- our branch manager I met down in Suzhou, what an outstanding young man and the team he had really impressive people. And I'm always amazed their grasp with the English language. It's probably better than my grasp of the English language. With that, thanks for your time today and everybody have a great rest of day. Thank you.