Dan Batrack
Tetra Tech, Inc. (TTEK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Sam.

It’s a great question. There’s no doubt IIJA or the Infrastructure Stimulus Program has been maybe the hottest topic that has been asked ever since we got passed into law here getting close to two years ago now.

For us, we are seeing the first revenue contributions and I know your question went to backlog, and I will address that. But we are now seeing actual revenue contributions from specific clear earmarked programs associated with IIJA.

We did press release earlier just this week, a $33 million lock and dam inland navigation program for the Army Corps of Engineers that is not just a contract capacity, is within a $200 million contract that we were awarded and it’s a $33 million individual project.

So I will work a little bit backwards on this for this year, fiscal year 2024 and we have got a little bit less than $50 million anticipated to contribute to revenues. You can see that $33 million program will largely be completed over this next year. It really accounts for pretty much only what we have in orders already and so we think this is the beginning of a ramp-up.

We think this year we will see backlog begin to grow. We have got just probably a little under $50 million in backlog. So that’s what we have calculated for revenue contribution this year. Hopefully, it turns out to be conservative, but that’s what we see this year.

I do see it continuing to ramp. I think that we will add more contract capacity. It’s already measured in hundreds of millions of dollars just for IIIJA programs. I expect that number to go up quite significantly as we move toward the end of this fiscal year in contract capacity and orders.

I do think that the peak and we -- I will let you know as we get closer to the end of the year, but it does look like the peak for us would be late 2025 and early 2026. So I think that the number this year that we have embedded, again, is around $50 million of actual revenue.

I think that number will go up by several fold when you move into 2025 and since we are very early in the program with respect to infrastructure projects, both on the initial permitting, initial design layout we should see that much earlier than others would see it in the overall duration of the IIJA program.

That’s another great question, Sam. It’s interesting, we, of course, see these headlines. So let me start with how big is Tetra Tech’s renewable energy business overall right now? It’s about 5% of our business. So it’s about $200 million a year.

Half of it has been longstanding traditional work with hydro or hydro power production. So that’s about $100 million. So that leaves the other $100 million roughly. So a couple of percent for the company associated with wind, both on and offshore and solar primarily. That makes up the rest.

Now the headlines with respect to offshore wind being more expensive, potentially more difficult to move online. In many ways, it’s actually -- I don’t want to say it’s good news. We never want anything that’s difficult for our clients to be good news. But it actually is from a project standpoint, good news for us, because we can help our clients actually find different ways to get their projects completed at a lower price point.

So if they would do it in a more traditional manner and I would say with other firms that might be less experienced, have less technical approach to it, their projects may not be viable. But certainly, some of the approaches that we have to make these projects more viable and in the instances where they don’t fit within their economic portfolio, we can actually come up with contributions on how they actually might move this to other developers who would fit within their economics.

With respect to the one big developer who did cancel two programs, on the East Coast of the U.S. Those were not two of our programs. So we are not associated with those at all. I certainly have had a few incoming calls asking how disruptive is that to our business.

And I said, not only is it not disruptive, the experts for Tetra Tech that are running other offshore winds for the same developer that are moving forward have commented to me that this is actually good.

They will likely be resold to other developers, if they elect not to move forward themselves and that would actually give us a chance to move forward with them. So in a strange way, this is actually not moving forward with the existing leaseholders give us additional opportunities beyond what we even had today.

So we don’t actually see it as a negative. I think I shared with you the current dollar amount that we are doing in this field now and I think the future still looks very promising in this area. I have always said that it’s not going to be a perfectly smooth downhill road on this. There’s going to be a pothole or a speed bump along the way. I would put these in that category.

But the final destination of expanding the renewable or alternative energy generation is without question, where the industry, and frankly, the world is going, and we want to be at the forefront of making that happen.

Yeah. Thank you very much, Sam.

They weren’t. They were really -- they were stronger than we normally see from those geographies that you just mentioned, Australia, Canada, U.K. But the fourth quarter of our fiscal year aligns with the end of the U.S. Federal Government year and that’s when the final funding where some, say, the final -- I don’t want to use the -- final topping off of projects takes place. So typically, in the fourth quarter is our biggest order from the U.S. Federal Government and that was definitely the case.

So I would say, Q1s, Q2 and Q3 are more representative of other sources. But the fourth quarter is the Federal Government’s truing everything up from what they didn’t spend during the year and that’s what really drove the biggest numbers.

Well, yes. I think my ambitious goal is and this is to all the Tetra Tech experts and management in the CIG side. I am looking forward to CIG eclipsing GSG. So, but I guess we first got to match and it’s getting closer.

I think that the performance in the commercial side has been good and -- but I will say that some of the extraordinary contributions such as disasters, some of the emergency work we do regarding very high priorities, can make catching them a little bit more difficult.

But notwithstanding these extraordinary revenue contributions that drives very high utilization and positively impacts margins. If you sort of set that aside, maybe in 2024, CIG will catch them. So, yes, we are looking for them to catch and really the commercial side has the potential to be higher than the government side in a robust economic environment.

Thank you, Tate.

Yeah. Those are two great points with respect to things that were sort of standouts or great contributors in our fourth quarter. I will start with Ukraine. Ukraine, we have been doing what I call a -- an ongoing assistance level that we had even before the outbreak of the hostilities in Ukraine, which has probably been maybe $10 million a quarter or something like that, but we did an additional $40 million.

So I think if you actually looked at Ukraine overall, we are probably just slightly above $50 million in the quarter and $40 million of that, I would call, incrementally higher than what we had anticipated coming in.

That was for a lot of humanitarian work and now it is cost plus work. So it is a very low risk to the company. We don’t carry a big margin in that work for supporting humanitarian work. We do get paid quite quickly and it’s a low risk financially, but it does carry slightly lower margins.

So -- what was the good thing in the quarter is it did help drive by about $40 million to beat on the top end revenue, Ukraine specifically. Above what we sort of had anticipated at the sort of maintenance level that we are doing, both in Ukraine and we have other areas around the world.

But it did contribute to earnings per share, but actually, it kind of moderated the margin that we had in GSG, because that carried lower margins. So it was good. On the revenue side, it was good on EPS, but on margin. So it -- there’s two sides to that coin.

With respect to margins in the quarter, we did not have a true award fee or any special award from our clients to make up for the great work we have done. But conversely, on the other side, we did have additional fee from just great performance from our project managers, and I would call, those project closeouts.

The examples of those are, we often carry a small amount in our projects, 1% or 2% for contingency in the event that there’s something that might have to be reworked or additional comments from regulators on some aspect. And a lot of these projects were closed out with no comment and in fact, accelerated approval from the regulators and outside stakeholders on our work.

So that also contributed to, I would say, a byproduct of it or sort of a bank shot that contributed. You can see it in our DSO. When you are getting paid that quick and that much in advance of what your regular schedule is, you can see it in the DSO and you see it at 54 days.

And that also means when you are getting paid that quick and projects are going that well, then you are able to close out without having to use up contingency items. So I would say, there was the project closeouts in the fourth quarter just because of excellent project management and technical delivery from our staff across the company.

There’s a lot of moving pieces there. Let me start at a high level and then I will let Steve talk to interest in some of the other items embedded within the company that we have. So for instance, our IAS up hired this year, because having RPS for a full year. But let me start at a high level.

We do -- we have embedded, if you do the calculations of our low end of our revenue range to the low end of our EPS range. You would see there’s about a 50-basis-point increase. In fact, you would see it quite uniform, if you went high, high and mid, mid and you did the calculation, you will see about a 50-basis-point increase.

I do think if you take a look at a favorable mix, which might be a low end of revenue and a high end of EPS, you would be up at about an 80-basis-point increase within fiscal year 2024. So that’s sort of a range.

I will say that RPS was not with Tetra Tech in the first quarter of last year. It didn’t join us until the very end of January. So our guidance for the first quarter, margins are actually weighed on a little bit, even though they are higher than last year, they are weighed on a little bit, because RPS’ margins still are not at a level of Tetra Tech. In fact, Tetra Tech is up around 13%-ish, maybe a little more and they will be coming into the year around 10%.

So in the first quarter, while you would expect margins to continue to increase, I will comment that we have about 20% additional revenue, which represents RPS at a lower margin, and of course, it will ramp through the year. So I think there are a number of puts and takes.

But overall, I would go to the annual year at somewhere between 50 basis points to 80 basis points depending on how you take the comparisons of different components of our margin within guidance for 2024. And let me have Steve speak to some of the individual moving items such as interest and other items.

Great. Thank you very much, Andy.

Good morning, Ryan.

Yeah. I think you have hit it right and I think it went to the comment I had while it’s a different end market, my comments on offshore wind. My comment was that before anything that’s built you actually have to come up with a plan before you will build something.

So the Buy America Build America and have something built here, that comes much farther down the road. That’s after -- so I sort of see the projects with respect to service providers in four areas. There’s where Tetra Tech resides, which is the upfront valuation, technology assessment, initial layout permitting and that’s us. That’s what Tetra Tech does.

Second phase is -- and this goes to the other engineering companies, then you move to the full service engineering firms that will actually do detailed as-built drawings constructible drawings and they will take it from where we typically would leave at about a 30% design and they will take it all the way through detailed design, constructible design drawings.

And those are a hallmark of large engineering houses typically characterize themselves as engineering companies, which we don’t and have an attribute of having offshore low cost engineering centers.

So look for people who have big houses in Malaysia, India and places like that, they were in Phase 2. We can be very busy and they can never see a dollar of revenue unless the project is going to go to being prepared to go out.

Phase 3, which really begins to move into the BABA or the Buy America Build America. Those folks that are after it’s been built or anticipating it being built and you are bidding either a design build project, which would be putting together the engineering and the constructor.

And so that third piece is the construction piece and that’s -- you are not going to see anything coming out of the BABA part of the work until it’s ready to be it’s already been build bid and they are ready to move forward. Then you are going to see it move.

And that could be anywhere from I don’t know and the fastest I have ever seen it maybe six months to nine months later and when we finish our work, not start or finish it until they just get started, and then they will move later.

And then the fourth area I consider is really the commissioning and the O&M or the operation and maintenance people, which is the tail end of the projects once they have been commissioned. So almost every project that has a capital aspect to it has those fur faces.

You might conflate number two and three, the engineering and the construction when you go to a design build, but that doesn’t encroach on the work that we do before. You can’t go to a design build project, which then would trigger BABA spending and both backlog funding and anything that you would visibly see from IIJA until after you have done what I call the Phase 1.

Phase 1 know hallmarks, which is classic Tetra Tech, sole source, limited competition, smaller project, much more diverse and I don’t want to call it completely immune or insulated from whether or not you build it or not, but largely decoupled, largely decoupled.

And frankly, when there’s difficulties in supply chain, cost of materials, availability of construction trade labor with that, that actually means there’s more opportunity and it’s even more important to go back to your Phase 1 provider and we are one of those, and frankly, in certain areas like water, environment, sustainable infrastructure. We are clearly a market leader in those areas. But there’s other segments, there’s other people that are -- will benefit from IIJA.

But I hope that sort of describes how we see this in a relationship with respect to what’s coming out of IIJA. And I would say for those that are farther downstream in general Phases 2, 3 and 4, they should be encouraged that we are seeing numbers come out both in contract capacity and revenue, because it’s pretty difficult to get to Phase 2, 3 and 4 without Phase 1.

Hey. Thank you very much, Ryan.

Good morning, Michael.

Well, when we -- after RPS, one of the premises we had when we had RPS joined us, and yes, it was our largest acquisition, yes, it was 5,000 people, and yes, it expanded our U.K. and Australia footprints, and yes, it did take our leverage up to just over 2 times, which is right at the upper end of our range.

But my discussion with our CFO and treasury staff is, we want to do this but without inhibiting at all Tetra Tech’s long-term plan to add technology experts, companies that can bring us new clients or new areas for growth.

So, Steve Burdick, this is great. It’s going to be great for operations. But you have got to keep that channel open and that was part of what drove the convert -- convertible debt that we put in place. I expect that you will see continued more of what we have done for years and years and years, which are small, we call them tuck-ins, some of the scaling bolt-ons, which has just sort of assimilate them into the company.

They come in as equal partners with the corporation. They are super important for us. They lead the technical areas for all of Tetra Tech. So if you are out there in firm that’s looking to think about is it a good fit for Tetra Tech. You don’t come to a Tetra Tech to work for us. You come to Tetra Tech to lead us all and so those will continue to take place.

And if, I know Steve presented on the slide and prepared remarks that we have $800 million of existing today capacity, which would be more than enough to do what we just transacted with RPS. But that’s just what’s available today. We have access to over $2 billion in direct line of sight funding that we could trigger within, frankly, within a few phone calls.

So if there are opportunistic entities that would make sense for Tetra Tech, our capital structure is not such that our balance sheet would be an inhibitor, in fact, as an enabler. So I would just say that we expect business as usual with respect to adding companies that bring in new technologies, access to new clients or round out some of the geography we have within Australia, Canada, the U.K. portions of Europe and the U.S.

But if the right company comes on -- comes along, that actually makes sense and that will make us better than we are today both for today and the long-term, we do not bet on companies coming here to make us better than 10 years from now. We know that will be the case if they come with us, but we wanted to actually show it and demonstrate it to our shareholders today and I know we have used that they will be GAAP accretive on year one.

That’s still our goal for the small tuck-ins. I do know like RPS, some of that are much larger and much more complicated. We may have a quarter or two to -- that they will be cash accretive, but it may take a quarter or two for the GAAP portion.

So expect more and more of the same. We will continue to move forward with the companies that fit with us. That should not be a surprise and that isn’t even felt we are below the midpoint. As Steve had indicated, we are below the midpoint of the range that we would like to reside in between 1 time and 2 times. We are below 1.5 times, 1.4 times if we don’t do an acquisition in the next six weeks, that ratios continue to get favorable during this year.

Hey. Thank you very much, Michael.

Well, thank you very much, Melissa. I appreciate you are moderating the call today. And I’d like to thank everyone who’s followed the company been supportive of us during fiscal year 2023. I think we are off to a bright start to 2024. I am really looking forward to talking to you in about 90 days from now on our next quarterly call to tell you how we have started off in the first quarter. And with that, I hope you enjoy not only today, the rest of this week, but I hope you have a safe and enjoyable holiday season. Thank you very much.