Dan Arnold
LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (LPLA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Alex. So look, with respect to our large enterprise channel, we opened this market up back in 2020 with a novel outsourcing solution. And initially, we targeted larger banks. And we have seen some success up to this point, capturing about $85 billion of assets to our platform. If you look at the total market for banks and outsourcing of wealth management for wealth management, it's roughly in and around $1 trillion. We believe our experience, reputation and capability set, it's a compelling solution that helps continue to strengthen that pipeline and offer up an interesting durable growth opportunity as we move forward.

That said, at the same time, we took our solution that was targeted to banks and we made some additional investments and capabilities and personalized options, which enabled us to extend the appeal of that model to, as you said, the insurance companies or product manufacturers that operate wealth management solutions. And now that market represents an additional $1.5 trillion of opportunity. And with the Prudential announcement, it was a catalyst for additional inquiries, exploring the question. So why aren't they outsourcing? And we continue to progress in these discussions and explore others. They're still in the early stages, but we do believe this part of the pipeline will continue to evolve as well.

So if I summarize it, as we move forward, we believe our market leadership capability set and a real deep IT for this enterprise channel creates a really unique growth opportunity for us. We're excited about it.

Let me take a stab at that one. It's Dan and hopefully, I'll get all your questions inside of there. So I think, as you know, M&A remains a core part of our strategy complement to our organic growth opportunities. And to your question, we focus on three primary categories of opportunities. One is, first to grow in our market. So potential acquisitions might include both broker-dealers and RIAs. Examples of that are our Boenning & Scattergood’s acquisition, Waddell & Reed acquisition and then Crown Capital, which we're closing earlier this year. So those are good examples of how we might look across the marketplace for those opportunities.

And look, as the industry continues to consolidate, we would expect to be a participant in that consolidation. The second type of transactions that we’ll look at is to add capabilities and these are capabilities where we would ultimately evaluate, allocate and should we allocate capital to build, buy or partner. And to the extent this accelerates our desire to create that vertically integrated, feature-rich platform and, this is where we would look to an opportunity like that. As capability transactions would include advisory world and delays. And to remind you, delays a trading platform that we're turning in to what we think will be a really industry-leading trading and rebalancing tool that we're making available to our entire client base in early in the spring. So excited about that type of transaction and what we can do with it.

The third type of category or example of a transaction would be deploying capital against this newest capability of liquidity and succession. Certainly gives us a path for our capital work in a way that both meets our disciplined return thresholds and then helps both internal and external advisors solve a really important question around this succession needs and requirements that we've talked a lot about over the next 10 years. And again, I think in doing that, it positions us well to not only do that for internal advisors, but also to potentially create that solution for those that aren't part of our enterprise today.

So if you just summarize all of that, we consider M&A opportunities, a core part of our strategy, but we will remain disciplined to make sure that the framework with which we assess them as they benefit strategically, financially, culturally and operationally, and we’ll do it with good discipline around each of these two. I hope that helps.

Yes, good question. So I think if we just sort of start with the first question around churn or that movement in the marketplace. And we continue to see advisor movement will remain flat. Think about that in the range of 5%, 5.5% over the other part of the last couple of years, which is you know is below historical norms. Now there has been some mix shift in that turnover where it's coming from. In fact, in the last year, you've seen movement in the traditional independent market move up where there's been a slowdown as an example from the wires. That said, notwithstanding all of that, I think we first and foremost look at our overall win rates or what is moving across all of our different affiliation models as a way to continue to understand their absolute appeal as well as their hopefully growing appeal as we invest more into the platform or the model. And as we said earlier, despite this lower movement in advisors. If you look at the relative market share, we're picking up in our win rates, you've seen those increase over the past three years with that investment back into the model.

And I think look, for the newer models, not only do we have higher opportunities to enhance the capability set there as they're on a -- just a pressure journey, if you will, in terms of our investment capabilities there. Also, their seasoning, the growing awareness and credibility they have in the marketplace can also be a catalyst for higher win rates there. So it's not just even the investment. It's that it's growing seasoning around our right to win, if you will, with those new models.

And then finally, to your point, I think one of the things that we look at is we can't completely control the movement of advisors in the marketplace. What could we do to contribute to it in this notion of concept making it easier to help an advisor move from one practice to another, given that being what we believe is one of the big hurdles for advisors moving, boy, if you could solve that or begin to break that down and imagine that in different ways and thus create a much different rubric, if you will, for the change management effort sort of associated to moving the A to B that, that could be a real catalyst to increase that movement in the industry. And so that's the question I think we're trying to explore and that I alluded to in my remarks, and we're using our services portfolio and some of the ways at which we've learned how to add value to advisors and helping them operate, fund their practices and realize that we tweak them a bit and offered them while someone is going through a conversion, that actually could be a catalyst to making easier to go through that change management. And thus, it's successful at doing that more structurally, but then you could see the knock-on effect, if you will, of potentially accelerating the movement in this industry. And with our ability to recruit and our positioning of our models in the marketplace, certainly, that's a strategic opportunity for us. So that's how we pulled that together. I hope that color added some little...

Yes. It's a great question. And I think as we think about those longer terms and what is that possibility, I think we start with the size of each of those markets. And that we've broken down in the employee base market is the largest one of all in that $11 trillion to $12 trillion range or RIA in the second. And then -- and then the sort of Swiss model that we have is a subset, if you will, typically those coming out of an employee-based model. And so, if you think about the opportunities that associated with those, I think you would start with that broader market and then you begin to then drill down on -- what's our right to win? What's our ability to win. What are the capabilities necessary to continue to grow our win rates inside those markets. And then if you do that, it's reason to believe, given the size of those markets relative to the traditional independent that even if we achieve half of the win rate or the success rates, we do on our traditional independent channel that those begin to make sizable contributions that as you were estimating -- look more like the contribution on the independent side. So what I'm not suggesting is we'll get there. What I am suggesting is that's an opportunity that it is for the continuing to work into, invest into and challenge ourselves to achieve the type of win rates we have on the independent side in these large markets. I hope that helps.

Yes. Let me take that one. Thanks for the question. We have seen some momentum, frankly, since rates have gone up, but you've seen the interesting growth in the utilization and probably predictable growth in the utilization of fixed annuities. And then when the equity markets move and have volatility in them, and variable annuities can also be interesting opportunity to deploy capital. And so I think it's been a nice tailwind for annuities for the better part of the year -- last year plus. And you're exactly right, fourth quarter just reinforced that.

I think as we go forward, the question around the DOL is a good one relative to brokerage and advisory. And I think as we think about that, we go back to our playbook we used in '15 and '16 timeframe where -- as from a principal standpoint, we believe that maintaining choice for advisors' clients is in their best interest and our interest in making sure that we do the things necessary to preserve the choice for advisors between brokerage and advisory and our ability to ensure that we can help them adequately do that as the rules change relative to Reg BI. And then again, if the DOL rule ultimately goes through and changes that slightly making sure that we're prepared to help them pivot where they can successfully continue to do that business where it's in the best interest of the clients. And I think hard to argue with making sure that you provide people choice and then ultimately enable those advisors to serve them and offering need to clients.

That said, I do believe that in many cases, annuities will continue to be used where they're needed, where they make sense as a rollover option or where they make sense in helping someone as we talked about earlier, with downside protection, it's still participating in the upside for the equity markets, there's good places to use them. I think that -- what we will see though is in other areas, you'll probably see a bigger shift to the utilization of advisory. It's just tougher to do brokerage business. There may be some places, small accounts, there may be other scenarios where given the two options, the advisor ultimately utilize the advisory solution. We're still in the best interest of the client, but also just in the spirit of making sure the business can be done in a better and efficient way.

So we do believe that's a trend. Hence, the investments in our advisory platforms, vertical integration we have around our advisor offering, again, lines up well with structural change as well. So put a capstone on it. We will and make sure that we're positioned to enable brokers to continue to be used. I do think that the DOL rule would create some headwind on the percentage of brokerage business that we see. -- but it won't be a complete change. You'll still see it utilized for some current rate.

Yes. No, our sense of it is, look, we got to make sure we execute on our strategy. We've got to invest in our capabilities, and we've got to deliver attempt to deliver an extraordinary experience on a daily basis. We have solid trends there, strengthening NPS scores, evolving capability. We expect that retention rate in that 98.5% range to 99% range to be a good way to think about our good centering point, if you will, on retention for this year outside of the example of what Matt used, where someone sells the practice to potentially solve for succession solution. And look, that was the trigger that we launched our liquidity and succession program a year ago, gave us a great opportunity to go solve that really important question that many advisors had. Those two examples, maybe we didn't launch ours and time enough to get a swing at those. And though we won't win them all, we do believe we've got a really appealing differentiated solution that will position us well, not only to help serve our clients that are already on our platform, but actually use it as a way to attract new assets to the platform because not only do we have a rich value proposition that we serve and support the daily needs, we also can help them with their succession. So that’s how we’re [indiscernible].

Yes, yes, good questions. Look, I do think you've got a number of different things that might create a slight headwind on movement than at the aggregate had brought it down from I don't know, historically, 7% kind of range for movement. And we would expect things to return and normalize over a period of time. These little headwinds that I referenced, some of it is still a bit of a hangover from COVID and just some of the change in complexity that was created as people work through that, I think, is one. I think a second one is you just got -- you've had a volatile market with a lot of geopolitical uncertainty that surrounds it and advisors avoid sometimes making big strategic moves or pivots or adjustments in periods of time where they've really got to be focused on the clients, and they don't want to create more change in the midst of uncertainty. And I think that's been something that we've seen over the last couple of years that have created some uncertainty. And I also think you see advisors also pivoting in a new world of how do they operate post pandemic? What they learned from that? What pressures does it put on their practices; the growing complexity of regulations may drive up costs? The whole digitalization of their businesses and their offices and what does that mean? And how do they think about what is the best partner for them going forward? What are the types of services that are new to them to transform their practice? I think just trying to assess what those options and alternatives are in a world that's flipped on the side.

And now you throw AI on top of that, which in the short run, creates lots of noise and exuberance. Unfortunately, it's also a shiny penny that sometimes doesn't always lead to good productive outcomes. And so I think as we get further down the road of assimilating some order to the house being flipped on its side in some cases and helping them really see where they can use technology really wisely to drive productivity with again, either leverage tools or outsource risk management to lower their costs associated with a world that's getting tougher and tougher from a regulatory standpoint, where they really do think about, hey, how do I drive growth? And what do I need in my value proposition to do that? How do I leverage folks to do? I think those are some of the interesting questions that is they're able to solve those. It enables them to move forward in a little more informed way and thus at a faster pace. So those are some of the little, I think, skirmishes, if you will, that we're trying -- we’re overcoming as we go forward in time. It will help return maybe movement back to a more normal 7%.

I'll take the first one, Matt. So, look, on the first one, I think we see an interesting pipeline on both sides of that enterprise channel. As I said before, banks and on the insurance/product manufacturer related market space. And with that portfolio, comes the continued opportunity, right, to continue to explore and learn, both how we're doing with existing programs and how that drives innovation to create more appeal in them. Second is every time you bring one on, how do you create a more automated and have a better playbook to be more efficient at doing that, so you can do that better and faster and more economically for the lower cost. And, so I would tell you we're much better than we were three years ago when we brought our first larger enterprises on and we continue to automate more and more of that kind of change management onboarding effort process.

And as you rightfully said, to the success that you're able to do that, not only are you going to create more interesting economic outcomes by lowering the amount of investment upfront in these opportunities, you also can bring them on at a faster pace. And so I think we're working our way into being able to be very thoughtful about how we bring these on in an orderly fashion assuring that first and foremost we get the experience right, that you continue to operate your existing platform at the level that you want to.

And then if you're, as you, again, get better and better at that, I think you can line those up and bring those in a faster and faster pace. And that's what we're challenging ourselves to do without being overly precise in exactly how that would look or what that looks like. I think we get, again, to challenge ourselves with pragmatic opportunities to think, how do you shorten that onboarding and change management effort? So that's the problem you can solve.

Matt, do you want to get?

Yes. And I just want to thank everyone for taking the time to join us this afternoon, and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. Thank you.