Danny Brown
Chord Energy Corporation (CHRD) Chord Energy Strategic Combination with Enerplus and Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Derrick.

Thanks for the question, Derrick. I think as we think about our opportunity to improve from D&C standpoint, we’re leaning a little bit on some of the experience we had with Oasis Whiting, where we were able to use some of the best combined practices of both organizations. And so we used Oasis practices in some areas, we used Whiting practices in other areas. And really by having that open dialogue, we were able to just really glean and use different bit technology, use different casing profiles, and it really allowed us to improve there.

So when we think about the D&C for this transaction, we’ve had the teams together at a very high level because we really haven’t been able to involve too many people in this approach so far. But even through that very short period of time, we’ve been able to identify up to $55 million in synergies associated with that. So in some of this includes expanding into three-mile laterals, and some of it improves just the overall process that we think we’ll be able to drill and complete that. But I’m going to ask Darrin maybe to expand on it just a little more.

I think the other thing to mention on a DCE standpoint, Derrick is, we’ve also just from a facilities perspective, one thing that we really did have, I think maybe lean the basin in is the way we approach our facilities and doing a standardized modular facility approach. And so these end up being much less expensive than stick building your facilities on location. And it’s a lot safer and it’s a better environmental footprint as well, so that’s another part, sort of a synergy that will roll through into the overall DC&E cost.

So I think you’re hitting on it, Derrick. And our experience, again, we’re able to lean a little bit on the recent transaction with Oasis Whiting. What we saw there is it took about a year before we saw the operational synergies roll through. And part of that is, and I’ll give an example, one of the legacy organizations in the previous transaction had a different rod installation practice and a different material practice than the other, which led to much longer runtimes on our rod pumps.

And so we had lower failure rate over time. So when you have that lower failure rate, you don’t have to do the repair work, but that takes time to sort of bear fruit. And so as we think about these operational practices, some of it’s about reducing future failure rate and it’s the lack of future workovers and future LOE that really rolls through. And so that’s part of that delay. It’s just that you implement different operating practices and then you see the benefit of it later and that’s certainly what we saw with Whiting and Oasis.

Thanks, Derrick.

Well, I say when we probably won't get too much into marketing, we need to – we won't get the teams together to start talking about any of that until sometime post close. From an OFS perspective, I think both companies had good contracts with folks in the basin. Both had premier programs. I think the real savings we may see from that sort of practice isn't so much through per job savings, although, we could see some of that. But it's really about the operational efficiency we're going to pick up through the program.

And so you can imagine running one completion crew, but not being able to run it through the course of the year. If you're able to sign a longer contract, because you've got that program through the entire course of the year, you’re going to do – you're able to not only get contract – see, contract savings, but your operation is actually much more efficient as well. So your per job cost goes down on two fronts. So that's kind of how we're thinking about it.

So looking at anticipated close, potentially by mid-year.

No.

Yes. I think as we get the teams together, we've got a spacing philosophy that's generally a little wider, has wells that are a little longer, somewhat due to the least geometry we have with some larger completions. And that's worked well for us over time. I think as we get the teams together, we're going to evaluate on really a DSU and sort of DSU by DSU basis, what's the appropriate development methodology for that specific area.

And so we will – one of the things we know is that we don't want to overcapitalize areas, but by the same token, what we don't want to do is space out too wide so that we're missing high return opportunities within that DSU. So I think you may see spacing a little wider as we move forward, but it's something we need to get the teams together and share best practice and is itshare learnings, and it's one of the opportunities for actual value enhancement as we think about this deal.

Thanks.

Thanks, David.

Yes. I think as we move forward, it's going to take, as you can imagine, there is an inertia to a development program. And so you've got to get all your permits done, you've got your infrastructure laid out. And so unfortunately, they don't move really quickly. And we haven't been able to get the teams together to really work a pro forma development plan in detail. And some of – we'll have some restrictions on doing that up until close. And so we will -- through the transition process, we'll develop a combined development program. Clearly, we've got assumptions we're using now, but we'll refine that as we move forward. And then post close, we'll roll out a full new development plan for the post closed organization.

And in that process, one of the advantages we will get with this is more continuous operations and a better balance of being able to run operations continuously. And when I say better balance, just not the need to start and stop crews as the year moves on, because the overall pro forma program will be larger and we should be able to pick up some operational benefit as a result of that.

Well, I'd say it's hard to speculate on what happens moving forward. Really kind of focused on this deal and what this deal does for both of our respective organizations.

Michael?

Thanks, David.

Again, John, I'd say it's kind of hard to speculate on sort of future hypothetical opportunities. I think the strong pro forma balance sheet we got – we have is going to give us a lot of flexibility, and that could give us flexibility from a return on capital standpoint to weather resiliency with commodity price fluctuations or to pursue different growth opportunities. And so I think we'll take those things as we see them in the future. But the Number 1 priority is going to be putting these companies together, really coming together to get the best out of both organizations. Both organizations have done an incredible job, and we can learn from each other and get better though. So that's going to be the first and foremost is we're going to get the most out of putting these two companies together.

Yes. I think as we look at the Appalachian position, it represents about, it's a great, it's in a great spot in the basin – core position in the basin with a good operator. It represents only about 2% of the pro forma EBITDA. So I think as we – it's a very small part of the overall company. And as we look at – we'll sort of treat it like other, all aspects of our portfolio. We'll continually evaluate sort of all aspects of our portfolio on should they stay in or should they not stay in.

Thanks John.

Thanks Kevin.

I'd just like to thank everybody for joining the call today. It's an exciting day for both Chord and Enerplus shareholders as we are able to announce this very important transaction and a combination that we think is really going to benefit both of our shareholders as we move forward. So thank you for giving us your time this afternoon and for joining our call.
