Dave Kimbell
Ulta Beauty, Inc. (ULTA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Rupesh, thanks for your question and thanks for calling out, Scott. Well deserved. Yes, I'll say on makeup and I'll even speak a little bit more broadly across all of our categories. We are focused on driving growth in every part of our business. Our makeup business in 2023 particularly in the second half, we saw healthy growth on the mass side and more challenges on the prestige side. So we have a strategy to drive performance within all parts of our makeup business. It is our largest segment and obviously important in the beauty category. Our efforts are holistic. We've got a number of new brands that we believe will either already are or will add value to the category, including the launch of Charlotte Tilbury, which just rolled out recently. Also, exclusive brands like Half Magic and Polite Society, Reven. Innovation from our existing big brands that we'll continue to see that have been so important to our business like Tarte and Benefit and Clinique and Lancome on the prestige side.

Our luxury proposition really launched last year with a lot of success and as we continue to grow and build our presence in that space, we see that as a contributor. And then through our holistic efforts, we're going to try to find ways to lean in to the important trends. Makeup is, of course, has a key trend component. So whether it's blush, shade, proliferation, lip layering, matte makeup, nail is an important opportunity, we're going to continue to drive that. And the last thing I'd say is we continue to revamp and elevate our events that play an important role in mass migration. The number of mass consumers that we've acquired over the years, continuing to introduce them to prestige for the first time. So we're focused on driving that business. We are confident over time that we'll be able to deliver the growth that we expect, and we're working hard to deliver across all parts of that business.

Hey, I'm just going to say we're really excited about this announcement. And really, as I said in the prepared remarks, see Mexico as a great opportunity that's tailor-made for the Ulta Beauty experience. Kecia is leading this effort among many things that she does, so I'm going to ask Kecia to give some more color on it.

Well, for the overall category, as I mentioned in the remarks, we're fortunate to meet a category that continues to be healthy, that is highly connected to our consumers, a high level of engagement. There's an emotional connection that's driving the category and has been for a very long time and then certainly coming out of COVID has been exceptionally strong. All indicators as we look at the consumer landscape is continued level of engagement. When we look into this year, though, of course, we are evaluating and anticipating and preparing for consumer behavior to continue to evolve. We know there's external pressures on the consumer. We know we're entering into a dynamic time with an election year. And what we've seen in this category is strong growth, but as expected, some moderation in that growth, still above historical trends, but some moderation. Simply put, we think consumers are highly engaged in the category but still passionate about the category, but will continue to be thoughtful in all of their spending. But fortunately, we know that beauty is an important one. And as a reminder, Ulta Beauty is well positioned to manage through really any kind of economic disruption or challenge given our unique portfolio, all price points, all categories that allow us to meet our consumers' needs if there is a time that they feel more pressured or have other changes. But overall, category healthy. Paula, as it relates to any potential margin changes?

Yes, we're really pleased with the progress that we've made as a reminder for those on the call. This really does represent a way for us to generate positive impact on our business by leveraging the first-party data and insights that we have in partnering with our brands. We're not sharing, we haven't shared, and we don't plan to share specific on number of brands or even specific financial impact at this time. But what I will say is we're really pleased with the progress that we've made in 2023 and are confident that we'll continue to grow this part of the business. The network that we have offers advertising access via off-site display, video, social influencers, as well as on-site sponsored products. Our on-site display inventory is one of the actually new core offerings that we activated just in 2023. So we've got a full suite of ad inventory experiences, value-added services, and as I said, we're confident in its impact going forward. And the support engagement reaction from brands has been very positive. As you know, the advertising world continues to evolve. So the value that we can bring through first-party data with 43 million beauty enthusiasts is very meaningful, and we continue to work with our brand partners, and they have demonstrated to us that they see a positive return and we're continuing to grow that business.

Okay, thanks Olivia. Yes, I'll talk about new product at our newness pipeline and then Paula can pick up on your question around margins, so yeah, we're, well, first I'll say newness is always a critical part of our business and historically has been between 20% to 30% of our sales And that's an important part of the category and one of the best things about the category There is a large desire from our beauty enthusiasts guests from our members to discover what's new and exciting across all of our categories and so we do have what I believe is a well-balanced portfolio of new brands between big, recognized brands like Charlotte Tilbury, as well as a steady stream of emerging brands that are unique or exciting within the Ulta Beauty environment, and so we're not going to give any specific numbers about newness this year versus last year, but I will give you a couple of highlights. First, you mentioned Charlotte Tilbury, and just to reiterate, that is in 600 stores and online, and we're excited about that. It was one of the top requested brands from our members, and we're pleased to be partnering with them to bring a unique and powerful experience to life. The Sol de Janeiro is in 700 stores and also online, and also was highly requested and brings just a terrific experience in store and online and has been very well received since we launched that in January.

But there's a whole range of products that we're going to continue to launch and bring to life. We do focus, as I said, on emerging brands. And while I'm not going to for competitive reasons share some of the pipeline that are ahead of us, I'd highlight some of the brands that we launched last year, like Lola Bay, Polite Society, Half Magic, a brand like Live Tinted, which has been with us for a little bit, important brands playing an exciting role in driving growth in various categories that we're excited about, and our luxury business that I talked about. We continue to add brands to that throughout the year and see growth. So newness important. We like the balance that we have. We're excited about the brands that we've launched so far, and I look forward to rolling out more partnerships and bringing newness across our portfolio throughout 2024. Paula, on the margin question?

Great. Well, thanks for the question. Yes, luxury, as I said, was one of many initiatives last year to drive engagement, and we're really pleased with establishing that more firmly with some of our existing partners, including Chanel, but Dior, Natasha Denona, Pat McGrath and so we see strong performance and we're really pleased with how our guests are engaging in that part of the business. We had a lot of confidence going in because of existing relationships with brands like Chanel then by elevating and expanding it, it has really, we believe met our guest needs and they're excited about it and further demonstrates our ability to deliver all things beauty, from all price points, including luxury. We're not sharing any specific launches of anything beyond what I've already shared today. More broadly, as I said, with Nunu’s, we have a steady stream of Nunu’s throughout the year and we'll continue to innovate.

Specifically within luxury, our focus is continuing to grow in partnership with the brands that we've launched and find new ways to expand those businesses and delight our guests with them. We're really pleased and proud to have that experience in our stores.

So, yes, just on the promotional environment, I probably won't answer every one of your detailed questions because we're not going to break it out that way exactly. What I'll say more broadly is we're not expecting that the promotional environment is going to significantly intensify and become irrational. We are in a competitive environment. That's for sure. And we are focused on ensuring that we're delivering on our leadership position. So as we look forward, we would anticipate and we have in our plans the ability to drive our business, which includes marketing, store labor, digital experiences, and promotional activity as appropriate. But not an expectation more broadly for a significant step. And we do anticipate, as we saw in 2023, that it will still remain well below 2019 levels. The mass to -- mass, prestige question. Yes, we see opportunity across both parts of the business. Yes, consumers are engaged, and young consumers are engaged in mass, but they're also engaged in prestige. They're loving our luxury experience. So it's really not so much about price or promotion necessarily as what brand is really delivering great innovation, great marketing, engaging with them in social media. Those brands will win regardless of the price points. Paula, do you want to give a little color on some of the four to five?

Great, thank you. And thanks everyone for joining today. I'd like to close by thanking our 55, 000 associates for delivering a strong 2023. Together I know we will continue to unleash the unique power of beauty and keep moving our business forward in exciting ways. I'm optimistic about the future of Ulta Beauty and confident we will continue to create significant shareholder value. I do want to take one second to thank Scott again. Scott, as I said, has been an amazing partner to all of us and I so appreciate his impact and his leadership. And I want to thank those on the call that had the chance to thank him yourself. I know he loved spending time in all of our meetings and all of our earnings calls. I know he appreciated partnership with all of you and I do want to thank Scott for everything you've done for our company. Thank you, Scott. We look forward to speaking to all of you again when we report results for the first quarter of fiscal 2024 on May 30th. Thank you again and have a great night.
