Dave Peacock
Advantage Solutions Inc. (ADV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Greg, this is Dave Peacock. Thanks for the question. And I would say that's probably not correct. We're continuing to go through a portfolio. We see opportunities in areas as we refine what our core business capabilities are. And obviously I don't want to comment on any -- you know processes are activities underway. But I would say that is it is probably not true that we only have smaller divestitures going forward.

Yeah to some degree yes, Greg. You know, I think you've got a couple of things going on. First the ERP system which is going to significantly streamline our financial processes, improve our speed in voice and really just improve the information flow within our finance groups. That then goes out to our business groups -- business units for quicker decision better decision making I think.

And then when you look at the well haul data modernization which is the daily cloud migration -- some of this comes in the avoidance of expenditures on costly data centers and equipment when you're using the cloud. And then a lot of it comes from enabling things like AI. And I know that's a buzzword right now, but and so we're already doing that in areas like for employees, we're looking at payroll inquiries and policies, accelerate our candidate screening, the quicker we can get the higher the better as it relates to both attraction and retention contract management. And then for customers there's a lot we can do as it relates to the validation of the work we do on -- and using AI and photos in a more in a more advanced way than we are today on just determine patterns and help with our routing of personnel so we get more efficiency on that as well.

Thanks Greg.

No appreciate, Joe. Some so on e-commerce a couple of things. First, on kind of maybe around if not a little less than 10% of revenue. If you look at either or through e-commerce it is an area where I think we have a lot of opportunity. And it's an area where we're investing some. And this would kind of be in what I'd say is our normal kind of IT investment level. So in other words, as Chris said, we've got increases for ERP data monetization, which will also help our e-commerce efforts is the data monetization. And then we have some CapEx increases to keep up with our on the demo business.

But I'm both very bullish on e-commerce right now. What I will say though which is interesting as e-commerce has returned back to sort of that 10% growth rate dipped a bit in the fourth quarter overall not just for us, I'm talking about overall industry. And it's still a pretty small share of total and grocery sales if you will. So the share growth is pretty de minimis. And as we've done -- we've put up -- done research with our CPG partners and a lot of our retail partners.

And I got to say e-commerce kind of comes in fit fix as far as what they see as a lever to drive growth. So we see a lot of opportunity there. We think we've got a lot of headroom in the industry and on an opportunity frankly to hopefully capture share in that space. At the same time I think we have to be realistic to the fact that brick-and-mortar still critical both to the industry and to our business.

Thanks, Joe. Yes, I would say we're on the front edge of a lot of our work relative to high volume talent turnover is improving. I'd say a lot of that is macro market on the labor markets are loosening a little bit. They're still tight tighter on a historic basis, but they're loosening a little bit. And there have been there's been less job growth in kind of the retail and professional services spaces in the last most recent quarters are more kind of broadly in the U.S., which is probably giving us a more availability of labor.

But there's a lot of initiatives we have underway and I mentioned speed the hires are critical and we're looking a lot at doing things around first 90 days. I mean like most businesses, you can imagine in a high-volume talent base. If you can keep someone 90 days, your likelihood of retention is much higher on. So there are a number of initiatives we have against that. So, we're very bullish about the ability to leverage better talent management to drive retention.

And I think the other thing, and you had you didn't ask it but I think it comes up a lot is on the wage side. Obviously, wage inflation still is high relative to historic averages. We do see it on improving a bit. Our overall wage inflation is kind of in line with broader retail from an ROE standpoint. But, there are opportunities for efficiency as far as the processes what we do on in-store. And obviously, if we can reduce our turnover, we bring our recruiting costs down pretty dramatically, which is really important for our business.

Thank you.

We are continuing to see event recovery with some of our three key customers, although we've made a lot of progress and we have some key customers where we're well over 90% which is great. And those are the customers that kind of turn those businesses back on if you will or if you will earlier. So, when different customers chose to kind of reengage on experiential services on varied a little bit? So, I'll be honest, we were very optimistic about this business. It performed very well for us in 2023, and we're optimistic around 2024.

A lot of initiatives, as I mentioned, against the high-volume talent, which affects that area a lot, more talent we can get in and keep the better our execution rate is, and as we progress into some reporting out first quarter of 2024 and forward, we're going to start sharing information. That's not just a look back at how we compare to 2019. We're going to go through and it's been almost five years. So we're getting to a point where we have to look at maybe a little bit other data and others are going to have new segments, it gives a better indication of how those businesses are performing.

Thanks Faiza. I’d say it's primarily in areas that is in the retail merchandising space, not exclusively but primarily. And as you're looking at what we have is a hybrid model of both dedicated teams where they're dedicated to a specific client and then you've got syndicated teams. It's really optimizing on the routing and frankly the hours of those syndicated teams on where we're tracking this down to our utilization detail.

And that's when those exits are determined and they're done, obviously, in conjunction with the clients. It's not something where we pull the rug out from under them. We have detailed conversations and ultimately come to the decision to move on and ensure that we're going focusing and taking care of the clients that we’re retaining.

No worries. Thanks. Bye.

Thank you, operator. We believe there is so much value to unlock here at Advantage. So led by a great team of committed people, which is a competitive advantage for our company. We have a right to win with essential services, talented team mates, deep relationships, significant upside to grow the business and create more value for our stakeholders.

Together we're making swift progress in implementing the right plans to enable this organization to evolve and grow, focusing on simplifying our structure and processes, enhancing our capabilities and strengthening our financial discipline and analytical rigor.

So thank you again for your time today, and look forward to speaking further on our first quarter call in May.