Dave Foulkes
Brunswick Corporation (BC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Hi, Matthew. Yeah. The -- I think the fact is really similar across all of our businesses to some extent and it’s really the fact that, we saw in particularly the December of the fourth quarter reduced demand from marine OEMs and more production shutdowns, which had an impact on our Mercury wholesale orders and Navico Group wholesale orders, as well as of course, we reduced production to meet our year-end targets for boat inventory and get to that 37 fish weeks on hand.
So the fourth -- the first quarter we anticipate continued cautious ordering across wholesale by Mercury’s OEM customers, which is about kind of 80% of their sales and Navico Group’s OEM customer -- marine customers, which is about 30% of their sales, and we obviously will be continuing to be to meet our own boat production during that period.
What we anticipate based on early season retail, confirmed I think by early season retail now, is that orders will begin to pick up to more normalized levels as we enter the main selling season. In Q1, as we get to the end of Q1, we’re seeing new boat retail going to bump about 10% versus last year, which is an encouraging sign. So I would say that the factors really affect all of our divisions somewhat similarly and it is the production and wholesale ordering getting back to more normalized levels for Q2 forward.

Those actions are in flight actions.

If we need to find more, we always find a way.

Yeah. Hi, James. Thank you for the question. Yeah. We did see a lot of commentary about other OEMs noting higher than design inventory levels. We are very comfortable with our inventory levels. I think we explained that we had put a lot of effort into managing inventory in the back half of the year.

We did see some relatively abrupt changes in production patterns in December from some of Mercury’s OEM customers. Our production did not change as abruptly because we began to, I think, be tricked down somewhat earlier. And yeah, honestly, despite the commentary, yeah, we feel extremely good about our inventory levels.
Does it matter what the industry does? Well, it makes it more difficult for us to predict Mercury and Navico Group wholesale sales, because we tend to experience more choppy ordering patterns in the back half of Q4 and we may be the same in the first half of Q1.

But I feel like based on our retail performance in January, which you know is a very small month, but still somewhat encouraging, I don’t think we’re suffering. I think we have the right level of retail incentives, dealer incentives to stimulate demand and I think we have the right inventory levels. So I’m very comfortable where we are.

I think, Mike, just one addition to the previous point is that, the absorption issue really over-indexes towards Q1, because we don’t want to get rid of people, line operators in Q1 that we’re going to need in Q2. So there’s a kind of compounding effect in Q1 that will normalize through the other quarters in the year.
In terms of top and bottom of the range, I think, bottom of the range would have to be further macro weakness than we anticipate. If retail sales hang in at roughly flat to last year, it’s difficult to see the bottom of the range.

But we don’t need a lot of kind of market tailwind to get above the midpoint, really. I think our assumption of wholesale boat units, actually production going down this year in terms of being about 1,000 units below retail is probably a bit on the pessimistic side and then especially with the cost reductions that we will implement in any market scenario that we’ve already described, I think, that will help our leverage on particularly benefit EPS. So I would say downside would have to be additional macro risk of some kind. Upside is a bit better tailwind from the market.

Yeah. Thanks, Craig. Yeah. Coming up on the three-year anniversary. So I think what’s gone well is, I continue to believe that Navico is absolutely the right asset for us to own. There was nothing like it in the marketplace and there still isn’t anything like it in the marketplace.

It plays very strongly to our move really from in a boat company to technology company. It really has some of the best technology assets in the business. And despite the fact that the financial performance is not what we’d originally anticipated at this time, I would say, there are several factors covering that that I’ll talk about in a second.
It is actually doing well, extremely well, in a lot of those sub-segments of electronics. It continues to do well in producing unique solutions that nobody else can produce, like the Fathom system.

We’re beginning to see a flow of new products that reflect our directions, like, the Ultrawide, which is, I mean, extraordinarily well-received and other things that will be coming out late in the year. So I think the asset is the right asset for us. We just bought it ahead of a market downturn.

One of the things I guess is, if you think about Navico’s kind of mix, it’s about 30% marine OEM, 10% or 12% RV and specialty vehicles, and a little bit less than 60% aftermarket. I think what we did not foresee, a couple of things we didn’t foresee really, were the destocking that is experienced over the past several years, what we think is essentially troughed now and also the really severe decline in RV manufacturing that it continues to experience. So those are the things that we have had to combat.
Now, I would tell you that, Navico was about 10% up in March of 2023. We expect that margin to expand in 2024, as the combination of new products takes hold and also as the full year effect of cost reductions take hold. So I would say, positives are strategic benefit and new products coming out. Some of the negatives are more associated with how the market has performed generally, including destocking in the past two or three years.

Yeah. We have not broken that out, but since you asked the question, I think, we can look into whether we do that on a more systematic basis going forward. I can tell you that the Simrad brand has gained market share last year and continues to do extremely well and we imagine that only accelerating as the Ultrawide, which is unique in the marketplace, takes hold.

Obviously, Craig, you’ll be at Miami, and hopefully, you’ll see a whole bunch of Fathom systems appearing and you could call that market share gain if you think about it as the number of OEMs for which we perform fully integrated services. But it’s a good question, and we will think about whether we can establish some KPIs that make it more easy to track.

Yeah. So maybe I’ll start and Ryan could pick up. We did note share gain as, and clearly, part of that share gain is Mercury getting into more OEMs and getting more share of existing OEMs. There are a couple of notables coming across the line. I think you might see a few in Miami already. So we’re continuing to convert.

I think so, if you look at the overall market, obviously, the way the market is behaving is affecting every OEM and that is somewhat reflected in the $1.50 that Ryan included at the start of the bridge. But the additional OEMs that we’re bringing on Board and we do continue to do that, and increased mix in others is reflected in that $0.50 of share opportunity.

Hey, Scott.

Yeah. I think the interest rate reductions from the Fed and also other global central banks, given our presence in Europe particularly, but also in other markets, has two effects. One is directly impacts financing costs and the other is frees up kind of family budgets, discretionary spending more broadly, and maybe a tertiary effect is just consumer confidence. So, there are a number of kind of tailwinds that hopefully when that cycle begins will be introduced.

I would say that, there is a lot of promotional financing around at the moment, including from us. But you will, if you go to the bookshelves or if you look online, you will see many companies offering promotional rates. So, I would say that, a lot of people are not paying, unless that credit rating is not high, they’re probably not paying the nominal rate, which at the moment has dropped about 50 basis points to about kind of 8.5%. I think probably more people are seeing 599, 699 [ph] rates.
One of the things we are seeing though is, we continue to see a lot more cash buyers and even though the promotional interest rates pull people in, a lot of cases, the deal closes with people taking the cash and paying cash. So, I think, the primary effect will be there, but the secondary and tertiary effects of more discretionary income and consumer confidence are at least equally as important.

Thank you.

Thank you. Well, thank you all for joining us again and for the great questions. We really appreciate them. Despite the challenges, we again delivered a very strong year, the second best ever. You need to forget that, but we’re trying to make sure you don’t, which I think continues to demonstrate the resilience of our portfolio.
Free cash flow generation was a particular highlight, I think, in the second half of the year and gives us additional flexibility as we go into 2024. As we noted a couple of times, OEM and dealer customers will likely continue to be cautious in their ordering through a portion of the first quarter.

But we think we’ve equipped ourselves very well for the start of 2024. Pipelines are at appropriate levels. We have a wealth of new products. We have great digital properties. We have a well thought out mix of incentives.

And we’re also, as Ryan mentioned a couple of times, continuing to control costs. I would say that we prefer a year this year of increasing guidance, and so we’re looking, it’s exciting, I think, that we’re off to a good start with retail.

Boat show, we didn’t talk much about, but boat shows sales are maybe single digits down versus last year, but improving as we go through the year. Mix is significantly up into kind of 15% to 20% kind of mix up versus last year, which is very encouraging.

So we could talk about all of those things and introduce you to our new products at our Investor and Analyst event in Miami on Feb 14th and we look forward to seeing you all there. Thank you.


