Dave Graziosi
Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc. (ALSN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Rob. It’s Dave. So a couple of things there. So medium-duty to start with, we certainly had a strong result in 2023, as we mentioned in the prepared remarks. It’s a space that continues to be in what we refer to as catch-up mode. Some fleets are in better shape than others, but I would say overall it continues to be a market that has fairly healthy demand.

We talk about the Class 8 straight truck or vocational, as we refer to. That’s been relatively unsupplied, I think, as you know, a number of constraints based on the public comments by the OEMs. I think that’s relatively consistent with what you’re hearing from them as well.

So I think that’ll be -- was a focal point for many coming into the latter part of 2023 and certainly as 2024 is starting, it’s also typically a seasonally strong portion of the year for vocational anyway. So I think that emphasis is expected to carry through for a good portion of 2024.

To your question on timing, again, I think, that’s largely going to be dependent on the availability for all the components to make the trucks. As we’ve talked about, it takes all of them to deliver a complete vehicle and I think that’s one particular attribute as you think about trying to understand how the year is going to play out, where the supply base is really capable of performing and ultimately delivering.

So everything we’re hearing is, certainly, strong demand, as I said, for Class 8 vocational with the intentions of OEMs to supply that demand. So we stand ready to do that and certainly prepared to support the industry as best we can.

Tami, it’s Dave. Appreciate the question there. So take the regions. North America first, as you know, North America’s Off-Highway is largely an energy market. As we mentioned, I think, certainly, second half last year with the continued capital discipline, which is, we would view as very much regulatory and capital markets considerate by end users and generally I think the energy space. What you are seeing is a continued high level of capital discipline to maximize cash flow and returns. Commodity prices are obviously supportive.

As we talked about, we view the market as relatively well equipped and capacitized, new rig builds, at least on the conventional side, very limited at this point. So you’re seeing some level of refurbs, some new components going into that particular market, but it’s -- from our perspective, very well supplied.

And again, as we talked about second half of last year, with that as a backdrop, not expecting much in terms of increased demand there until there’s a higher level of equipment that’s consumed, frankly, which is still in front of us. But in this medium-term, really look at a largely a refurb, replacement type of market.

Outside North America for us is a combination of energy and mining, construction, hauling, et cetera. That continues to be a relatively busy market. Coming into the second half of last year and certainly fourth quarter, there were some challenges out there in terms of executing against some tenders by the OEMs.

So if you think about that in terms of what’s actually happening in the underlying market, trying to catch up with some level of demand there. So that’s an aspect of 2024 as we start the year. And again, I think the general overall market macro conditions for our Outside North America Off-Highway business can continue to be relatively strong.

So we’ll do our best, again, to supply. I think some of that, though, gets back to ultimately the broader industry’s capability in terms of total component supply meeting demand from a time perspective. So, again, we’ll do our best, but we still see that as a relatively strong market.

Thank you, Camila. Thank you for your continued interest in Allison and for participating on today’s call. Enjoy your evening.