David Spector
PennyMac Financial Services, Inc. (PFSI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Kevin. First of all, SSE has been a great system for us as a servicer. We adopted it at the end of 2019. We were tested very, not tested, but we put it to use with COVID in 2020, and it performed very, very well in terms of being able to meet the needs of our borrowers and offering forbearances and modifications. And it's a system that we believe gives us a tremendous amount of competitive advantage. It's cloud-based, and it's in it with full integration from front end, back end and middleware components.

Customers are able to access our advanced web, mobile and IVR solutions easily with high satisfaction rates. It's got unique workflow attached to it with state-of-the-art technology. And look, I think it gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. And so in and of itself, it's something that I think we continue to see our servicing expenses get driven down since we adopted it, and it's something that has been meaningful to us in our evolution as a top 5 servicer.

As it pertains to unfortunate litigation, look, we're very happy for the lawsuit to be in the rearview mirror. And while I disagree with the final ruling, suffice it to say, they're really clearly had more positive and negative, we were happy to retain ownership of our servicing system. We own SSE free and clear to use and as we see fit.

In terms of other opportunities, it's been 60 days since the really came out and we've been working to get this -- to really get this behind it. I've been very encouraged by opportunities that presented themselves and people approaching us, and we're beginning the exploration and evaluation process. We don't feel any hurry to do something. We want to do something that's best for all stakeholders. But suffice it to say, it's something that is very unique in the industry and gives us a real advantage.

Look, I think that, as you pointed out, the operating ROE was 15% in the fourth quarter, which was up 13% from the third quarter. I'm expecting us to continue to build on the core Q4 results. There's going to be some seasonality in the first quarter, but the servicing has just been unbelievable for us. Profitability continues to remain strong in this high interest rate environment. The consumer is continuing to perform and stay current. We have continuing higher servicing fees and the growth in our own portfolio.

Look, on the production side, we were very profitable in '23. As I said, we were more profitable in '23 than we were in '22 on the production side. And given the trends I'm seeing in margins first and foremost, but then also trends that we're seeing in correspond and broker direct. I'm really encouraged that if we do see rate declines, especially in the back half of the year as the markets are projecting, and we can see our production business grows profitability.

Look, I think that, we have a dominant position in correspondent. We have very deep relationships. And I would start off by saying that the market in January is going to be smaller than even in Dec. And I think that we're seeing good activity in correspondent, specifically with builders.

A lot of our share growth that in the latter part of the year is because of the activity coming out of builders where we have very deep relationships, and that's something that really helped drove a lot of the share growth. As you know, banks have been stepping back and we're just about at the point where I'm going to not being able to say that because they're going to be out.

Sellers are not retaining servicing. And one of the things that we're also witnessing is there's a flight to quality, and we're seeing more and more sellers delivering a disproportionate amount of their loans to us. Interestingly enough in correspondent, we saw a decrease in the number of sellers. It's down to $812 million from $830 million. And so we're seeing a little bit of consolidation taking place.

But we -- I think that our value proposition is pretty tried and true. We're in the market every day. We get value for that. I think when others are in and then they're out and they're in and then they're out, that creates some consternation with sellers. And so this is why I continue -- we saw some really good margin growth in correspondent. We were at 21 basis points in the fourth quarter of ‘22. We were at 34 basis points in the fourth quarter of '23.

And it's a combination of increasing pricing power, but also we're able to find executions away from the GSEs that provided some additional margin. But I think that -- I like the correspondent is so core to our franchise and it's something that I continue to expect it to be.

But yes, I mean people raise more capital to get more aggressive. And on the margin, you may have someone sell loans to them because they have a little better bid. But we're the industry leader for a reason and will continue to be there.

Sure. So we're pretty pleased with our hedging performance in the fourth quarter. As you know, interest rates were all over the map in the fourth quarter. We were up -- the 10-year was up as high or a little bit over 5% and down below 4%. So really a pretty significant pretty significant swing in terms of the direction, the direction that or that interest rates and mortgage rates went through the quarter.

We were able to cover 80% of the move and that included the costs that we have to hedge, which ate up a little bit as well. We have been in this in this environment, targeting a tighter hedge ratio than we have historically. But overall, given, like you said, the volatility of interest rates, we're pretty pleased with the performance.

To your point, as we move -- as interest rates or if interest rates move down further, we have -- the asset has increasing sensitivity. Part of that is also because we've been adding a fair amount of loans at those higher interest rates that's been part of our strategy so that those loans that we have a greater portfolio of loans that could move into refinanceable territory if and when interest rates do decline.

And so the sensitivity of the servicing asset has increased a bit as we've moved lower in interest rates and we continue to hedge that. But what we've also seen consistent with our strategy is an uptick in refinances here in the first quarter. You can see that in terms of some of our January locks in the -- in our consumer direct channel.

For example, where up pretty meaningfully from the run rate that we had in Q4. And we've just taken another sort of leg lower here in interest rates. So really, again, gets back to the balanced business model and how, to the extent that we see potential slightly faster prepayment speeds on the servicing side with our hedge and with the refinanceability of the port that serves to offset that.

Look, I think -- but from our perspective, these are all the questions we're asking ourselves as we come out of the litigation. I think that there is demand in the marketplace for more competition. It's not good or healthy for the industry to have reliance on any one person. And given the market share of the leader out there, there are many in the industry who share my point of view.

I think from our perspective, we have to answer that question from an economic value. We best served by continuing to maintain the competitive advantage that we're seeing in our servicing platform and in terms of driving down costs and increasing productivity versus what we can get by other means. But as I said earlier, this is very early on in the whole process, and this is something that we're going to we're working already on it, and this is something that we're just going to continue to work on. And as we always do, we're going to get to the right place.

Yes. I don't think it's really any impact on margins. It's really sellers who weren't selling us a lot of a lot of loans, and we weren't active in the marketplace. I think margins are -- margins have been pretty stable over the past couple of quarters. And even in January with volumes down, we're seeing margins stable, albeit they're up very nicely from where they were a year ago.

Look, I think that, of course, we always like higher margins, and we're I always remind you people to get more margin. But I think that Doug and Abby and the team do just a phenomenal job continuing to support the operation in terms of the value proposition that they provide to our correspondent sellers.

And look, we're on where loan prices are today, sellers can't really can't afford to keep servicing. And so a lot of the alternative execution over the years has been to the GSE's cash window where they would either retain the servicing for a lengthy period of time or ultimately sell it. And so I think we're getting more loans coming in through the whole loan channel.

And as I said, there's just a natural flight to quality when you see a marketplace where there's -- where you have people going in and out and you got people getting out of the business. And we've been at this every day since we got into it almost 15 years ago. And it's something that gives us a halo effect in correspondent and it allows us to maintain both margin and share.

Look, as rates decline, we do see more customer lean in on closed-in seconds, primarily on the servicing that we added in 2023. And that's -- excuse me, pre 2023 for closed-end seconds.

On cash outs, I think, look, I think that as rates decline, you'll see more borrowers lead in to cash outs versus close in seconds. And as rates stay higher, they're going to be we needed to closed-end seconds. It's for us, it's the appropriate product mix that we have as it gives borrowers the opportunity to take cash out of their property typically to pay down lower cost debt.

But we're in a position right now where the rallies in the marketplace still have not as meaningful effect as the majority of the mortgage market is, as you know, in kind of 3% and 4% mortgages. So I think that you will see an increased amount of rates. You'll see an increased amount of refi as rates do decline.

But look, the closed end second product for us has been great for consumer direct in terms of maintaining capacity in place. We've launched it to our nonport customers, which allows us to do profitable growth in seconds and maintain capacity in place for when we do see a significant decline in rates in consumer direct. We've also introduced it in broker direct.

And I think that that's something that I'm encouraged. And look, the brokers have the need to maintain capacity just like we do in consumer direct, and it's a product that best serves their customers. It also adds to the broker direct value proposition that we have. And I'd be remiss if I did bring up that look, we're continuing to gain share broker direct.

And I think we're starting to see more and more brokers seeing PennyMac as a strong alternative to the top two participants. And in addition, we've invested a lot in technology to support the brokers. And so I think that we like what we're seeing in broker direct and margins are maintaining their levels. And so as closed end second versus cash out refi versus rate in term refi we've got to cover it in our production divisions, and we're going to participate no matter what the rate environment is.

Thank you. I want to thank everyone for joining us this afternoon. We went over a lot of good information, and we had what I thought was a really outstanding quarter. I want to thank everyone for the thoughtful questions. If anyone has any additional questions, feel free to reach out to our Investor Relations team by e-mail or phone. And again, thank you all for joining the call.
