David Dauch
American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings, Inc. (AXL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, James.

So James, this is David. Let me take a crack and Chris can add to it. First of all, there's a delay in EV program, so that's good for our business. We can generate strong margins. And in that area, strong cash flow, continue to fund our electrification growth going forward. At the same time, continue to pay down debt, and work on tactical acquisitions where it makes sense. So we see that as a positive for us. At the same time, we're going to continue to develop the portfolio that we need for electrification. As Chris has already highlighted and I highlighted in my comments, we continue to win new electrification awards. But to your point, many of the customers are rescoping their program, their content per program and the volumes that go with that. And so our backlog, as we said earlier, is growing year-over-year. We're quoting $1.5 billion of new and incremental business, of which greater than 75% of that is electrification based. But most of what we're working on is the latter part of the decade. So I think you're going to see as the OEMs sort out their plans over the next, let's say, 12 to 24 months because I think it may take that long. Because ultimately, the market is the boss and they've got to put their portfolio in place to be able to support what the consumer demand is. So we'll adjust accordingly, but any delay in EV is only going to ask for more ICE to get inventories where they need to be which, like I said earlier, is a positive thing for AAM. So, Chris, I don't know if there's anything you want to add or not.

James, for us, the product components and subassemblies that we manufacture between ICE and hybridization are very similar to one another. So we can get to the market very quickly without a lot of change. It's really what the OEMs, how they want to identify the type of hybridization that they want to put into their vehicles. But again, that could be a positive for our company.

No, that's all in our core business. And the only thing we have the backlog, John, is do an incremental business. We consider that to be a replacement business, which IS part of our core financials.

It's no different. I mean we're generating strong margins on our ICE business today. But because we got size and scale, the EV business doesn't have the size and scale to date. So you can actually expect those margins will be lower. But as that size and scale grows over time, you can expect that we'll stay focused on delivering on our financial hurdles.

Yes. Winnie, this is David. Labor is going to continue to be the problem for the industry going forward here. It's not just an American Axle issue. It's an industry and just an overall economic issue. There's a scarcity and labor that's out there today. Clearly, we're doing our necessary things in order to secure our labor going forward. We're making adjustments in base ways and fully loaded labor cost. We're bringing, I think, incremental workers in where we need to, even temps if we have to. We're investing heavily in automation and robotics right now to address any shortfalls that we might have on the labor side. And we're obviously driving productivity and efficiency to try to free up labor in our existing plants that can be reallocated to other facilities or other work within those facilities. And we're also looking at flat consolidation opportunities as well as a free up labor so we can transfer it to other locations. So it's demanding a lot of time and a lot of attention. It's not an issue that's going away. At the same time, with that labor, you're also seeing an increase in costs associated with employing that labor that's going to be sticky and be here that we're going to have to find a way to offset as we go forward or pass through.

Joe, as I was saying earlier, we still have about $1.5 billion of new and incremental quoting opportunity today, heavily weighted towards electrification. But as the customers are sorting out that LRPP, it may adjust the timing of some of what we're porting out as far as the launch cadence of that. But also, as I mentioned, it may be -- those launches will most likely be later in the decade versus mid-decade. That's really what we see right now, yes.

Joe, I think it just goes back to one of the OEMs going to do with their long-range product plans. But as Chris indicated, they've already made some decisions to cancel certain programs or stop manufacturing programs. We're going to feel that spike or that impact periodically. But historically, we're going to be in that $100 million to $150 million in normal attrition. And then when you get into some of the higher years, you give me $200 million, $200 million plus, right? But it's been pretty consistent in that $100 million to $200 million range, and we've been able to offset that. Obviously, with this air pocket that I'm talking about hopefully, some of the extensions of these programs that we're starting to see will cover up some of the attrition that's there. But the big thing for us is to make sure that we can demonstrate incremental and profitable growth going forward. And most of that, that we're working on right now is electrification base, which is going to be the latter part of the decade. So that's that air pocket that we talked about between now and then, but it can be filled with incremental volume as the production ramps up and the desire ramps up and inventory gets to desired levels.

Well, clearly, anytime you have a program adjustment, whether it's ICE or hybrid or EV and investments are being made and volumes aren't being realized or programs are being delayed. There's commercial discussions that need to take place -- those are taking place with all the OEMs or all the suppliers that have made investments to support the OEMs, especially as they're adjusting some of those timings AAM is not excluded from those discussions. So we're in discussion with our different OEMs, just trying to better understand our long range product plans, understand the timing and the rescoping of the programs and then understanding the impact that it may have on the business cases and the plans that we put together, obviously, where we can redeploy assets if need be or reallocate those assets to other business, we'll do that between ICE, hybrid and an EV. But at the same time, with there's some investment in regards to some of the R&D activity that's taking place, we'll need to make sure we're recovering appropriately. So that's what I'd say, I guess.

Well, we've said all along that we want to be a consolidator, and we actually started that activity back in 2017 with the acquisition of MPG. We've also done some other tactical acquisitions since that time, the latest one being the Tekfor acquisition that we did last year. We'll continue to look at, what I'll call, tactical M&A right now that we can operate within our current capital structure. But if there's other opportunities that make business sense for us that ultimately strengthened the company going forward and position us as an organization going forward. We'll look at those opportunities as well, and we got a fiduciary responsibility to do those types of things. So we'll definitely keep M&A on our radar screen.

Well, the good news is we're growing our China business, especially on the electrification and the PHEV side of the business. They're becoming global OEMs. They're clearly on the offensive that where before they were looking at just satisfying their demand within country of China, but they're obviously attacking our position themselves in Europe very aggressively right now in Mexico. And there's no doubt, it's just a matter of time before they come strong to the US. But obviously, I think a lot of countries are going to have to look at what mechanisms that they need to put into place to protect some of their businesses, meaning the automotive businesses whether that's tariffs or other types of things to level the playing field. But ultimately, it means game on. And the low-cost producer that can produce the quality product that the consumer desires is going to win in the long run. So it's just going to elevate the game of every one of the OEMs and technology will be a differentiator as we go forward. But the Chinese have vertically integrated the BEV side of the business. But I also think it's important to point out a couple of things is I don't think BEVs are going to make up 100% of the volume on a global basis anytime soon. So ICE and hybrid and even hydrogen, all play a meaningful role going forward. I also think in Europe, the luxury cars are pretty well dominated by the Europeans. So that's a tough market to crack because of the performance that goes with that. And that same thing holds true here in North America from a truck and SUV and crossover standpoint, but especially truck and SUV, there's very loyal buyers in those areas. So they're new entrants, a growing entrant, and they're going to gain market share. But at the same time, it's an opportunity for companies like us and other suppliers.

Thanks, Tom.