David Lougee
TEGNA Inc. (TGNA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So I think -- as you know, we don't guide on new net retrans. But I was -- what I would say is, when Julie says about the reverse comp side, negligible, growth being negligible, I would even add to that negligible at best.

So we now have a rightsizing of the relationship to that size of the model. So what I would say about net retrans is that it will be stable, right, on a go-forward basis, and this helps stabilize that for us as a company.

So again, we don't guide to it, but simply put, internally, one of our huge foundations relative to the cash flow guide we put out and the durability and sustainability of our model is that net retrans, and we'll have more chances to reprice that obviously at the end of this year, but we don't -- that number is what out any subs being up until the -- toward the back half of this year.

And I'll let Julie take it on core.

And Dan, I'll just add to that, as Julie has spoken about over time, really, since COVID, services has just continued, I mean, it's clearly an economic phenomenon, engine across the company -- the country, the entrepreneurship and the creation of sustainable small but really good, healthy midsized business in the services, we have done a great job finding those businesses and being a marketing arm for them, and it's turned into just an extraordinarily large category for us now, and that is just very, very durable and growing.

Steven, yes. So I appreciate. We never talk about individual negotiations with networks. All I would say is we had more than 1 agreement up last year. You've never heard us say before that the majority is -- we've said we've had a mix. But you've never heard me say before that we have a majority of our subs tied to a variable model, so I'll just leave it at that.

Well, on total revenue, on the advertising side, it's a little hard for us to know what the blackout cost us as it always is during those blackouts. It has some impact. So there's a little bit of noise in that. And I'll let Julie speak to retrans.

Cycling against better comps, yes?

But I would say -- I'll just add to that, Craig. I think I'd add before is our underlying trends are pretty good. We've got noise in the system on the national, local side that we talked about a little bit, and with Premion, but -- and we obviously had -- we had an outage for 45 days with a major distributor that doesn't help. But the underlying trends appear to be pretty favorable on advertising, really large for us.

That's a good guide.

James, this is Dave again. I'll take both of those. Yes. So Octillion is exactly the type of bolt-on -- when we talk about bolt-on M&A, exactly that, right, something that doesn't flex the balance sheet really at all. And with that, we can help drive our businesses, either existing ones or the ones that we build organically like Premion to the future. So that's the right spot on, relative to the bolt-on acquisition topic.

From a regulatory standpoint, we'll see, Jim, obviously, historically, Republican administrations are typically more deregulation than Democratic once. And clearly, this particular Democratic administration, this particularly Democratic FCC, has been obviously quite rigid on keeping rules or even rolling back rules on where they were, and I'll leave it at that. But yes, I think the change in administration is potentially an opportunity.

Also the question would be, even if there was the same administration, whether there might be a change in leadership, too. So it remains to be seen. We're watching closely. But to your earlier conversations, at the moment, I don't think we'll never say never, but given where we are at the cap, I wouldn't say our focus is on station M&A.

Yes, I'll take the second one first, Dave. Look, I'll just simply -- I don't want to talk about any distribution deals, but I'll just academically -- I'll put it this way. Obviously, local sports is amongst the most valuable content to consumers. And so if you just take that upstream relative to distributors, it's very valuable to distributors as well.

There might have been a loss of -- a gap in value between what distributors had been paying under the old model. And so I think there's -- this change in ecosystem relates to some kind of more rationalization of that from the distributor standpoint. So -- but I'll just simply answer the question and say it, it certainly has value to distributors. Now might -- some out there wish that they could be going off those fees and never pay anymore, certainly so. But they absolutely has value to distributors and we do know that.

Political advertising, too. right. Because as you know, it's given we -- unlike some of our peers that might have 100-plus stations in a lot of small markets, we're more concentrated in large. So our delta, as you've seen in previous election cycles, we flexed up, 55 million come out of nowhere for 2 center runoffs in Georgia 4 years ago, and we've seen it go the other direction when a very hot center race goes cold, when a candidate blows themselves up, so we can have sometimes a significant range of what political might be.

Thank you, operator, and thank you, everyone, for the call this morning.

As we said with our announcement this morning, we are now producing it for the first time, a 2-year free cash flow guide that we -- is driven by our very sustainable and durable business model. We look forward to talking to you more in the quarters ahead as we talk about results in the year going forward, and appreciate your interest. Thank you, and everyone, have a good day.