David Jackson
KNX CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Okay. Well, Mike, as we noted, we saw things trade down in December. What little project activity, and I would say little, we anticipated modest. And I would say that we saw modest in November, probably saw less than modest in December. That traded down leading to a month that didn't produce the kind of earnings we would have expected or that we were on pace for through the first two months of the quarter.
As we look into January thus far, the last two weeks have been pretty severely impacted by weather, certainly you see that we have LTL terminals that have been shuttered particularly given our concentration through the Southeast. Certainly, it's had an impact on our productivity on the truckload side. And so, I probably -- I'm not going to quantify what that means exactly what 2 weeks' worth of weather effects on a quarter's EPS. But certainly, it has tempered what we thought we would typically earn into January.

Now hopefully, we'll see a little bit of a recovery as a result of things being down, but certainly not enough to make up what was lost. So, there's a factor in there, probably those weeks you would see an impact to our business that would be a negative double digit in terms of revenue production for each of those fleets.

Yes. Well, Jack, it's a good question. It's a valid question. I will acknowledge we are still very early in the bid season. We are grateful for customers who have recognized the fact that rate concessions we've given have come directly out of margin because there hasn't been any cost reprieve for us through this time frame, where we're able to pass on efficiencies, if you will. So it's simply come out of margin.

And if you look at the industry, the publicly traded truckload carriers, it's a common theme for all of us. And so customers who recognize that recognize where we are in the cycle, have worked with us, not to the degree where we get an increase that helps us get back to where we want to be, but also shows a sign of trying to provide some consistency in the network and allowing us to move forward.

Now there are some situations where I think we do have some customers who perhaps operating under a mandate, maybe a little bit of a more short-term focus might be a little more aggressive in pushing. The reality is there is a limit to what you can do. And I think if you look at certainly our truckload model and others, we compete with based on their public reports, we've hit that limit. It feels like this go around the freight market has worked in an extraordinarily efficient way where we've discovered the bottom. And that happened some time ago, around the middle of last year, it appears. And that's where we are.

You've seen small carrier rates. They've hit a bottom. And so it doesn't take a lot of creativity to understand where this can go from here. A theme, I would tell you that we -- a consistent theme that we have seen through this process from many, if not -- most customers has been a very definite preference towards moving their commitments to an asset-based provider as opposed to a non-asset-based broker.

I don't believe we've ever seen extreme commitments to the extremely high level of contractual commitments from brokers. And so they sit here today with this super high committed percentage of their business at incredibly low loads or low rates, which really you could say are unsustainable, as we see small carrier capacity leaving, as we see the bottom of spot rates not keep dropping. And as we see margins evaporate in the truckload space. And so we're at a level that's not sustainable. And so we have non-asset broker capacity that is committed at these very, very low rates and certainly seems to be setting up for a squeeze there. And so some of our customers, I think, are able to read the writing on that wall.

What none of us know is exactly when that's going to happen. Every day that goes by, we're a day closer to an inflection. And we've written out the longest trough that certainly that I've seen in to almost 24 years of being here. And so that's a little bit of the lay of the land, Jack. I'm not sure if I adequately answered your question. Do you have a follow-up to that?

These are negotiations, and I could appreciate at our customer on the other side, they're trying to do the best they can for their interest. And I will tell you, we -- there is a place, the Clint Eastwood line, a man's got to know his limitations there is a place where we simply cannot concede anymore. And we often get to these in cycles. But we've never been pushed this far from how high the OR gets here. But we are definitely in that place to where the alternative to accepting rate decreases is we have less commitments. We're more exposed to the spot and we have to rely on our diversified model.

And so the way I would answer your question, Jack, is I would say there are some customers that I believe through this process will lead us to have a little more exposure to the spot because of perhaps a short-term objective that they have. Now that seems to be the minority so far. But again, it's only January. We're early on in the process. We hope that doesn't happen because that only leads to disruption for us and for them. And we think it costs more in the end. I think we could demonstrate that with data. So we hope that's not the case, but we are not in a position to lower our rates through bids right now.

Yes. I think, Ravi, we have to be careful that just because some of the data is a little bit more accessible and easier to get access to in kind of almost a real time. I think we just have to be a little careful to not paint with too broader stroke on some of those smaller data points. I do think that that maybe I'll share an anecdotal that we've heard our team and our logistics group has heard this multiple times from small carriers, which is -- we're going to see what the next 4 to 6 weeks looks like and decide what we do with our business from there.

And so I do think you have some small carriers that are just basically saying, "Hey, I just can't -- I can't run to stand still. I can't just keep moving and getting loads, long haul loads in particular at unsustainably low rates just to keep moving and hopes that something else will happen. And so I think you're starting to see people that are just saying, hey, if it doesn't pay, I'm not going to do it.

And so the market is stressed. I think a data point that's been interesting to watch has been the net revocations of authority on the last business day of the month. We've seen spikes at the last business day of November. We saw it happen again in December. December was smaller than November. However, not very many would renew their insurance on the last business day of the calendar year. And so I suspect at the end of January, we could see that spike again. We think that spike is tied to carriers who are not able to find insurance.

It isn't just increasing insurance premiums. That's been an issue, but there have been people willing to finance that, of course, pretty expensive rates on top of that, which further burden the business but allow you to live for another day. The challenge is if somebody is not willing to underwrite the risk and painfully, we're aware of what that risk is with very small carriers. And we completely understand why that market is shrinking and why there are small carriers that we believe will struggle to find anybody willing to take that risk. We think we're seeing the signs of that and that data point in particular.

So the market is particularly stressed. So -- and as for why you might see 1 little data point to tell you something different a month like December versus maybe what we might feel over a broader period of time, I'd just say not all data is created equal.

Nathan, thanks for the question. Maybe I'll start off and Adam, you can certainly chime in. And first, I used this as an opportunity to just acknowledge the wonderful people we have at US Xpress couldn't -- I can't say enough good things for how they have gone to work and work together with us the degree to which they've been open to collaborate. We're just -- we're excited for them. I think that they're excited to be part of the group. And maybe to answer your question about structure and how that changes. This is a brand, an independent brand that we support.

And so we have 2 leaders that have moved to Chattanooga. They did this several months ago in anticipation of the transaction. And so they are there. They are tax paying residents of Chattanooga and have assimilated with the team. And so that business will continue to perform independently. I'd say that thus far in these first 6 months, the progress has probably been two-third cost, one-third rate. That likely flips here as we go into the next 2 quarters where rate continues to grow as cost doesn't grow at the same kind of pace, but there still are cost opportunities.

As was mentioned, that Adam mentioned with the slide that we highlighted a few key things. One of those was doing directly with our customers, not going through a broker, intermediary. And so the sales group, the operations group have worked very hard to -- when they had an abrupt change and needed to deal direct. And so that's been a positive to the rate per mile. If we look at -- just overall, the approach in the network and their approach to bids, we've been able to bring a different mindset in terms of how they can go about building the network, and they've been very receptive to that. And so now we're receiving a steady diet, I would say, kind of across our business of about 110 bids a week is the going rate.

Some of those can be mini-bids, some of those are much larger network bids. And so that's feeding into this decentralized operation that US Xpress is well on their way towards that we think will lead to lower driver turnover, better operating cost with a high level of service and good returns, good revenue generated on our trucks with ORs that over time, we believe, will be in that low 80 range, similar to what we would expect over time in our Swift and Knight brands. Adam, anything else?

Well, let me -- maybe I'll talk for a moment here on what some of the cadence of what these looks like. And then maybe, Adam, if you want to chime in on tempering OR as we do this. But we will acknowledge first off, Bruce, that since 2021, we've opened 14 locations. While we've seen that OR, consistently on an annual basis, improve as we've settled into that mid-80s. So, we like that along the way about this time last year that we were integrating the MME network and the AAA Cooper network. And so those are operating on 1 network.

So from a technology optimization standpoint, we're just 1 LTL company. But from a uniform and relationship in the local markets, we appear, and we work with 2 different brands, MME in one region of the country and AAA Cooper in another. And so we anticipate that as we have opportunities to enter new markets through organic and also through acquisitions that, that will continue in -- for the most part, with acquisitions.

Now as for organic, we mentioned we have 25 in the pipeline. 5 of those locations just opened up this week, so there's 20 more that we'll cycle through the remainder of the year. Probably about half of those we expect to be open in the first half of the year and then the remainder in the back half. First 60 days, we're really trying to get -- build up enough volume to breakeven. And that's largely done by opening up those new service ZIP codes to 3PLs. And then over the course of the year, you get a chance to build out that business through the nationwide bids. There's also some local business we'll often pick-up in addition to things that comes through the 3PLs.

There are still some additional locations through the yellow bankruptcy that we're pursuing. And so we think -- we expect that the 25 number will grow. And those will likely be on the lease side. Those are in the process of being settled as we speak. So this is very measured growth, I would say. I'll give you an example. The 5 locations we just opened are in the bustling cities of West Burlington, Iowa for Cherry Ville, Kansas or Rock Island, Illinois or Forest City, Arkansas or Wichita Falls, Texas. So these are smaller markets. These are not huge facilities. We've been able to procure these at attractive rates on a per door basis. And so this is -- I would say that it's a very conservative growth plan. But nonetheless, there will be some pressure to award in those locations. Adam, any thoughts on...

I appreciate the question, Jordan. We realistically, we would anticipate over the next 2 years being able to consider ourselves as having nationwide coverage that was in-house. So of course, today, with interline partners, we do -- we can service the whole nation, but there's -- we'll get access to nationwide network bids when we can do that all in-house together in a system. And so we expect for that map to look less super regional and more nationwide over the next 2 years.

A lot of these locations that we just referred to that are the 25 call it, that we have in the pipeline plus perhaps we may add another 10, let's say, lease type facilities on top of that. Those are largely gap fillers, if you will. Those fill in space is part of a very intentional effort so that we can acquire some chunks, as you will. I think you referred to it in other regions that we don't currently service.

So we are -- this is a multiyear plan, but it's not as far out as you might think. So we're well on our way. I would say that the yellow terminals, I would say, we purchased LTL terminals from two other businesses that no longer use them or also went through a bankruptcy or liquidation process, those have been wonderful gifts for us. I mean what it would have cost us to go acquire the land and build these, we would have had a much more significant capital investment. And so we're grateful that these have come. We've taken a very conservative approach here. But we're on our way. Over -- hopefully, by the end of 2025, we're able to show you a map that makes it very clear we're a nationwide LTL network.

Well, James, it's impossible to predict exactly how it's going to go. If we look at previous cycles, you get -- you have several challenges that sometimes there's a little catalyst, whether it could be a spike in fuel prices back in the day. I think we've seen even a weather event before that had a big impact there, or a material change in demand. We're not seeing a big material change coming in demand. The fact that inventories have been drawn down so much. Hopefully, a day is coming where there's a little bit more mindset for growth. It feels a little bit like retailers have a more conservative view and are focused on profits as opposed to top line. And we would benefit a little bit more in a top line-focused environment.

But I think that the -- in this business, a capital-intensive business, if you take time off investing in the capital or investing the capital that's required, it starts to really catch up with you. And the cost of new equipment continues to be inflationary. The values for used equipment have dropped after being at record high prices, which is in many cases when people acquire their equipment. And so there's a limited useful life to the assets that they have. And so you can get by for a while, but eventually things start to accumulate.

It appears that insurance could serve as a bit of a catalyst that finally is that final straw for people. But one thing that we have seen in previous cycles is this seems to snowball avalanche might be too strong, but we're as these things all accumulate, eventually, you hit a tipping point and once capacity starts to come out, it's just the beginning. And as capacity starts to come out, financing dries up, nobody wants to take the risk operating environment gets difficult, small carriers perhaps cut corners. Next thing you know, they become too risky to insure. And so there's just kind of a chain of events that start to happen.

So it's hard to guess exactly when that's going to be or how far we are down that path. Our view here is going to be a very difficult first quarter for small carriers, which is -- we're well on our way to the probably two-year anniversary where it's hard to think that a small carrier would have profit really over a nearly two-year span. And so that's -- that's probably the best I could say for that. And so we just watch for these indicators that give us a sense for all of the different factors that are accumulating, and then we see if there's this kind of avalanche effect.

Yes, we're not getting a read on broader economic demand that says that, that could be a catalyst. So we think this will be supply driven. As we feel that that most, if not all, trucking cycles have really come on the undersupply side. Maybe 04 05 06, those were some banner economic years that maybe that was the exception to that. But outside of 04 05 06, sure feels like every other cycle has been supply induced. Every other recovery, I should say, has been due to a pretty meaningful reduction in supply. This one, our economic outlook on the freight side is that, yes, the inflection has to come from supply. There's not enough not enough to make us think that the demand is going to be enough lift on its own.

Good. Doing well.

Yes. Well, Jason, I appreciate the question. And I would say that if we really felt if we felt like we had a really good read to speak on the second half, we would have done that through our guidance. So for now, we're just going to stop with what we've given for the first 2 quarters in terms of guidance. Now clearly, what you see is you see a range in the second quarter that's better than the first quarter. And so it would be safe to assume that we don't see we're not expecting a big drop off.

We think the worst is behind us, but that's as far as I think we would feel comfortable to talk about that right now. As for what percentage of our business might turn over, I think with technology, it's rather easy for many of our customers to do what we call mini bids, which is in essence, they fire off an electronic request for us to bid on a handful of lanes. And so we are bidding on freight every single week of the year.

Now the majority of the network bids, if you will, is a, call it, mid to late November through call it, April with these awards largely materializing before the end of the second quarter. It used to be like everybody fit in a pretty tight window there. And today, again, I think technology is a factor in that. It's not such an undertaking for them. It's kind of spread out. So I hope that helps. I hope that gives you a bit of a sense. So the majority of our incumbent business will be repriced over the first six months of the year.

It depends on who feels like they have leverage in the market. And usually, they're agreed to for a certain amount of time. I will tell you that there are some shippers that are pulling forward bids that they normally would do later in the year, and they're pulling them from, call it, June to February. You can guess maybe what their motivation might be to do or might drive that. And it sure seems like our customers expect that rates are going to be up in the second half of the year. That's what the behavior is showing us. So it sometimes can that sometimes can change, Jason, is what I'm saying.

How much would have maybe been tied to maybe a receivable or insurance or a software versus the claims? Is that what you...

Yes, I don't have that right on me. It's a little bit skewed because it's a little apples to oranges when you look at some of what went into the $71 million versus expenses or losses that we had in the other 3 quarters. But…

And that's going to include some extra thing, extra cost to prepare us here as we exit the business.