David Rockecharlie
Crescent Energy Company (CRGY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Hey Neal, it's David. We'll say a couple of things. And as you can tell the theme is enhancing and simplifying right now and to keep it simple, we think we've got a great team and we think they're doing their job. So, we kind of wake up every day just saying how can we be better? How can we do our job? In this case in particular, we've been able to take over assets, apply our techniques to them. And that's starting to show through. Now that we've integrated things, so we're seeing on the immediate kind of returns on what I'll call doing our job in on the drilling completion side. And that's just really getting more efficient as we get into what I'll call the regular rhythm in our program, but also just doing things better. When we see the industry moving forward, we're trying to do the best we can, come in first place all the time. So, on the drilling side we're drilling wells faster, on the completion side, we're pumping jobs quicker and more effectively and sites. It's a combination of all those things.

But in simple terms, we're just bringing what I'll call the latest and technology to assets that have not been optimized. And we're seeing that both on the drilling and completion side. And I think you'll continue to see us as we move through the year and into next year, also apply better techniques to the production side of things on the assets we've acquired. We're really pleased with what I'll call the last three or four years of acquisition activity and everything has been integrated well. And what you're seeing is now we'll get to go to work on making everything better. So, maybe too long an answer for you, but hopefully gives you some sense of the optimism we have -- we're continuing to do.

Yes, we -- it's a fundamental premise of how we invest in this sector. So, I think you can expect us to continue to stay committed to managing a portfolio of assets and have that as a differentiating our perspective. We're not going to go chase what I would call production growth through the cycle with the drillbit. We think keeping the business steady and generating great returns when we can that's the way to go. And that's just going to continue to keep us in a great place in terms of lower decline rate, more predictable development programs and a lower decline rate which is frankly just better for everybody.

Hey John. It's David. I appreciate the question. I'd say a couple of things to that. One, as you know, the number one thing that we are proud of in terms of the business strategy is that, it's stayed the same and we're going to continue doing what we said we were going to do. We feel like the business model that we've been pursuing for the last 10 plus years as a management team is still the right place to go. And as you know, the sector has kind of chase different strategies throughout that time period.

So, when I look at our current situation at the Company, we definitely want to simplify things, appreciate that you're recognizing that we're trying to do that every quarter. And with regard to your specific question around the Series one preferred, I'd just say two things. The Board of Directors today at Crescent has representatives related to 40% of the stockholding. And so we think there's really strong alignment there. And we really like waking up every day, knowing that we've got support from the shareholders and from the Board to continue to pursue the same strategy. So, we view it as a positive, not a negative. And I think over time, as the sector continues to chase different strategic alternatives, I think Crescent being committed to it successful and stable strategy is going to be a great thing. So, that's how I'd answer that question.

Hey great question. Obviously, we've had a lot of dialogue around this. The number one thing I would I would say and kind of reiterate about the way you asked your question and we're definitely not changing anything in terms of strategic approach which is take care of the balance sheet and deliver a dividend, so that we're taking care of the investors first.

We do -- we've sort of lifted at both the private and public company and had that same strategy and approach consistently for over a decade now. And make sure we just think that this is enhancing and simplifying. And so anything we can do to make things simpler make the business more predictable and more credible, we think is good.

And so again we were not in a hurry to change anything do we were -- were and still are a leader in return of capital in the sector. But when you look at the balance sheet and the dividend policy. So, we think this is just more of the same, but more predictable and more value really to the business.

Yes, I think that's right. I think it's the same though in terms of predictability for the balance sheet as well. I know we would get questions around on it is it is 10% of target. And how do you think about 10% what percentage. And so I think just telling everybody hey we're committed to it. No change to the commitment on priorities 1a 1b, balance sheet dividend and just making sure everybody knows we've been paying $0.12 for the last year and we feel very comfortable continuing to pay, pay that $0.12 this quarter obviously and defining that as our framework going forward.

But other than that no change side. So, I think the main takeaway should be and this team has been doing the same thing as it relates to return of capital and taking care of the investors, both through the balance sheet and dividend and we'll continue to do so.

Great.

Yeah. Hey, it's David. And I'll just cover this at a high level. It's a tremendous resource across the basin. And I think we're as an industry starting to see better and better performance from a level that was already good. So as we mentioned just in our opening remarks, we're excited about how we were able to enter that basin and the value that we think we have developed there. We were targeting a proven area that has had significant horizontal development both on our position and across others and that's only gotten larger.

So I'd say a couple of things in specific response to your question and we see activity continuing to accelerate as the resource expands. So the way we think about it, is there's more production and longer reserve life in that basin than there's ever been. And it looks like that's going to continue. At the same time, as you know we are a business that's focused on really growth through acquisition and maintenance of the business with the drillbit and really mindful of capital allocation and uses of cash flow.

So what I would say is, we see very significant opportunity there. We think others growth will outpace ours because of a different business philosophy and strategy. But as Clay mentioned, we're going to get to see a lot of development around us and then also participate in it. And I think that's going to be great for us. So I don't think we're going to see a step change from here, but I think continued investment in growth in that basin with us pursuing a strategy similar to the one we've pursued across the business for the last 10 years. And likely not leaning into growth as much as others might, but benefiting from the same resource potential. And really just given us a more predictable longer reserve life asset.

Great. Thank you all again, for joining us today and for supporting the company. As we said quite simply, we think 2023 was outstanding performance. We're proud of. We're very optimistic about what's ahead in 2024 and beyond. And in our opinion Crescent has never been better positioned than it is today to deliver on the value proposition we have. So we look forward to staying in touch and talking to you again next quarter. So thank you.