David Yowan
Navient Corporation. (NAVI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Mark, thanks for the question. First, let me clarify the scenario that we're using when we refer to the $400 million of expenses. So the scenario assumes that we have completed our outsourcing transaction, the one that we announced this morning. We have divested BPS in its entirety, and we have taken the steps to reduce our shared service footprint and our corporate footprint to reflect those two transactions. So that's the scenario that underlies it. When you think about the financials of that, you might start with BPS and look at our 2023 actuals to calibrate this. During 2023, we had roughly $325 million worth of revenue in BPS, and we had $280 million worth of expenses. So either of those would be present under this scenario. Our servicing expenses would no longer be present. The first-party servicing expenses that we incur today with no longer be present as well. Our shared service expenses, many of those shared between loan servicing and BPS would no longer be present as well as a smaller corporate footprint would mean that our operating expenses would be lower under that scenario. Now we have to add back the fact that we would now pay our outsourced vendors for servicing our loan portfolio. So you bucket all those things together and the cumulative impact on operating expenses is a reduction of $400 million with a revenue decline of $325 million. That's how it would impact in 2023 actuals. Now it's important to note that when we talk about finalizing these actions in 2024, what we're talking about is becoming more certain about what that scenario actually is. We have -- we're further along in the outsourcing process. And so we have more confidence and more visibility, not perfect yet, but we have more confidence and more visibility into what that will look like during 2024 and we'll share those impacts with you. We're less far along in the process relative to BPS. And so we'll keep you updated along the way as we determine whether, in fact, we do divest all of it as in that scenario and/or whether there's some variation of that. The shared service reductions and the corporate footprint reductions, the timing of those and the nature of those depends on those first two transactions as well. For example, if we don't sell all of BPS, for example, then we may have more stranded costs to take out than if we sell all of it in a piece is an example of that. The other pieces that we have not -- that are not in the outlook is both the nature of the transactions that we end up doing. So what will be the scenario. And then if we sell BPS, what are the sale proceeds. So when we talk about giving greater visibility into the second half of the year, we're talking about at that point, we will know what the scenario is, and we'll have greater visibility into the timing and the amount of any transition items that get us there. Hope that's responsive, Mark.

Yes. I think you're thinking about it is exactly the way that we're thinking about it, Mark. I think I commented on this in his remarks. I would think about the timing of BPS and our decision to explore strategic options is absolutely tied to our decision to outsource because we have this significant shared service infrastructure, and it makes sense to make a decision about those and analyze those as close to simultaneously as we can. We will look at -- so I wouldn't call it imperative, I would call it the timing makes sense for us. And then as you indicate, there's -- and as we called out, there are different uses and different reliance on that shared service infrastructure, even within our BPS businesses, we'll clearly consider that and think about that as we decide on this scenario that we follow for that particular business.

So thanks for the question, Arren. I think a couple of things I'd call you to. First, I go back to Ed's remarks and the way we're thinking about Earnest in terms of not just a lend-centric or lend-first model, but a way to establish relationships and engagement with the student cohort that I think sets us up and gives us some optionality going forward to decide whether there's other product lines or other services that we can provide to that cohort. I would also point out that our -- the loan origination targets that Joe described for Earnest do represent a 40% growth on a combined basis, refi and SLO compared to our actuals for 2023. So I think that's a significant growth rate and a demonstration of our confidence and commitment and our ability to compete effectively in those markets while focusing on our overall efficiency in creating those assets. That's really the goal that we have is to continue to minimize and optimize our cost of acquisition, our collection costs by selecting the right customer segments that allow us to continue to grow on that financial trajectory that we shared, I think, for the first time here this morning.

Yes. So there's two matters, right? One is the CFPB matter is just additional accrual based on the developments in the case, the litigation in the quarter, just like last quarter, we won't comment on the development of those. So that's what the $28 million is.

And then Joe in terms of, sorry, go ahead.

This is Dave. Thanks for the question. Look, I think it's too soon in the process to talk about that. Again, the strategy that Ernest has had and will continue to execute against this year is to continue to build engagement with students through the financial counseling platform. That includes things like, for example, student loan manager, which is a capability that helps students that have federal loans to determine what the best payment and refinancing options are for them. At the same time, we'll be, as I just indicated, growing our loan originations by almost 40% this year, while we're looking at the different product lines, et cetera, that we might be able to build off that engaged user base when we find a set of products and services that we think we can offer. There's a variety of ways that we might do that. It could be through acquisition, it could be through an organic build, it could be through affiliates. I think you've seen all those models work in financial services. And I would say all those things would be on the table if we go down that route.

Yes. Thanks, Sanjay. Good morning. So there's a couple of pieces to that. I'd say I just -- one piece is just the financial implications of the three strategic actions that we took that I ran through the financials a bit earlier, so I'd call you back to that. That clearly in that scenario, reduces expenses by more than the revenue that would no longer be present in the company. I think the second thing is that moving to a variable servicing model has some pretty powerful leverage for us relative to where we are today. We don't project for you our servicing costs out over the remaining life of the loan. But I think you can think about that in terms of we have a fixed cost base and we have a variable cost base. And so as loans pay off and the portfolio amortizes as it has done on a net basis for all but one year in Navient's history, when we originated $6 billion of refi loans in 2019. So in that amortizing scenario, you've seen the variable costs come out as the loan count goes down. But at some point, that fixed cost base doesn't go down as rapidly as the loan count going down. And so the variable cost model, we think produces significant not just operational flexibility, but significant substantial financial benefits as and if the loan portfolio continues to amortize that's very different than the model that we have today. And I think the third piece is just the financing piece and the cost of that, both unsecured and secured liabilities and we have -- the team has done a terrific job over the years of optimizing and reducing that. We think there are some other opportunities that give us some optionality and flexibility that we're going to be looking at over the coming months. So I think those are the three buckets. It's largely reducing the corporate footprint in the business profile that is slimmer and leaner. That includes a corporate expense reduction. It's the moving to a variable cost model and then reducing our cost of financing as well. Those are the three levers that we have.

So thanks for the question. When we say net, it means it considers the fact that we would need to pay an outsourced provider for servicing our loans. So that's what -- so it is included and the expense reduction is net of what we would pay to that provider. So those are -- that's how we would think about it. And I would just remind you that those numbers that we're using are based on 2023 actuals. So if you had that scenario and that was in place for 2023, that's where we got the volumes and the amounts that we've shared with you.

Yes. I think both things are on the table. Obviously, from a number of -- a good mix, I mean, Earnest is a consumer-centric enterprise. So the first thing to do will be to try to find and identify unmet needs or needs that customers have that we can serve. I think they've done a nice job of demonstrating that, particularly in the refi space. And then if you think about product line extensions, that would encompass potentially both additional lending products, but also potential fee-generating products rather than lending products as well. Again, that could include third-party referrals based on our cost of acquisition of a customer, it could involve other kind of products. That work is underway. We have as we've asked for some time to come back to you later in the year with where we came out on that, give some initial thought.

Thanks, Rick, for the question. I think I could back to -- while we have done -- I think the team has done a good job of managing the expenses over time in a shrinking portfolio environment. What we're trying to communicate today is that there's a lot more work that these three actions are designed to address. And it's not just about expense reduction, but as Ed indicated, that overhead, if you will, in a broad sense, the shared service functions, the corporate overhead and our cost of equity all conspire to make growth initiatives more challenged than they need to be, right? Because the portfolio is shrinking. If we don't get rid of those central costs, then they get allocated growth initiatives that burdens them in a way that doesn't allow them to reach their full potential or give us the capacity to make them. So the first thing we're going to -- what we're trying to accomplish is actually to unburden the growth initiatives but also at the same time and in the same way, increases our capacity to invest by increasing the amount of legacy loan cash flows that we have a decision to make a capital allocation decision to make about return and otherwise. With respect to the Earnest growth proposition, I think, we tried to lay out what Earnest has accomplished over the last three or four years. I think that's impressive from a financial perspective. The brand health is a good indication that Earnest has found a way to surprise and delight the customers that it engages with and a customer experience. I know that Ed indicated this, my experience in financial services, that's a really hard thing to do, and they've accomplished that. That's a really good foundation for us to think about how we can take those relationships and that positive brand attribute that Earnest has, which does not exist in the Navient brand and see what opportunities we have to grow off of that. And that's more to come on that. We're not ready to share that with you today. But that's the foundation that we see for growth in Earnest.

Yes. I think you summarized maybe in a little different way what we've been trying to communicate in the strategy update. It is a -- I won't call it a vicious circle, but it is a cycle that we're in that has driven our cost of equity. And so we're addressing the things that we can address, which is give ourselves some financial capacity and flexibility, give investors more transparency on the growth initiatives. I think this is the first time we've broken out Earnest Financials. It's been within the Consumer Lending segment, which added both private legacy runoff and Earnest growth within it. So we're trying to provide the transparency of the market. So you can more clearly see the growth and get a sense of the growth potential and the opportunities within Earnest.

Thank you

Jeff, I would just add, I'd encourage you to look, as I know, you did at 16 and 17 as well because 16 talks about the overall efficiency of loan originations from a cost of acquisition from a servicing cost and from a reserving perspective. And then 17 by breaking out the marketing expense, obviously, that's going to be variable with our cost of acquisition, but we're -- you can see it on page 17 actually the operating leverage -- positive operating leverage that Ed referred to implicit in the kind of distribution model that Earnest has. So there's a temporary -- there'll be an increase in marketing expense and provision expense, excuse me, with higher originations, we'll get some operating leverage on the -- we expect to continue to have operating leverage on that other line. And obviously, those originations are building a revenue stream to increasingly fund additional originations or some of the growth strategies that we're talking about.

Yes. So, look, I think we've said a couple of things that I'd just refer you to. First of all, when we did the outsourcing or the RFP exercise, we did find that our current cost is comparable. And so we're not pointing you or guiding you to look to a significant reduction in servicing expense in the near term. We won't be pointing to that and you shouldn't look and find that. But if you go to the loan cash flow page that we have and think about the tenure of the portfolio that we have over the lifetime of that loan, having our servicing cost 100% variable versus a mixture of fixed and variable, we think, has some really powerful operating leverage to us over the remaining life of the franchise. And I'll just leave it at that. It's a question of -- it's not a lower unit cost. It's a different mix between fixed and variable that drives operating leverage that's not present in our current cost structure and our current servicing model.
