David Maura
Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. (SPB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Nik.

Yes. So I'll go in reverse. I think there was some discussion about a retail customer exiting aquatics, I think that went slower than planned. I think they stayed in the business longer than planned. I'll let Jeremy and Faisal correct me if I'm wrong on any of that. And then one piece you had in there is, yes, we're discontinuing a bunch of SKUs. Look, ‘23, we dealt with a numerous amount of operational challenges and I really wanted to get into ‘24 in a very healthy manner. And so I pressured all business units to really kind of clean themselves up if we had certain margin thresholds weren't being made, if certain inventory turns weren't being achieved, we want to exit those things.

And again, I'll let the team tell me if I get anything wrong, we exited, I think, 1,000 SKUs in Pet. And there's a tail piece of that that's bleeding into Q1 of this year. But it's part and parcel with just wanting to put the sins of the past behind us. Inventory was super heavy at retail, and we suffered with that. And I don't want to bring any of that stuff into fiscal ‘24 with us. And then we made significant new hires in our working capital S&OP processes just over a year ago, and we've been very deliberate on making sure that the inventory we carry is A and B stuff that moves fast, it's got good margins, and it's got good vitality, and we're going to continue to improve the quality of our inventory as we go through '24.

In terms of macroeconomic stuff, I'm definitely not an economist. I appreciate your confidence in me, but I've been dead wrong, Nik. I really thought that the Fed's actions would have resulted in a much slower economy by now. Mortgage rates, the cost of mortgages being 2.5%, 3% and getting up to 8% as we exited the summer into the fall here in the U.S., I really thought that would put the breaks on things and we've had an amazingly resilient consumer here in the U.S. and our businesses have continued to do well in Europe as well. So look, maybe now at the time when things cool off. I certainly -- my personal view is that there won't be as many American tours in making those next summer as there were in the summer of '23. And I think some of that experience in travel expenditure will come off. And hopefully, that will benefit us.

Quite frankly, this company has got a history of making really great products at a great value. We're definitely trying to get back to our roots in hot shot in a number of areas where we're investing heavily in productivity to make sure those unit costs are down. And so we want to be the optically obvious value choice for consumers as we get into spring and next year and hopefully, people are in and around the home a little bit more in calendar ‘24 than they were in ‘23 and maybe that benefits us. But I definitely see a weakening of the consumer market. And I think it's just prudent to plan on that continuing to get a little bit worse as we look out over the next 12 months.

Thank you, Nik.

Look, Bob, I think -- let me hit a couple of just broad points. I mean, it's a very recent history, right? But we only closed the deal and got liquid in June of this year. And running the business a year ago, leverage was 6 times, 6.5 times, running a business for cash. We took a lot of fixed cost out of the company. Two of the three remaining businesses, we've replaced the entire leadership team. I mean, brand-new leaders. We've got a new salesperson that just started in Home & Garden. We recently just hired a new marketing person there. I just put a North American lead into the appliance business. I got a brand-new president there that's taken over from Europe.

I mean you're talking about a business that just didn't get a lot of capital to it because of the leverage situation and the pressure from the DOJ challenging the sale of HHI. And it's a brand-new day. We've got $1.8 billion in the checking account and we think the markets are going to deteriorate. We want to go play offense. And I just think that's the best way to get after it is to jump start this thing with some real investments in people, talent, brands, and we want to make a lot of noise and bring the consumers really great product here and create a base of earnings that is sustainable and growable into the future.

So look, I think we're putting a lot of money in marketing. There's a lot of money going into e-com, doing a lot of real-time testing, test and learn, we call it, on the dot-com partners, and it's all the way from Chewy Amazon, walmart.com, you name it. And we really want to drive the business to a much healthier level and then be able to compound from there as we get healthy. I would say we're going to get healthy in ‘24, and then we're going to try to accelerate that in ‘25 with what we're doing here with these investments today.

Yes. I think that particular entity has been particularly good at innovating, but then spending very large amounts of money advertising. 50, 100 --, hundreds of millions of dollars. And we clearly don't have that size or scale. But that was kind of the thesis behind what we're trying to do with DRTV and DTC with the studio we got through TriStar and that's part of what we're trying to do here with fewer, bigger, better bets. And it's part of what we're trying to do here with the new Remington launch that we just did here in New York City on Monday. So it's get product, it's driven by consumer insight and it's -- test that product, try to make it a fatter pitch and then put real money behind it. And that's definitely a strategy that has worked for them, and we're going to try that playbook where we think it can work for us.

Yes. We're in the middle of completing a $500 million repurchase program now, and that will wrap up soon. And we're going to get off this call and see where the world is next week. But I think if we can continue to shrink our float and grow our earnings, I think good things tend to happen, if you can do that consistently. So -- we've obviously got some bonds outstanding, and there's an obligation there. June, July next year if we don't do an acquisition. But I think we really want to invest in our organic businesses. And never say never. If there's some tuck-in out there that is a slam dunk for Pet and Home & Garden, we probably look at it. But right now, I just want to continue to buy in shares that I think are undervalued. And get our earnings stream growing.

Thank you.

Hi, Ian.

Ian, I'm good. How are you doing? Happy Friday.

Yes. Look, we continue to want to stand that up and build a separate appliance business. But right now, we're trying to get it back to health. And I think we're making some improvements there. We're just out a 600 basis point expansion in the profitability of it in the back half versus the first-half. And we got a lot of work to do there. We just relaunched Remington globally. We've got some new talent in that business that I'm optimistic about. And I think the -- while I think competition remains fierce, I think there's going to be some rationalization too, we've seen a bankruptcy in the space.

I think that retailers are going to want what we're preparing to give them, which is fewer, bigger, better innovations. We typically have brands that have good value price points as I think people are going to watch their spending on durable goods, they'll be tighter with that spending, they'll probably look for value price point product.

And so I think if we can put a couple of quarters of better operating momentum together, and I think that improves our odds of accomplishing our goals. I've not been shy about expressing my view that I do like the idea of a combination. It's synergistic and bring scale and allows us to get additional upside to shareholders. We've certainly been down that road in the past, however, unsuccessfully. And we'll just have to see how that plays out. But I think as current owners of the business, it behooves us to get that thing in a better financial state and get some real earnings growth and operating momentum under it and then the options available to us should improve.

Yes, look, let me hit a head on. Look, you all put me on the spot at all. Look, our Pet business is run rating over $200 million in EBITDA now, right? You saw a $53 print in the quarter. Home & Garden had a very good quarter. We just reported. But we haven't seen a great Home & Garden selling season going on to two years. So we don't want to get over our skis on that. Let's see how March and April plays out. One of the earlier questions there. We had a big retailer, dedicate a lot of space to electronic battery-operated landscape equipment. I'm not sure that went awesome, but maybe we get some space back there. So let's just see how that goes, but I think we can rebuild the earnings power of Home & Garden.

Your specific question around appliances look, we got a $1.2 billion business. And this business used to be able to do high single digit, low double-digit EBITDA margins. It's just I believe you're seeing so much distortion in that industry because you had this giant demand caused by COVID. And because the retailer couldn't get enough product from us or anybody else, they bought from anybody. And so I think you had a lot of fly by night guys get involved in the business. Hawking product from China at little to no margins with tons of recalls and it's really damaged the economics of the space.

But as that rationalizes and people go bankrupt and consolidation happens and retailers understand, hey, guys like us are in it to win it. We're here to stick around and be here for the long term. we gained back margin structure. And I think if we can, through better talent and global marketing operations, like we just demonstrated with Remington on launch in New York, we can start to rebuild that margin structure. Clearly, a 10% margin on $1.2 billion of revenue, it's -- that's the number you just quoted. So I don't think we're going to get there in '24. But I think we can lay the foundation for it in '24 and maybe set up to it in '25, '26, yes.

Yes. Look, I think we did a study. We returned about $3 billion of cash to shareholders in the last 5 years. We've just returned $5 billion -- $500 million, almost wrapping that up we've got a dividend out there. So returning a lot of cash to shareholders this calendar year, we continue to think we're materially undervalued. And so you can probably expect us to continue to buy shares, but we've got to finish this current $500 million ASR, and we'll update you when that's done.

Thanks, Olivia.
