David Deno
Bloomin' Brands, Inc. (BLMN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. And the only thing I would add to that is, you asked about mix and mixed trends, yes, no, we're still -- and you saw it in the numbers. We're still seeing some negative mixed trends show up in the financials. But at the same time, I think, as we've said in the last couple of calls, a lot of that's engineered the growth in catering at Carrabba's has been significant. The LTO activity has been very successful. So I think that it's been more engineered than anything else. Now, that's not to say that there isn't some check management going on, but I don't think that's the lion's share of what we've been seeing.

Yes, we have a -- they've been a very positive part of our Company, and we welcomed our two new Board members, as you saw. We've had good interaction in the boardroom, good ideas, and they've been a big part of helping us understand how we can move our businesses forward. And we're very optimistic about the year. And I think it's been a good partnership.

Sure. I think we've made progress, but we have more to do. I don't know if I should give a football analogy or a scale of 1 to 10. But I think we've made progress. We're seeing it in our trends, which -- especially at the end of last year and in the first quarter this year at Outback. But when you look at the work we've done to understand our consumer and in this post-COVID environment and sharpen our positioning, that's been done.

I think you look at the No Rules, Just Right positioning we've started, that started more work to do there. If you look at the food and service elements that we've invested in, we've invested in some, but we have even more to do, I think, on some of the service elements and some of the food elements. We've talked about the additional spending in marketing. In 2024, we're seeing some return on that.

We've opened up six new restaurants, and we're going to open up 15 to 18 in 2024 and then we're remodeling. So, it's -- Alex, it's started, but we have more to do. And I think we're beginning to see it, the trend change in the business.

Yes, John. I think on the simplification side, that's something we have always looked at and we are continuing to look at. And I think that's a good point that you make, and it's something that we're looking at in the marketplace. I don't want to get any further than that because of competitive reasons, but I think you've hit on something that we're looking at and that brings improved operations.

And I talked on the call about the progress we're making, if we can make it with the technology and with some of the work we're doing on the menu. If we can make it easier for operators to serve product and easier for our customers to navigate the menu, that could be an opportunity for us. So we're looking at that number one.

Number two is, the way we try to get about this, John is, if you look at our combo pricing, that's something that's very attractive versus competitors. If you look at what we're doing with the Aussie 3-course meal at $16.99, that works very well. And we're also potentially looking at some high quality menu items that may be a little bit lower price that we would introduce on the menu to help offset some of the pricing at Outback -- some of the pricing perceptions at Outback.

So those are the things that we're doing. It's looking at our combo pricing, we're looking at some of the LTOs that we're doing, and advertising against that. We're also looking at some of the menu items that we can bring in place that might be a little lower price point, but offer high value and high quality.

The other thing, Sharon is, we're opening 40 to 45 new restaurants to bring and those restaurants will be far more visible, attractive, higher performing across the portfolio. And so that will really help as well.

Yes, Sharon. I love our pipeline. Our real estate team has done a great job. You're correct. We would like to improve the cadence and raise the cadence as we go forward. As Chris mentioned, we're always on top of our returns, to make sure that the returns are great. But we have a pipeline building that is very, very strong, especially in our stronghold markets in the Southeast.

Yes. Jeff. Two ways to think about it. One, it will build, and we will always look at the ideas we have. And I'm pretty excited about couple of the ideas coming up, balance of the year. And so the ideas will -- the funding will follow the ideas. So we see that there, we will build during the year, and then we will fully support our ideas with strong share of voice.

Sure. We look at that very carefully across the P&L, look at our labor investments, our food investments, and then also CapEx. One of our ways to unlock traffic growth, especially at Outback where we have older assets, is the refreshment of the really strong assets, re-locations and new, and that will uplift the entire trade area. And as we did our relocations -- or excuse me, as we did our remodels in 2023, we tried to concentrate them, for instance, in Florida, and we saw the benefit of that concentration.

So as we look across the P&L, we look at the investments we want to make in labor, we look at the investments we want to make in food and advertising. But then also we look at our capital and we know that the cash on cash return we received is strong. And then what it does for the entire marketplace and then what it does for traffic as we uplift our assets.

Yes. There's nothing like a new Outback or two in a trade -- in a city to attract people and say, wow, look at that. Especially in our new prototypes, which we think are very attractive. So that's part of the traffic building as well for the entire trade area.

Yes. I think our labor models are very well established, well run. We've invested behind the technology to enable our servers. We've invested in cooking technology to enable our back of the house. The service model is strong, and we feel very good about it. So the labor spending at the restaurant level, number of hours, et cetera, is in really good shape.

Yes, I don't want to get into too much detail for competitive reasons, but a couple of things. One, our core is loves Outback Steakhouse, and they continue to say that again and again and again. And I think we have some permission from some of our explorers out there that might be looking at some other categories of interest, but the focus is on the core. And if we can pick a few explorers that look at other categories besides steak, I think Outback has the permission to do that.

And the last thing is, the reinforcement of how Outback is such an adventurous steakhouse. And we have a lot of support for our long heritage of No Rules, Just Right, our Aussie heritage, et cetera, all those things came to light, as we continue to do our research.

Yes, it will move up during the year, but I think more importantly, it'll do -- it'll be with ideas that we have, which I'm -- like I said before, I'm very optimistic about. I think if we can do the combo of products that consumers really love, and I don't want to get into detail here along with a good value, I think that's the magic that we can bring together at Outback, especially to help grow traffic in our advertising and our consumer awareness and excitement. I think that's clearly something that we can do because we have a heritage of that.

The second thing is, like I said, you'll see the step-up of spending during the year, as the ideas come to fruition. And we'll continue to track that return as we go forward. And lastly, I think we have a much better understand, we talked about on other calls on, the way to advertise, be it digital versus network, versus television, those are things that we can also look at and change the mix around as we need to. So those are the things that we're doing with our advertising investment, and we continue to track the returns and what we can do going forward.

Yes, I don't want to get into specific percentage points versus the industry, Brian, I hope you understand that. But I think you know me pretty well. We've gone from a place, especially in the fall when Outback was behind the industry in same store sales growth to a point in December, and then into Q1, where we're consistently ahead. And we're very pleased about that. And that's the result of the beginning of the work we're doing. And we can see going forward some of the work we're doing to help that trend continue and hopefully strengthen.

But that is about all I can say right now. I don't want to get into price points per se. After the weather the first three weeks, we've seen the trend resume that we saw in December, and the last few weeks have shown just that. And so we tried to bundle all that into our guidance for the quarter.

Yes.

Brian, before I get your next question, I just want to mention one thing that hasn't gotten a lot of attention on this call, but I just need to say a couple of things about the Carrabba's team, how great they're doing. And if you look at their trends versus the industry, they're just knocking it out of the park, both in traffic and in sales. And it's a brand we feel very good about and something that has investment opportunities going forward. So excuse me for interrupting you, but I just wanted to mention that.

I just want to underscore to Brian. The productivity we do will not touch food quality and not touch service levels. It's pure getting our great products and our service to our people in a more efficient manner. So that's extremely important to us.

Sure, the environment remains good. Inflation has come down. Interest rates are still pretty high down there, but the consumer is in good shape. We had a tremendous sales improvement last year at this time, probably because of the World Cup. So that was a very difficult lap, which we were able to do. And so the new openings are fantastic. Our position is unparalleled, number one. And so the operating environment, we believe, continues to be really, really strong. So that is -- that's important.

The second piece is, we've looked at in the past about potentially having that business to be a franchise business. That still is something that we may or may not consider. We'll just continue to look at the environment and then the value we get from the business, and as we move forward. So we continue to look at optionality down there. But right now, our job is to continue to build a great business.

I think for us, we have to do some more work there. Some of the work that we did at Outback, quite frankly. Get a better understanding of our customer in this post COVID environment. I think that's something that we need to focusing on, we're doing that work right now. Is there menu investment and simplification opportunities that we can do, we're looking at that.

We've invested in operations both in technology, but also focusing on key measures, such as speed of service in our bar and for our food because it's such a bar centered concept. It's our highest mixing beer, liquor, wine business in casual dining. And we continue to refresh our assets at Bonefish, those kind of the four-pronged strategy there. It's not a growth vehicle for us. We'll continue to upgrade the assets, and we'll continue to do the customer and menu work to get that brand trends to improve.

Yes. We're making significant progress in our operating measures, so we'll continue to make progress each and every month. And our goal is certainly as soon as we can I don't want to make a specific prediction, but it's something that we are all over. And I'm very pleased with the operating measures we're seeing, both in the internal progress we're making, but also externally with Technomic and other people that do a lot of work for us externally. So that is really a great thing to see. So that's the first thing.

The second thing is, I think it's more around the trade-off at the restaurant between variety and menu simplification. Can we continue to make progress there as we do our work, so there's more work coming at Outback there.

Number two is, really leveraging our technology. You saw the benefit of the handheld that's clearly happening. The grills have been a big success. If you look at recooks and reorders and steak satisfaction, that's been very, very strong. And then as we continue to do this in casual dining, this customer comes two or three times a year. We've just got to continue to make progress here. That will be a reinforcement in building traffic. And then as we look at our chances to help our managing partners and our team to offer great service, those are the things that we're looking at.

Yes. I love some of our product and marketing ideas coming up. And I like the fact that we're looking at how we're spending our advertising dollars and how we're doing it to support those ideas. So in the near term, that's clearly something that we'll be looking at, and very hopeful for. In longer term some of the menu work we talked about continuing with our positioning is really important.

I think the asset upgrades, if you live in Florida and go into our Outback, most of them remodeled now, and you can see it. Those are the things longer term are going to really help us. So our operations longer term, our asset investment longer term, our menu work, we want to balance some short term gains, which I think are possible, along with some of the strong long term things that we have in place at Outback.

Yes, I think it's the first step and I think it's something we'll continue to look at in our various limited time offer opportunities. We can certainly look at that. But then, as I mentioned earlier on the call, Jon, we're also looking at some products that may have a lower price point. There is still really great products that are good return to the Company, but also offer great value to the customer. So we're doing some of that work on the menu side as well. But we have the opportunity through our combos and through selected LTOs with the right marketing spend to drive value in the brand.

We are thinking that they would be permanent, but they have to earn their right onto the menu.

Yes. Before I turn over to Chris, I just want to mention, there's a very benign commodity basket peak, one exception, that's beef. And so we don't want to price up to cover that beef cost entirely. So we have to continue looking at our margins to look at that and how it means -- what it means for our customer. But I want to make that broad point first before I turn over to Chris.

Yes. I'd just like to say in our Company, the money follows the ideas, and good ideas get supported, and we'll continue to have that discipline.

Thank you, everybody, for your time this morning. We look forward to updating you on our Q1 call later this year. And, Chris, thank you for everything you've done for our Company.
