David Risher
Lyft (LYFT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. I'll take it, Mark. And Erin and I will tag team on this. But this I’ll be taking. So scheduled rides, it's an amazing product and it's one we've invested in a ton. And as you heard me say, the fact that we can guarantee to sort of the 98% plus reliability level at scheduled ride, I think speaks really well both to our operational excellence but also to the potential of the product. So right now, only about 5% of our rides are scheduled. Great upside, because as you mentioned, it has nice economics. This proportion of those are to the airport. But if you think about it, Monday morning comes around, you got to get to the office. There's really no reason for you to be doing on-demand ride share at that minute if the night before you have to get to the office. Bad weather comes around. We can forecast that just like you can. There's really no reason for you not to schedule a ride up front there. So we actually see there are a lot more use cases building on this infrastructure we built. And there's a lot of upsides, again, for riders, but also for drivers because drivers do get paid more. In fact, just click aside, we just did a release last week and we're now paying drivers to wait as well, which is something that drivers really care about. So it's a good win-win.

On our second question on media, again, so much opportunity. I think if I'm not mistaken, I think our Q4 media business was bigger than what it was in all of the prior year, 2022. And the reason for that is brands are hungry for new ways to connect with their customers. And if in the moment a person asks for a Lyft, you get sort of this matching screen. And if you've used Lyft recently, which of course I hope you have, you may well have seen an ad. We actually had almost sold out, I think, ad run around Super Bowl and so on and so forth. So anyway, you get an ad there. And then if you're in the car, you're in the car for some 7 to 10 to 12 minutes and people tend to check their app, actually, to be more precise, the average ride, the typically ride more like 15 minutes. And people look at their phone about nine times during that 15 minute. They're very sort of open and receptive to high quality content. And so we're working really closely with the Disney's of the world, the Universal of the world, the Apple computers of the world and so on and so on, to produce very, very high quality content.

We've actually just released a video ad unit, as an example. But we thought it was going to be captivating, engaging, interesting to riders, and obviously has good margin characteristics. By the way, we hope to be able to share some of those economics back with drivers as well, particularly for the in tablet or their in car tablet, in this case, which we got about 9,000 tablets out there. So anyway, a lot more to talk about here, but we're super excited about it. Just the numbers are fairly small now, but we've got big aspirations.

Yes, why don't we tag team on this for you, Nikhil. By the way, I read your report last week. Yes, so anyway, I'm going to zoom out for a second because it sort of gives us the opportunity to speak a little big picture of where we're going, what we've seen and where we're going. And I'll talk about growth broadly speaking. So at the top line, first of all, we see actually super healthy industry dynamics and frankly good sector growth, back to work is definitely a thing, travel is definitely a thing, all the macro trends that you see, and we look pretty closely and try to detect any reasons to worry and really just can't again, not your question, but just to sort of set the stage, I really can't find much to worry about there. A lot of sorts of growth that's just coming, some from post COVID and some from just the fact that we've got a great service and people are adopting it. So then we sort of go down a level.

And again, of course, I talked about the continuous innovation and rider perfection and the partnership driven growth. And each of those both individually and collectively really add to a very, very strong growth story on the side. Now, I think, Nikhil, and you capture, refresh my memory because it's been a while already since you asked the question, we've been blabbing here, maybe just rephrase the end of that question, and we'll sort of try to try hit up with more directly.

Yes, love it. Yes, Erin will grab it now.

Yes, sorry. We're just going to; I'm going to go in a little wilder on this one. So, because there's a lot of interesting opportunities. So, Mark asked a question about priority pickup and actually not priority pickup, first schedule ride, which is a slightly higher margin product. Priority pickup is another. Extra comfort is another. We've talked about that a couple of times. We launched that in October. It's a slightly premium priced product, a buck or two, call it. But our costs are not significantly different. So, if you look at mix, lots of opportunity there. And then, again, back to the point of media, that's a very high margin business for us, as well as a lot of our partner originated ride. So I'd say a lot of our focus so far has really been on that growing top line in a very efficient way and in a sort of structured, financially strong way. I think we've got real opportunity on the margin side, which is reflected in the remarks that Erin just made.

Yes, thanks for the question. A couple of things that I'll just say sort of directionally. First, just a level set for everyone. We launched it at the end of last year. It was first in five markets and it was in 55 markets now. Just as a stay, it's in over 200 markets. So obviously from an overall buying perspective, it's still fairly small, but from a product-market fit perspective, it's super, super good. And frankly, sort of off the charts type of thing. There aren't many features that you launch, for example, that have something like a 98% driver acceptance rate, and no one turns it off once it's on. And so those are types of early indicators we look for. I mentioned the fact that drivers are now referring Lyft to other potential drivers. These are women drivers referring to potential men drivers.

And back to that margin expansion point, roughly speaking, if we have higher density, we have higher margins because of the sort of way the structure of rides goes. So anyway, that's really good. And then if we mentioned we've done about 7 million rides so far on Women+ Connect just in the last couple of months, just in those 55 markets. And we expect, obviously, that to accelerate quite a bit now that we're nationwide. So nothing specific to share, but really good product-market fit. And as I always say, if you look at the sort of social media commentary or frankly, ask if you see your wife or your daughter or a woman in your life, whether they think this is a good thing, you'll I think probably hear very good response.

Let me pick up on that, speaking of improving from here. So I'll give you some data about what we've seen and then maybe directionally in the future. What we've seen, and we mentioned ETA specifically, as well as primetime. So ETA actually got faster in Q4 quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year than they've been before. So we saw a really nice directional improvement there. Primetime, I can actually be more precise. We saw about a 40% reduction in the share of rides affected by primetime in Q4, again, year-on-year. So really significant meaningful changes in both. So then the question is how much further is there to go? And this is an area, look, here's a little personal story. I just finished a book recommended to me by a colleague here called Unreasonable Expectations. And my expectations are unreasonable. I will continue to push this very hard on this. And the team, I hope, is energized by it, because as you've seen with things like the on-time pickup promise, now, I really focus on doing something, even at the scale we are in, which is just a reminder, we're doing 2 million rides a day. Well, I think I sometimes comment on, the riff here is I look at an airline, like a Delta Airlines, you might do 3,000 or 4 ,000 flights a day. Now, obviously, they're shipping on a lot of people. Those are 180, 200 passengers in jets. But still, the scale that we're working at is really quite large. And so I remind our team, while it's large, we do it, it's no excuse. We still have to do just an unreasonably good job every day. So I don't want to speculate on how much further we can go, but I will say we're quite focused on perfection. That's not a word we chose, cavalierly.

Yes, that's good. One I want to meddle. I'll start with the first. So I mean a couple things there. So actually I'll start with an old chess type. The best time to replace your roof is when the sun is shining. So we have strong driver preference for Lyft already. And that's been true for a long time really since the earliest days of Lyft. I'd say it's one of the real sorts of differentials between Lyft and Uber on kind of a perception basis on the driver side. And so we're leaning into that. We're leaning into that. And so behind the scenes, you might have seen the report that came out a couple weeks ago from Gridwise that sort of suggested that Uber drivers earnings have been decreasing. I think they estimated about 17%. Where is ours have been going up over the same period. I forgot; period was I think two years maybe a little over 2%. So in the background, we've been working quite hard at making sure that our drivers are paid as well as they can. And again, just for clarity. It's technically the riders who pay the drivers, and we just take a cut. So that's kind of the mechanics of it. So then I say, given those mechanics, the riders pay the drivers, and we take a cut. Well, what can we do to address a very consistent set of pain points the drivers have communicated to me, often in quite personal ways, I might add, I'm since the day I started. One is around transparency. A question of fairness. Are you taking too much?

And the second is a question of minimums, frankly. Why are there some rides where it feels like my rider pays 20 bucks, and I get barely anything? So it was a very deliberate strategy in our part. It's been, for some period of time, to say there are two customers in every car, as a rider and a driver, and if we can drive preference on both, that's what ends up creating marketplace efficiency, which then in turn, obviously increases service levels, improved service levels, but also increases top line end margin. So it's really quite a self-fulfilling prophecy. And back to your question around timing, sort of if not now when, like you sort of want to do it when things are going pretty well, rather than feeling like you're going to have to defend yourself. I'll say one last thing before I turn it over to Erin. There's a piece we published last week that I would encourage everyone to read is customer obsession doesn't just mean listening to customers. Of course it means that, and trying to come up with things innovating on their behalf. But it also means deeply, deeply understanding their needs so that the work that you're doing, responds to those needs. We published a white paper about 10 days ago, or actually I guess about a week ago, and it's called something like the Driver Transparency Earnings Report. I forget the exact name of it. It's really quite a nice piece of work, and I'm going to brag on the team for a second. The team, quite a large team actually across the company, spent a lot of energy looking not just at gross earnings, which is how much drivers get paid kind of off the top, but also net earnings, in other words, what they make after their expenses, their gasoline, their maintenance, their depreciation, even the cleaning of the car, all the marginal costs that you have when you drive for ride share.

And I did it for all kinds of reasons. Policymakers are interested in this, but frankly, so are we. We're really interested in understanding how much drivers take home. And on average, after all the expenses, the best we can see, and this is an average, you can see the quantiles in the report, but on average, $23.46 per engaged hour is what Lyft drivers make. And we're very proud of that. We think it stacks up really nicely against other potential ways people can earn money, particularly when you add the flexibility you get. So there's a very long answer, but really, I think it, I hope reveals the way we think about driver supply, which is not just some generic number of million drivers making a billion dollars, whatever, but very specifically, why do drivers drive, how much money do they make, and how can you give them a certain amount of assurance within the context of our business, all of their independent contractors that they take is fair.

I'm going to say one more thing here too because this is the chance to brag on our team a little bit. So and actually give a little preview to Investor Day. We mentioned what they do in Investor Day. I think one of the things, this will sound strange, but if you come to Investor Day, and I hope you do, and you get a chance to meet Max Feldman, who is up for our Insurance and Risk Management, and the guy's a rock star. And it's just an incredible team we've got that focus on risk management. I think you'll come away super, both impressed, but also educated about how we think about this. I'll also point out one of the newest additions to our board, Jill Beggs who is the Head of North American and Global, especially Reinsurance for Everest Re brings an enormous amount of insurance expertise to the company, enormous amount. And so Erin said, we really like the sort of the mix. And yes, we'll be interested to see what the other guys do, but we feel pretty good about our strategy.

So, Hey, Deepak. I'll take the first part of then; Erin and I'll tag team on or Erin will take the second. So, so first, yes, good question about active riders and definitely want to double down on something you alluded to, but it's good for everyone to understand, which is because our active riders are the sum of ride share and bikes and scooters. You see a bit of a sort of a switch in Q4 where obviously when there's snow on the ground and cold people don't take bikes very much. So there's a little bit of a switch that are going under the covers, but probably speaking, here's the way we look at it. Then we sort of zoom out here a little bit like for us, every single time we get a rider and I mentioned that 25% of our riders were new last year. It's very, very important that we work on our service levels. We work on obsessing over that ride and over that rider. Because just to say the cliche thing, it's almost easier, more efficient to hold onto an existing rider than to acquire a new book. And so our first order of business over the last couple of quarters has really been to focus on making sure that every time we get a rider new or existing, we take good care. What that translates to is higher frequency and particularly when you look at our high frequency riders again, riders come in all shapes and sizes and they're all sorts of segments.

But if you look at our high frequency riders, you actually see a meaningful increase in frequency there. We think that's incredibly telling because it's a really good leading indicator when your biggest fans will also tend to be your biggest critics are positively responding to the work you've done. That has massive ripple effects. And so it means that over time, as we focus even more energy on rider acquisition through new product initiatives like Women+ Connect some of these other things we do. Every single one of those riders that comes in is effectively a more profitable rider for us, right, because what we expect them to be a heavier user of Lyft. So that's sort of the focus. The focus is on really increasing. Working on those basics, that creates some good frequency things. If you do a good job of it, you see it earliest in high frequency riders, because that's obviously as for the data is the densest. And then you can sort of, over time, to the extent you want to or need to, you can do more customer acquisition, even in terms of product innovation, or even marketing efforts, or some combination of both. So that's kind of the structure. And then I'll turn it over to Erin to talk about the cost.

Yes, sure. Hey, Michael, it’s David. Yes, that's one of those quotes that's come back a couple times. I've seen that one. So that was meant to be aspirational and long term to be clear. Who knows? Maybe we'll get there sooner or maybe later. Team is working pretty hard. I think, I hope I'm not saying anything out of line here, but last week they had their biggest sales week ever in history. We just announced that on stage, just internally and that's on a Friday. So what does that tell you? That tells you that the business is growing fast by definition. It tells you it's a good product market fit. It doesn't tell you the size and we're being deliberate about it. It's not particularly large from a sort of overall total company perspective. But again, we see really good fit with what our advertisers, our media partners are looking for. And you'll see a lot of innovation on our side when it comes to new ad units. Just as a quick reminder and just for a big picture for one second. We have advertising units that we sell in the Lyft app. We have advertising units that we sell on tablets, which are in cars. You've probably seen them if you've been in New York City recently.

We have advertising units we sell on top of cars. And then we even have, thanks again to our bike and scooter business, we've got panels, some of which are old school, and on panels, some of which are increasingly digital electrified panels in some cities. So we've got a really nice, and it's one of the reasons why, on Super Bowl Sunday, for example, I mentioned, I think, I didn't mention Zillow. Zillow also did a big buyout. And they tend to be sort of multi-channel buyouts cost these sorts of multiple kind of ad outlets, sort of surround sound type things. And it's something that we can provide that there aren't a lot of other ways in the physical and digital world. And that's really quite interesting, right? Because the physical world still turns out to be quite important to a lot of people, and we're right there in front of them. So anyway, all that's really just kind of meant to be color. In terms of the actual numbers though, we're not releasing those yet. But for sure, it'll be something you'll be hearing us talk more about. Over time, I do stand by my prediction. I'm just not putting out time frame rather.

Yes, this is always an area where I get frustrated as just myself, because of course I always want to talk about all the things we've got on the pipeline, but it's not such a good idea. I think thus I have to sort of keep talking about some of the same things. Let's look at Comfort Plus for just a second. Comfort Plus, relatively small product from the portfolio, but I think we've given about 2 million rides or so since we've launched it. And that's wonderful. And it's not a product we've particularly marketed. We play around with a little bit on site stuff, but there's more we can do there when people want either a slightly larger car, slightly newer car, or at least in my case sometimes a slightly quieter car is another option to get there. So that's a sort of small example. Online pickup promise. Again, today it's very focused on airports, right? But that doesn't necessarily have to be where you stop with that or a promise like that. You can imagine all sorts of ways that we can guarantee reliability and maybe charge a premium for it. So there's a lot more to do there. I wish I could get more specific. But I'm going to have to sort of leave it there. But I think one of the things that's really, that I just enjoy frankly about, pardon me, my job and about the team is how focused folks are on coming up with amazing new ideas for customers. Expect to see a lot more over time.

Hey, Yusuf, it's David. I'll start and again, Erin will tag team with me. So unfortunately, I have to disappoint you a little bit. We're not going to give specifics on that percentage, how we expect it to change, but I will add a little color because I think it helps tell the story. And the word partners such a broad word, it's maybe helpful to have a bit of a framework. You might think of some of these partners, unless you Chase as an example, of a fairly clear value proposition where Chase is not the largest credit card issuer, or I think they are actually the largest credit card issuer in North America. They have a, we have a very strategic and long-term relationship with them involving Chase Sapphire in particular, where people can earn points by using their Chase Sapphire card. And that's something as a driver, I hear fairly regularly from my riders that they say that's the reason that they choose Lyft. So those sorts of, and then we have a similar issue with Delta. We have similar issues with Alaska Airlines. There's a lot more we can do with all of those. I mentioned briefly by the way, those partnerships sometimes start in one way and then they morph to a different thing. So Alaska Airlines, or excuse me, Delta Airlines, started as a points partnership. It's now evolved to be a commute partnership, right?

So because as I say, flight crews get transported by Lyft to the airports. Let me give you some other examples. Again, just purely for color. With Amazon, we have a relationship with them where we're providing a certain amount of support for their distribution center workers, as well as some business travel. The Starbucks, I mentioned early on and so I did with Delta. FedEx. So FedEx, we help them get to and from their distribution centers, again, in kind of a commute context. And then similar with LinkedIn. LinkedIn actually had an instant situation with return to office where their parking lots actually ran out of space. And so we now, with our Lyft pass product, provide a commute solution for them. So each of these, and you've heard us talk about health care in the past, which has had some nice growth. Again, these are relatively small individually, but collectively they turn out to be quite meaningful.

And so again, without wanting to sort of get ahead of myself on exactly a percentage prediction, whatever it is, I'll say it's a part of the business where we're making real investments because we see a lot of opportunity. And they tend to be, by the way, quite sticky relationships, which is nice, right? If you're doing a good job for your partner, there's no reason for that partner to switch. And so that provides us some long-term stability, as well as potentially higher margin and of course incremental rights.

I'll be brief. I really appreciate the opportunity. Thanks for joining us today, you all. This business really has come a long way over the past year. We are competing well, but we're executing really well for our riders and drivers. And I think growing some great new businesses and doing it, dropping free cash through the whole statement. So, super excited about where we've been. Here's where I want to end. Thank you to our shareholders for being such a good partner for us over the years. And in particular, thanks to our team members. I know we have team members who sometimes log into these calls. Really appreciate every single person on the call who's been working so hard. On behalf of riders and drivers and making a great business. So thank you all. We look forward to keeping up to date. And thanks again.