David Wilkinson
NCR Voyix Corporation (VYX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Mark, this is David. ARR, as you described, is an important metric for us and really reviewing the health of the overall strategy. We saw ARR grow 5% in '23, that's in total. And we saw digital banking was at 8%, restaurants at 12% and retail was at 1%. When we look forward into this year, we see that growing across the company at mid- to high single digits with that mid- to high single-digit growth rate across all 3 of the segments. So that's really a testament to the -- both the platform strategy and our acquisition of customers with payments. .

I would call any out due to the spin itself. I think for us, we feel like we're, I'll say, in fighting shape and the ability to get very focused on the segments that we serve. And what we've seen is that as we not only sort of our enterprise existing customers, but then move into mid-market on our focus areas, it really -- our differentiators are around the core tech platform and our ability to service those customers end-to-end.

So as our clients have increasing complexity, we differentiate even further. So you'll see us continue to grow in the mid-market space. But I don't know that the dynamic has changed as much as we feel more focused on how we're looking for growth from new sites in the mid-market and connecting our existing enterprise customers to the platform for cross-sell upsell. .

I'll just add, Brian. I think that the hardware expectations we have are in line with what we're seeing in the broader market for harder demand coming out of the post COVID, I'll call it rebound from 1.5 years to 2 years ago and then some of the dynamics that we saw in the market last year. So we're seeing that in line with market. .

Yes, Kartik. And I would add that as we described in our prepared remarks, we've had 39 net new wins in that space over the last 12 months. And we believe that's an undervalued crown jewel within our portfolio. When you look at the overall customer wins that we're seeing, we're taking share in that space, and we have a very competitive product.

So we like the growth prospects in that business. And even though we are -- it's a large business for us, it's also very profitable, already breaking the rule in this space. So we feel really good about that business and the long-term growth prospects.

Yes. You say SMB, I'll just redirect a little bit to mid-market. We are focused on that 5%, that kind of multisite operator, both restaurant and retail. The product, we feel is in good shape. So -- we're going to work on process in terms of making it easier to -- for our sellers to quote and onboard those customers with the payments led offering. And on the sales side, if I look at it overall, we're investing about $15 million across the whole company and selling.

And so when I think about where the growth will come across all 3 businesses, it will be in that mid-market segment across all 3 businesses. So we're going to make more investments in sales to get more feet on the street. And that's where we think the impact will show up. .

It's mainly the legacy players that we're seeing the -- I'll call it as the donor pool.

And I would just say that on those cost savings, those are the net numbers. We're going to reinvest some of that if you look at the Q4 exit run rate, that's what we're reinvesting back in go-to-market in sales, just to make sure we can continue to grow the business. While we're making the strategic savings in certain areas.

They're -- I'll say a little more surgical as we look at the foundational elements that Brian described, where we're not making cuts is things like customer support, product innovation and investment and sales and go-to-market, we're continuing investment there.

Yes. In closing, I'd like to thank our customers, again for the trust they put in us every day to help them achieve their strategic objectives. I'd also like to thank again our NCR Voyix colleagues for their contribution to our success up to now and our investors for their ongoing support.

As I stated earlier, we remain committed to serving our existing clients and bringing them all on the platform journey. Our platform investments over the past years have provided real value to our customers, and we're going to continue to connect them to the platform.

We've built a solid foundation for growth within our base and growth of new customers, specifically in the mid-market. While we're proud of where we are, we need to do better at turning this foundation into growth, and this focus will show up in our results. I believe in the plan we have outlined today, and I believe in this management team to execute. Thank you all for joining the call.