David Campbell
Evergy, Inc. (EVRG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Nick.

So thanks, Nick, for the question. We won’t get ahead of the process in terms of describing the details that emphasize that we’re working hard with parties toward achieving a constructive compromise. And I really can’t thank the parties enough. This is hard work. It’s hard work on through the legislation we had several weeks. So that’s legislators, KCC staff, curb, industrial stakeholders, Governor’s office, others. So we’re working with those parties. And what I’ll describe is the – this is a very transparent process, as you know, so continue to watch developments in the legislative process that we’re able to reach a constructive compromise because there is a lot of shared alignment on the goals of economic development growth. Then you’ll see the next steps would involve going to the House Committee and from that to the full house and hopefully on to the Senate. So keep an eye on what’s going on in the legislative process. That’s the best way to get a sense for where the discussions are going and what they include. But again, we want to really thank the parties as we continue to work with.

Yes. Mike, I think it’s a good question. I think that we – and as you have seen, a lot of our peer utilities, there are pace of rate base investment was already higher than ours in terms of their annual rate base growth, and many of them have increased them significantly recently. So, the gap has widened. So, if you look at our – break it down by jurisdiction, you look at Kansas Central and Kansas Metro, the biggest source of increases in generation, particularly in the out years, and that relates to a need for new dispatchable generation resources. If you look at the earlier years in the categories of kind of traditional T&D grid and other categories, there is a modest decline. I mean that’s in the context of an inflationary environment for equipment and otherwise. So, we are making the investments we need to, to ensure reliability and serve the new customers that are identified, but we do believe, and this is a discussion we have had with stakeholders that to really take advantage of the opportunities in Kansas. There is an intersection with the regulatory mechanisms that are in place. So, when you drill down to it, you will see that, that the modest upticks in Kansas are really driven by the need for the new generation in the out years, particularly new dispatchable generation.

Mike, I think that’s a great question. If we – part of the dialogue with our stakeholders in Kansas is around the need for incremental investment, if we are able to reach a constructive comprise that reflects shared belief in the infrastructure investment needed, that’s really what’s underlying the push here. I do think you will see us evaluate our capital plan for incremental opportunities and pursue those. Now, we will do that in a systematic process, of course, and make sure that, that’s a process where there is full transparency to both our – of course, our stakeholders in Kansas and the market. But I think you will see that these factors do go hand in hand underlying reflection of support for that kind of infrastructure investment will be matched by an increase in that kind of investment, which we think will be really beneficial as Kansas pursues the growth and development opportunities.

No, it’s – Mike, it’s a pretty straightforward rate case. It’s largely we had a rate case 2 years ago. So, our ‘22 and ‘23 rate cases were after long stay outs, first since the merger. So, this one is a little more straightforward in that regard. So, the biggest elements I think you would see it reflected in the charts we have been posted on there are incorporating capital additions and incorporating the impacts of higher cost of capital environment. There is some transmission expense related to a generation plant that’s part of it, that’s relatively modest. But for the most part, it’s a pretty straightforward rate case. A lot of the complicated issues that I know we discussed at length with you going in the last one, thankfully resolved in that one. So, it’s generally a pretty straightforward rate case centered on the investments we have made since then and the authorized returns related to it.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Not even when I hear it.

I would just echo Kirk’s comment, though, on – this is David, that these are industrial customers, which as you know, the profile of those are helpful, important for covering fixed costs, but generally less impact than equivalent load growth in commercial and residential.

I think the 6% rate base growth is indicative of the overall capital plan and trajectory is what I described, and you can follow-up on some of the details. What I emphasize also is that we are pursuing a pretty balanced portfolio as you have seen. And actually, you have seen that from a number of our peer utilities as well with the growth that we are seeing. Adding new dispatchable resource is also an important part of the mix, and that generally has pretty wide support in our jurisdictions. And it’s an important part of the investment program. So, adding gas, while we are adding wind and adding solar, leading that responsible energy transition, but with the balanced portfolio is an important part of the mix. And I think we have got alignment with our stakeholders in our states around the importance of doing that.

Thank you.

Sure. So, I think as probably reflected by the number of minutes devoted to the topic. Our legislative initiative in Kansas, really a broader effort to work with policymakers and stakeholders in Kansas to support electric infrastructure investment, to support economic development and growth. That I would list as our top priority. And there are other mechanisms. I mean we are talking with the same parties who we would work with in the regulatory front and other laws. So, I think the importance of having constructive dialogue, alignment around those shared objectives is key. But that’s our latest – I would characterize that as our number one legislated priority. We have some activities underway in Missouri as well, and those are important. They are also reflective of important priorities, but it’s fair to say that the prospects in the Missouri legislature this year in general for legislation are more challenged. And there – I think there is nearly the double-digit number of state legislators running for a statewide office, it’s an election year. So, the overall dynamics in Missouri are less likely to lead to legislation. But I would also say that there is maybe a lower priority there. Very constructive legislative actions taken in Missouri the last couple of years with the extension of pieces, some other changes to piece of the addition of the property tax rider. So, items [ph], our relative priorities on the Kansas side and the mechanisms that we have talked about there.

And just to clarify, Kirk was referring to a reduction in the rate of dividend growth, not a reduction in there. So, we had a 5%, we raised our dividend growth 5% last quarter, consistent with the midpoint of our earnings growth rate range. I think you raised a good question, just stepping back around the mix of what’s your dividend payout ratio as you think about the overall funding for your capital plan. We have described that we don’t see a need to issue equity through 2026. So, I think that in particular, becomes a factor that our peer companies are issuing equity seek to balance and what’s the right payout ratio or otherwise. We described the target payout ratio of 60% to 70%. That remains our payout ratio, but being thoughtful about our – the growth rate in our dividend as our earnings grow and keeping those in tandem and thinking about that payout range is probably how we are considering.

So, we won’t give the exact number on. Obviously, those things go in tandem. You can’t – if we raised our capital plan, a very significant amount you have to think about the funding approach to that. And the governor is really what Kirk described earlier. We look at our credit ratios and maintaining the ratios we look at in the Moody’s threshold. So, as we consider changes to our capital plan, there is always room in that capital plan and just a matter of how significant the changes would be. But in general, we described with the capital plan we have, even with the changes we have implemented that were reaffirmed that we don’t expect the issue equity through 2026. We made major changes in the capital plan. We would be looking at the funding approach at the same time.

Well, again, I would describe, we don’t see in our capital plan and need to issue equity through 2026. So, I think you are probably getting ahead of the aim a little bit with that question. I think what we would – it relates to the question of it’s not formulaic, but the discussions we are having in Kansas particular about how do we fund electric infrastructure investment to support economic development and growth. A lot of that comes down to T&D investment and having that in place and where you put that and how you put that in place. So, it will be much more tackle around the timing and the positioning of where we make some of those investments to support the growth. So, it’s not equivalent to adding a huge new solar farm or big new gas plant where you got orders of magnitude that drive the kind of changes you may be discussing. So, we will look at that on an integrated basis, but we are pretty thoughtful about how we approach our financing plan and how we think about the timetable for when we issue equity. So, I think your question is signaling some kind of major change. I wouldn’t think about it that way. I would really think about how we are going to be funding and where we are getting the opportunities to fund this, particularly T&D and some good work to support economic development and growth in Kansas. That’s what we are working towards with our stakeholders.

Thank you.

Good morning Paul.

I will say on what rates negotiated of course, very large loads get special contracts. I think the best way to describe it, we actually have a waterfall that goes through 2023 to 2024, so we show what the overall impact of weather and demand is in that. So, it’s part of the improvement that we see in the trajectory from ‘23 to ‘24. But in general, the industrial load, while it does help and drives incremental cost savings and opportunities, it doesn’t have the same level of impact as residential and commercial because of the rate structure. But to get a good flavor of how that translates because we give the growth rate estimate and the impact on EPS and that, I think it’s a waterfall slide in the back half of the document. So, we can walk through that with you offline just to see how that translates. But it’s a – any savings that are generated, of course, through rate cases are going to be shared. So, if you – one of the best thing as I described in my note, the best way to keep rates affordable through growth. And that affordability gain in the near-term, it can have some EPS impact. But we are going to have a regular cadence of rate cases now. That’s the great benefit of it is that’s what’s going to keep rates affordable for our customers, of course, that gets shared.

Thank you.

Thank you, Valerie and thanks everyone for your interest and time this morning. That concludes the call today. Thank you.