David Grzebinski
Kirby Corporation (KEX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, good morning, Jack.

No, what happened Jack is, we stepped into a competitor's shipyard contract. They were, they were building some barges in some boats, they needed to not do that and we were able to step in and get a good deal with the shipyard. So those boats and barges, it's basically two boats with about thrusting units that go with those, and then four barges. So we stepped into those that contract for them. It was kind of underway and the competitor couldn't.

So we stepped in to - in it and it's a good price. We were happy with it. Do we want building? No. New construction doesn't make sense now. We were able to get a decent price on these and so we stepped into it. So that's part of that growth CapEx and then we're doing some things in C&I for KDS, it's helping a little bit, but the biggest part of our CapEx, as is maintenance CapEx. We've talked about the maintenance bubble, it's real. It's real for the industry, it's real for us. So our CapEx is still pretty elevated with the maintenance side of things.

Yes, it's significant. It's - in any given day, we'll have 80 barges out, and I think for the industry, this is going to be a big year, it could be on the order of - well, I know it's north of 600 and maybe as high as 1,000 for this year. So it's a big number. I actually think this is positive for a number of reasons.

One, it helps tight up utility, but more importantly, people are busy maintaining their fleet. They're going to put their cash to that instead of going in to build new. It doesn't make sense to build new. So it - , I think it actually helps the whole supply picture quite a bit, but it is a - it's a known bubble and, the good news is our customers understand that. They're sophisticated, they get it, they know what's going on.

And inflation's not helping this either, as you might imagine. Shipyards used to be, Jack, they'd run three shifts. Three shifts. Now a number of them can only crew two shifts and, shipyard costs have gone up, steel costs are going up, labor costs are very high. So all that's factoring into keeping that supply in check, and I think that continues through '25 to be honest. Yes.

Absolutely. I think, what we've heard, there's only about 20 barges, maybe 25 on dock for 2024. It's, I would imagine - don't have good data on retirements, but I could imagine, you bring something into the shipyard and you see it's going to cost you a heck of a lot, you just soon retire it if it's only got, five, five years left of its life. So we should see attrition of, my guess is 50 to 150 barges this year, so we should have a net decline this year in supply.

Hi, thanks, Jack.

Yes. No, thanks, thanks for the question, Ben. Look, on the C&I side, there's really three parts to it. There's, on-highway and marine repair, and then there is power generation. So I'd say the first two, marine repair and on-highway really are going to move with the economy, right? We see a little pullback on-highway trucking space, you saw one of the truckers go bankrupt last year. We have seen a little pullback, that's in our guidance to - for 2024.

On marine, marine repair, we do both commercial marine and pleasure craft. With it being an election year, we're seeing a little pullback in pleasure craft, but commercial marine repair is pretty strong, as you would expect, as you hear us talk about maintaining our vessels.

And then - but the real secular growth story is in power generation. I think it's pretty obvious, everybody needs power 24/7 now. Every business, runs using computing power. I think AI and machine learning's only adding to that demand. So we're seeing secular growth in our - on our power generation side. As you know, we provide backup power to places like the New York Stock Exchange, JP Morgan and others, as well as retail environments like Walmart, Costco, Target and the like, as well rentals too, we rent power out. So, it's - we're seeing a lot of growth there. We manufacture some of that equipment. So it's - it helps the manufacturing as well as the distribution side and that's more of a secular growth story.

Absolutely. Yes, absolutely. Oil and gas is still going to cycle. Overall, you'll see, '24 versus '23, we're seeing that revenue and D&S is going to be down to - flat to slightly down. And that's really all based on oil and gas. C&I is offsetting it, but you've - I'm sure you've heard calls on the oilfield side, whether it's pressure pumpers or E&P or service companies, they're all looking for a down year, '24 over '23. That that's in our guidance, and that's why you're seeing kind of flattish revenue for D&S. Really the strength of C&I is making that look not as bad.

Yes, well, I mean our preference would be Inland Marine. If we're going to grow anywhere, it would be in Inland Marine, would be our preference. That said, Coastal's going to be a great five-year story here. We are - supply and demand are in balance now. We're - as you saw in our prepared remarks, we saw spot prices up year-over-year in the mid-30% range and term contracts up in the mid-20% - or low-20% range.

That's going to continue in '25, '26, probably into '27 easily. We need it. The rates have been low. We've been bouncing along in our Coastal business at breakeven. This year for '24, we're going to be kind of mid-single-digits, maybe even get to the high-single-digits in terms of operating income margins, and really, that should continue because of the supply picture.

As you know, these vessels are very expensive. 185,000 barrel unit we built 5 years ago for $80 million, right now if you were to build that, it would be $130 million, $135 million to build it, and nobody's got one on the books. And even if they did, you wouldn't get it until 2027. So we're very enthusiastic about the Coastal business. Does that mean we want to go out and speculatively build? Absolutely not. I mean, we're - there may be some contracts coming from customers that we would get that, but we're not going to go.

And just to comment on the - on our fleet. Our actual high, I think, was 59 barges, not 80, but we took out a lot of wire barges, wire. The customer demand for wire barges was low, they were older. We've got a much higher quality fleet now. And the other thing, just in terms of construct there, what happened to that business was the ban on exporting crude was lifted.

So, one point, we had 17 barges moving crude in the coastwise business, now we got zero, and that happened all across the industry. And that's why we've been in a protracted downturn in that business. And all that excess supply has been retired and it's in balance now and we're pretty excited about it, Yes.

Yes, I - no, I think we're still one of the largest players in this space. On a barrel volume basis, we're probably one or two. There is - two of our competitors are trying to get together in a joint venture, so, that we'll see what that brings, but we're still one or two in the market in terms of size. So we've got the critical mass, and as it's the same customers that we deal with on the Inland side. So we have that scale, just because our commercial team deals and our bidding team deals with the major customers every day, and it's the same group, whether it's Coastal or Inland.

Yes, thanks for saying that. I mean, Joe, he's an institution, he's basically been the father of our business for 46 years, and grew it from nothing into what it is today. He'll be missed. Thanks, Ben.

Yes, and the short answer is, yes, we will definitely get to the mid-20s. But let me give some color, Ken. I think it's a great question. The average for the fourth quarter was in the high teens. December was an okay weather month, so we touched that 20%. First quarter is always the worst weather, so we're anticipating margins will dip back down into the high teens in the first quarter because of the weather, by the second and third will be probably north of 20. Fourth quarter, we'll have to see, that's always a tough weather months.

I - the way I look at margins, Ken, is, look, we will be up year-over-year 300 basis points to 400 basis points in margin. Because of weather, high water, low water, hurricanes, lock closures, it's just hard to get any one quarters too specific, but my view is that the whole entity will be up 300 basis points to 400 basis points. And more importantly, as, I - we anticipate the same kind of improvement in that order of magnitude in '25. It's a - this is a runway and it should take several years to play out.

Now in terms of, pricing rolling over or even flattening, we didn't see that. Spot prices year-over-year in Inland were up 15% to 18%, term pricing was up 7% to 9% year-over-year. So there's actually a healthy gap between spot and term. You want spot above term, which what we see, it's, a pretty good gap. And then even sequentially, we saw from third to fourth quarter, spot pricing was up 2% to 5%. So, we didn't see any flattening.

Look, pricing needs to continue to go up. We're offsetting inflation, we're trying to get returns back up to where, we can get a return on our invested capital. And we're still a long way away from justifying new builds. So it - it's very constructive. I think you'll see the margin progression of 300 basis points to 400 basis points up this year, and then perhaps something similar in 2025.

And just, I think that's fair. We - I mean, you heard our term contracts were up in the high-single-digit 7% and 9%.

So that's going to roll through this year and, it'll progress.

No, I didn't. I better not. I shouldn't, or my attorney will - he'll kick me.

Yes, no, it's gotten a lot better, Ken, for sure. You saw our deliveries, well, probably infer, our deliveries in the fourth quarter were pretty good out of our manufacturing facility. We were having problems with electronic componentry and one-off items holding up all series of equipment. That's kind of worked its way out. What's really happening now is long lead time. Engine packages, for example, if we were to order engines today, we wouldn't get them until kind of mid '25.

So that's, the big componentry is the problem, that the lead times on engines in particular have been a problem, and it's really about boundary constraints in the engine world, but it's just long lead times. So we're still dealing with that. If that was compressed, we would deliver better results. If we could get engines quicker, particularly on C&I for power generation, Ken, we, we're seeing a lot of demand for backup power and, if the engine packages could flow quicker, we'd have better numbers in D&S for 2024.

Yes, on the margins, it depends on weather in December, right? But yes, I mean, directionally if we saw a mild December, I think, absolutely we'd be close to that number, yes.

On the supply chain, we're - look, we use - it's best for me not to name engine - different engine companies, but we use all, all kinds of different engines and they're seeing it, whether it's a German-based engine company or U.S.-based engine company, they're all - have the same issues in terms of foundries producing blocks and getting it through. There's not much we can do, it's their supply chain. We're working with them, trying to pre-order stuff and work that side of the thing.

But look, they're working hard to get the engines, they want to sell as many as they can as well. So, we're working on it with them, some of it's out of our control. We're trying to do better job planning as you would expect.

Thanks, Ken.

Yes, I'll take those in kind of reverse order. I do believe we can get to the high 20s in margin. We'll see, but inflation is real. We - we're seeing it even, when you listen to the pundits out there. That we're still seeing inflation not deflation. I would tell you, maintenance is - maintenance inflation has gone up a lot. We talked a little bit about the shipyards having a hard time getting labor. Steel prices haven't abated at all. In our ecosystem, mariners are short, critically short across the entire industry.

Fortunately, we have our own school where we train mariners, but we're still, really tight on crewing. So you're - we're seeing labor inflation, everybody's seeing it. Things like paint and steel and all of that, we're still seeing inflation. Believe it or not, rental cars are - we do a lot of crew moves and rental car inflation has hit us. So we're still offsetting that. I think everybody's been a little frustrated with the pace of our margin improvement, certainly us. We would like to have improved it faster, but it's really about this inflation and trying to offset it.

Look, our customers are experiencing the same thing, they have inflation in their refineries and then at chemical plants, they're fighting, steel cost, the supply chain issues, and of course, labor costs. So, our sophisticated customers definitely understand it. They understand we're fighting inflation. We are getting some real price increases, but we need it to get to prices that could justify, replacement capacity. But it's a long rambling response, Jon, sorry, but inflation is there. But, the fundamentals are such that we're going to get to the mid-20s at some point, and barring anything unforeseen, we should get to the high 20s.

Yes, well, I'll let Raj chime in here a bit too. We still have liquidity available on our revolver and our debt-to-EBITDA is fine. We've got plenty of borrowing capacity, and to your point, we do - we're going to have a lot of free cash flow this year and we've been aggressive buying our stock. We like our stock where it's at. Particularly when we look at, the next three to five years, it's going to be - it's going to be a good run, so we're happy to buy back our stock. That said, we always like those inland acquisitions, but we're not going to lose our price discipline. We'll be very disciplined, they're hard to predict.

We did pick up, we bought some barges from a competitor last year as well. We'll look for those one-offs. Predicting a big deal, that's a lot harder. I would just tell you, we're going to stay disciplined. We think we've got good borrowing capacity in any event, and, we also like our stock, but Raj, you want to add anything?

Thanks, Jon.

Hi, good morning, Greg.

No, I mean, we - you notice this is not numeric and we're not giving quarterly, we debated a long time about whether we should give number but, I think in the kind of the environment, that there's a lot of moving pieces, we thought it would be good to give a little more specificity on it.

Just at the outset of this year, I don't think, we're going to give quarterly guidance or anything like that or even a numerical EPS. It's just kind of - we wanted to set kind of the range for the year, given everything we're seeing both at D&S and Marine.

Yes, I mean, delay days were up a lot, as you heard, sequentially.

It's hard to quantify it, it's - there's so many moving pieces. So far in January has been brutal at the same - you'll remember, first quarter of '23 was a really tough quarter from a weather delay. January is as bad as last year. We'll see what February brings, it's hard to predict, but it has a real impact. I mean, you see our margins dip down in - usually in the fourth quarter and the first quarter because of weather. It can be anywhere from a couple of hundred basis points in that range, but, it's really hard to - to say.

As Greg, we have time charters and we have contracts of affreightment and those contracts of affreightment, hurt us a little bit in the winter weather, but they help us a lot in the summer, summer weather. I would also say that, is that - with respect to the first quarter, one of the things we did see and that's reflected in our guidance here, is there was a freeze and it impacted some of the refineries and chemical plants in January and they're still coming out of that. So, that - it's all, it's all in there, but --

Yes, and that's why we kind of look at it from - trying to rebase everybody here to look at it from a year-over-year for the whole year average because there's so many moving parts with weather, lock delays, hurricanes. Hopefully, we don't have a hurricane this year but lots of moving parts. So I hope that helps, Greg, I wish I could be --

Yes, look, in the fourth quarter we saw the chemical industry pull back a little bit, the volumes pulled back a little bit. We haven't seen China re-emerge in terms of chemical demand, back to where they used to be. So, if that started in earnest again, it would just help volumes.

As we move a lot of chemicals on the inland waterways and, it'd just be very constructive for us to see some growth in that end if it came back. Now we are seeing in January, a little uptick in chemical movements, but, it's kind of one of the things on the margin that could help us and get us closer to that high-end of the range.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yes. No, I - this isn't precise, but we think there are only 24 or 25 liquid barges on order for 2024 delivery. Certainly, nobody's panicked. I think I referenced this in some earlier comments, but most of our competitors and including us, we're very busy just trying to maintain our fleet with this maintenance bubble that's hitting us.

So that's soaking up a lot of, a lot of capital for - in finances for a lot of our competitors including us. I mean, we're spending a lot more. You heard our maintenance CapEx is up a lot in the last couple of years. So nobody is really panicking and trying to go out and build any new equipment right now. It's, everybody's, pretty absorbed and disciplined right now just trying to keep their current fleet running.

Yes, look, mariners are short across the board. Whether it's in the charter fleet, or owned fleets. We operate probably 290 inland towboats and 28, 27 offshore. Our charter fleet, we don't get too specific on it, but it's, in the 60 range. We're seeing labor pressure across the board and just getting qualified mariners - I think what happened is kind of interesting, people - that, there was a trucker shortage and there was lot of shortages of labor and a lot of people kind of moved away from maybe the marine side.

They're maybe moving back now, but it's tough to find qualified mariners. That's why we have our own school. It, that it's a very skilled set of - well, it's a high set of skills to push a football field full of barges with a towboat on a river that's moving with wind blowing.

These are highly skilled individuals, including the tanker men and the deck hands on that. So yes, I'm rambling a bit here, Greg. Sorry about that, but we are seeing labor pressure both on the charter side and on the owned side. It's just, just a shortage of them. We're trying to train them as fast as we can, but it takes a while to train for these very specific tasks that are very highly skilled.

No, I mean crewing is always a bit of a challenge. Look, I mean living on a boat is, it's a different lifestyle, right? I mean, some of our guys worked 30 on and then 30 off, or two weeks on, one week off, not being home every night, it is a challenge. So, it's a specific lifestyle that's hard to fill, just because you're away from home and family a lot, so there's that natural tension away from it, from a kind of a life balance standpoint.

That said, we do pay well, I think, our industry plays really, really well. We recruit in high schools. Last year, we hired 300 new deck mariners and, we're doing everything we can. I think it solves itself. We will keep running as a business, but, that is part of the reasons rates have to go up, Greg, to your point.

All right. Thank you.