Dennis Degner
Range Resources Corporation (RRC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Good morning, Doug. I think, the way you’ve asked the question is something, we’ve given a lot of conversation and thought to over the past several weeks. We like the flexibility, and I know we’ve used that word a lot in our prepared remarks today, but we like the flexibility this program sets up.

If you look back for our ability to basically shape the curve of when our wells will turn in line this year, when you look at the past several years, there have been times when clearly we’ve chosen to look at shut-in economics and we’ve looked at dry gas portions of the field and we know where, let’s just say, that gas curtailment could take place and have a commensurate cost reduction that goes along with it, while supporting, really, our price realization uplift associated with our NGLs in the wet side of it.

So as we look kind of on the program going forward in the inventory build that would support our setup for 2025, we see that we’ll have the flexibility to basically adjust timing for turning lines based upon what the macro is telling us and what the basin fundamentals are looking like.

With our transport and the ability to get gas, 80% of our gas out of the basin and virtually 100% of our NGLs out, it does change the calculus for us quite a bit, but we will remain absolutely very sensitive given the flexibility that we’ve baked in and the cash flow that the business will throw off this year. We like our flexibility to shape those turning lines with what makes sense for the business.

Well, I think, as we look at M&A, our view today isn’t a whole lot different than the way we’ve looked at it in the past. We know what some of the in-basin opportunities look like. Whatever we would embrace from an M&A standpoint, it has to make -- it has look a lot like Range and it has to make Range a better company and keep us on the path of the objectives that we’ve been talking about kind of quarter-after-quarter and somewhat staying the course.

When you look at the team that we’ve put in place, the successes they’ve been able to accomplish, there’s no doubt the capital efficiency that Range has harvested is something that we think could be replicated, if you will, in other parts of the basin.

But we also know that, again, we remain focused on the large inventory that we have and we haven’t even talked about the inventory below the Marcellus with the Utica or even the upper Devonian.

So, in a lot of ways, we feel like we can take this, what we’re doing today, replicate it year-after-year and decade-after-decade and not have to necessarily look at an M&A possibility to further, let’s just say, enhance capital efficiency.

But size and scale is something that certainly we’ve been asked about a number of times and it’s a common question and there could be some positive benefits, whether it’s leveraging cost of services, let’s just say, combining transport and other processing and gathering type cost structures.

So, we see that there are those opportunities, but when you look, as you pointed out, Doug, where we’re at with some of our metrics, it would have to look a lot like Range or we go the other way. So, we like where we’re at. We feel like we’ve got the team and the inventory, as Mark and I both touched on today, to kind of keep forwarding the path that we’re on.

Thanks, Doug.

Yeah. Good morning, Paul. I think a good way to think about how that capital would get deployed would be really fairly evenly through the balance of the year. We’re talking about small capital and really small projects in the grander scheme of things, but the majority of that’s going to be on the water infrastructure build out.

It allows us, as we’ve continued to get to this place where we’ve got 1,500 producing drilled and completed wells, you can imagine we’ve moved farther and farther from our core water infrastructure that we invested in a little over a decade ago now at this point.

And so as we’re building that out through the balance of this year, we’ll be able to start to utilize it in the second half or the back half of the year. So I would expect that expenditure component or that bucket of spend to really be more spread across fairly evenly through the year.

Yeah. Paul, I think, this is one of the, I’ll go back to kind of the fundamental thought, it really gets back to what’s the macro and the basin fundamentals, international macro, what is -- what do we -- what signals are we seeing from the market that would suggest how we utilize that in-process inventory.

So I know we keep using the word flexibility, but we do believe that that’s the right setup for us. It’ll either allow us to think about getting a head start into 2025, depending upon what pricing looks like or it allows us to be even more capital efficient through that 2025 program, as maybe I think you’re pointing out. We could utilize that inventory without having to be in a blowdown mode, like, we’ve seen maybe from some other reports.

Awesome. Thanks, Paul.

Good morning, Jake.

Could you repeat the question one more time for me?

Okay. Thanks, Jake. Sorry about that, it was a little hard to hear on my end. I think as a good way of thinking about that inventory at the year end, it will be a bit of a mix. So as you can imagine, by retaining, we’ve got a really lean program. And so by having two horizontal rigs that we’re going to maintain through the balance of the year, of which we would need those for a maintenance level type program for 2025, some of the inventory that gets generated, they’re horizontal wells that basically are not getting completed, but they’ll be ready for completion right out of the gates to start the year. And some of this spin that we’ve outlined, it is retaining our keeping good efficiencies with our one dedicated frac crew.

So if you think about it, it’s kind of a low level program where two rigs are generating enough activity for that one base level frac crew day-in and day-out, and it’s really as a function of the efficiencies that we’ve talked about really through our prepared remarks, 10% improvement in frac stages per day last year, and then of course, the 38% improvement on daily drill footage on the drilling side. So it’s kind of all of a byproduct of that, but we’ll have some extra fracs that we’ll complete this year, but there will be, let’s just say, in composite, there’s going to be somewhere between seven to 10 wells in total aggregate that will basically on an equivalent basis be carried into next year.

Well, Jake, I think, the way we would think about it is, is we put that framework in there from a land spend and we view it as an opportunistic kind of view. When you think about 2023 and I’ll kind of back up for a half a second, if you look at 2023 at this very time a year ago, we were communicating a plan that had an average lateral length of 10,500 feet. But by the time we got to the end of the year, and you look at the turning lines and the drilling activity, the average was just under 13,000 feet.

So by nature of what we did through the year by extending laterals, some of that resulted in some opportunistic, we’ll call it, open track leasing that we deployed through the year to extend those laterals, provide some of our most capital efficient wells in the numbers that we report on.

So this is a way of framing it where we think we can do this year-over-year in a lot of portions of our field, but we also have a lot of it that’s also secured that’s HPP as well. So we see line of sight for the next few years to continue to do this, and there’s also leasing opportunities, we’ll just say within the heart of the field that we haven’t fully expanded on, whether it’s some of the state parks or other areas that could also provide future opportunities for us. So we see a decent runway here yet.

Thanks, Jake.

Yeah. Good morning, Michael. I think I’d start this by kind of saying, look, the water infrastructure is, we’ve had a very low, I’ll just say ongoing investment into the water infrastructure, but as an example, it’s been a significant piece of our story that supports our low capital efficiency.

So this felt like the right time for us to invest in expanding of that infrastructure as we think about what the future could hold for additional activity, again, as we continue to move back to pads with existing infrastructure, really supports, again, that low cost dollar per foot or dollar per barrel type basis. And quite honestly, it supports recycling of water from other producers, which is a key component for low cost water to our doorstep on location, if you will.

I think the other part from a land perspective, I think, we just talked about it a little bit, but we kind of see some of this as lease management, but also its overall allowing us to extend these laterals and the ability to deliver some of our most capital efficient wells.

The additional activity that’s in that bucket, that’s really just not picking up three rigs going down to one at the end of the year and then trying to pick those other two rigs up in January. It’s utilizing existing drilling rigs. We’ve got relationships with these service partners that deliver some of our best efficiencies, which we’ve highlighted this past year.

We couldn’t be happier with the direction that we’ve been moving with both the crews, the service partners and our team. It feels like this is the right time to continue to maintain that momentum as you think about 2025.

And look, we can make decisions to make changes based upon what the setup is for 2025, but we’ve got one base frack crew and one drilling rig alone will not supply enough, we’ll just say, wells, to keep that one frack crew busy. So this is a very lean program, something that we’ve reinforced now time and time again.

But I think when you look at also some of the investments we’re making now, I guess, the other part would be, this probably in a lot of ways, depending upon how you think about 2025 and 2026, could be lower cost investments at this moment versus what we could see in the future years. And so we feel like it’s a good window, these are low dollars in a grander scheme of the overall value of the program and we think it sets up a really nice story. I’ll hand it over to Mark real quick.

Yeah. We’ve actually seen good repeatable performance out of the wells, no issues on the operational front from a -- I’ll just say the ability to complete these wells. Also, production facilities at the surface haven’t, we’ve upgraded some of our design over the course of time, but what we haven’t done, Michael, is tried to design them for peak production.

So, we keep the infrastructure fully utilized and we basically keep our cost structure as low as possible by doing so. So, I think, we have the ability to continue to do this for quite a while, so it’s pretty encouraging the way we’ve set up the design.

So, it keeps us from basically spending, I think, too much money inefficiently on the facility design by trying to reach that peak performance out of the gates, knowing that, whether it’s in the months that follow, we’re going to basically be well within the limitations of that equipment.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you.

Yeah. Good morning, Noel. I think I would start off by saying it’s early and it’s tough to kind of frame, I think, at this point what the math and the calculus could really look like. I do think that you’ve probably heard me say this in the past when service costs have come up and I do think that this environment that we’re in could look and feel a little different than past cycles where you have traditionally, let’s say, commodity prices up, service costs up, commodity prices down, service costs down.

I think it’ll be a blend of those and I think we’ve already seen that through the balance of 2023 where we’ve seen relief in areas like tubular goods, as an example, and maybe some of the other consumables that we’ve had or that we utilize in some services, but as you would imagine, on the electric fracturing fleet side, those fleets are in very high utilization.

So it’s certainly created its unique demand, if you will. So drilling rigs, we’ve all coalesced to kind of a similar super spec rig configuration where we’re all drilling along laterals across multiple basins and so that’s provided, even though some rigs will certainly could come out of the mix based upon some of the recent reporting, I would expect there to be some relief potentially there.

But it’s got to play out with some other rigs that potentially drop out of the mix in the next three months to six months. I think we look at last year as a trend. It took a while for us to see some relief and it probably came more at the mid-year point than it did in Q1.

So could see some relief, but I think it’s still early and know that as you look at our capital efficiency numbers and really just the overall cost per foot values that we’ve reported in the past, because of our strong relationships in history with our service providers and our service partners, know that we’ll look to basically take opportunities when we can to work together, reduce costs, because we know at some point in time it will probably go the other way.

Yeah. A good question is something we talk about, as you can imagine, pretty frequently here in the shop. And I think, we basically have highlighted something on slide 19 we think is worth kind of pointing out. I think when you start to think about LNG demand that’s going to be coming online through the balance of the between now and 2028, when you look at ResCoM Industrial [ph], you look at exports to Mexico remain really resilient.

You start to factor all of that in and plus power burn what we saw last year. In my mind, a little bit of an underappreciated story on the repeatability of that as you start to see at times underperformance by some of the other alternative power sources. So when you start to factor all of that in, we really see that you’ve got to get to 126 BCF, 125 BCF of overall demand by 2028, and where we stand today, there’s a significant delta there.

And so LNG is going to play a role in this, but LNG is not going to be the only factor as you start to consider demand growth on the go forward. We think infrastructure is going to need to play a really key part to this and so whether it’s advancing permit reform or other conversations around utilization and brownfield expansions, it’s going to be key to meet some of this growing demand and I haven’t even touched on coal retirements and other sources.

When you look at some of the infrastructure that’s going in from a manufacturing standpoint is associated with some of the chip development and other processes. So we kind of see there’s a real opportunity for us to continue to move toward trading like a global commodity and less being influenced by weather alone.

Thank you, Noel.

I’d like to thank everyone for joining us on the call this morning and walking through the results from Q4 and the plan that we have ahead. If you have any questions, feel free to follow up with our Investor Relations team. We’ll see you in the next quarter. Thank you.