Dennis Mathew
Altice USA, Inc. (ATUS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Michael. I hope you are well. In terms of the broadband headwinds, as we had mentioned early in the quarter last year, we expected to see some headwinds and that's exactly what we saw. We saw some of the competition early in the quarter really outspending us in advertising and marketing, particularly in that October and November timeframe, effectively reducing our share of voice in the market.

And we also saw some more aggressive promotions during key mobile switching windows and really more aggressive offers driving existing mobile customers to low-end data plans particularly when you look at some of the fixed wireless providers. We also saw some impact in the West, as we think about the fiber over builders in the back half of the year, more fiber build activity. I think the last time I commented on this, we were at about 30% to 35% overbuilt. Now we're at about 40%, and some fairly aggressive offers in the market.

That all being said, I'm very excited about our Optimum market structure and local leadership that we've put in place. And these teams are just coming online and really starting to share some insightful feedback with us in terms of competitive landscape and really informing how we can compete much more effectively at a hyper local level. I think we're very well-positioned. Optimum Complete continues to perform very well. We've seen a 3x increase in mobile attach since we've launched Optimum Complete.

We are really excited about the new Chief Marketing Officer that we brought on Board, and she's helping us with hyper local go-to-market playbooks so that we can compete more effectively in our new Optimum market areas that we've established. And so, you're going to see more of those playbooks come online and we're also planning to really do a better job of telling our story from a brand and just an overall marketing perspective.

On the pricing side, as you saw, we've made some adjustments and we've talked about this pricing evolution and the pricing strategy is really to address what our customers are telling us. They've told us they want simplicity, transparency, predictability. They want the right value for what they're paying. And we believe that the new structure will do just that. And I think Marc mentioned, some of it is tied to just rightsizing folks.

Over a 100,000 customers received a speed upgrade tied to this evolution, and we're seeing improved churn, fewer calls from those customers and that journey is going to continue. We're also leveraging AI, so that we can equip our teams in our call centers, both care and retention, so that when an existing customer calls, we can right size them and put them into the right packages and make sure that they're getting the right value. And this is actually helping us reduce ARPU erosion while not sacrificing our ability to save customers.

And so, we're continuing to drive that strategy forward and we believe that long-term this will help us actually grow ARPU and really helping our mission to stabilize and ultimately drive customer revenue and cash flow growth.

You’re welcome.

Ben, thanks. Hope you're doing well. Let me take the fiber question and then I'll throw it back over to Marc to expand a bit more on the front book, back book and the pricing. But, our fiber strategy, we remain committed to fiber. As we mentioned, we're going to deliver 3 million homes passed, primarily in the East. We're excited about having these homes and the performance of the customers that were able to add on to that network improved ARPU trends, improved churn, improve customer satisfaction. We have customers that are just incredibly excited and thrilled with the performance of that network.

And so, we want to lean in and focus on driving more customers to that network. And that's going to be the mission for this year. We're prioritizing migrations in particular. We've been on that journey. We've been able to, if you look year-over-year in terms of fiber additions, we've accelerated by 1.7x and there's more room to grow. We've been doing an exhaustive audit of the migration process and as we brought on as my new CTIO organization and field organization, they've identified a whole host of opportunities to improve the process, make it more efficient and help us accelerate our fiber migrations.

And so, there are some systems and process issues that we need to resolve over the next couple of months. But I'm confident as we enter into late Q2 and the second half, we're going to be able to accelerate. And then, we're excited about new build as well. And so as we think about just capital intensity and how we're going to spend capital and where the best return is, we're really fortunate to have four of the fastest growing markets in our footprint. And we've had to do some work in terms of streamlining our ability to identify, approve and execute new build and I think we're going to start seeing some of the benefits of that and be able to go faster as we enter into this year.

And so, that's going to be a huge priority for us as well. And we're going to look to prioritize migrations and new build, while continuing to have a balanced approach in building fiber in the East. Marc?

Thanks, John. I'll take the mobile piece and then Marc, welcome to chime in on the pricing and ARPU elements. But mobile, we're very pleased with the transformation and the acceleration. This has really been inspecting and optimizing every area of the business. We've transformed our retail centers into sales centers and we've really prioritized, as we've said, to be the connectivity provider of choice, which includes broadband and mobile. And so, we've updated our compensation plans. We've updated our sales goals. We've transformed performance management and participation, Optimum Complete and including that as an offer and a package has been really well received both by our frontline teams as well as our customers.

And so, as I think about this year, I think about continuing to drive acceleration and growth in that space. I think we've seen others, some of our peers set the standard in terms of net additions per quarter and customer penetration of their base. And I think those are all achievable long-term and that's the journey that we're on.

And so, the 8x acceleration, we're going to continue to drive that across the business. And, I think we're at 7% mobile penetration of our base today. I think there's more opportunity. I'm particularly excited as Marc, I believe mentioned 20% annualized churn reduction with mobile. And so, there's lots of reasons to continue to drive mobile and will continue to drive acceleration throughout the year. Marc?

Jessica, I hope you're well. I'll take the sports JV question and Marc, if you want to talk a little bit about news and advertising. I think I've said this before, but unfortunately I'll reiterate that I really do think that the model is broken and it's really challenging when you think about the fact that viewership is that all-time lows on linear traditional video and yet rates are at all-time highs.

And so, I think we as distributors really do need to work with our partners to put the customer back in the center and make sure that they're getting the right value. And so, as we have these conversations and negotiations, that's exactly what we're trying to do. We're trying to really push hard and make sure that we've got, we're fighting for our customers in terms of rate.

Historically for legacy process has been to include channels with extremely low viewership bundled in with channels with high viewership, it's just not the right approach and inflexible packages. And so, we're fighting for more flexibility as well, so that our consumers can ultimately have the types of bundles and packages that they're looking for.

And then as these direct to consumer solutions continue to become available, having those conversations, making sure that they're available to our customers and that they can be leveraged as part of the portfolio of solutions that we are making available. And so, these are the conversations that we're having. It really does come back to putting the customer at the center and making sure that we have the right pricing, the right packaging, the right channel lineups, the right direct-to-consumer offerings.

But, ultimately for all these solutions, you need broadband. So, it does strengthen the value of broadband and we want to be able to provide the highest quality broadband quality and price and one of the top applications leveraged on broadband is video. And so, we want to be able to make the right video solutions available and that's what's driving the consumers as they have some want to watch traditional linear video, others want streaming. We need to be able to bring that to our consumers at the right price and at the right value and those are the conversations we're having. Marc?

Craig, hope you're well. Let me let Marc jump in on the broadband ARPU question and I'll talk a little bit about mobile.

Yes. We're very happy with our mobile MVNO and our partner in having access to the largest 5G network. Our mobile margins, we're also happy that we are gross margin positive. We don't break out additional detail, but we're really happy with the performance. We continue to see acceleration as I mentioned meaningful acceleration in our sales activities also in terms of attaching lines. We've been able to grow that to now 1.5 lines and there's more upside as we just start continue to get our legs under us. We have today about 50-50 in terms of BYOD and device attach.

And so, there's opportunity there to continue to right size that and continue to lean in as we again, get our sea legs under us. And so, we're in the early inning. We're really just starting to sell accessories and insurance, but we're excited particularly about the churn benefit as I mentioned and we're excited about continuing to drive mobile as there is long-term margin expansion opportunity.

That's right. The only thing I'll add is that, as we've done with every part of the organization, we are revamping and evolving our ability to identify, deliver, execute, deliver and drive penetration of new builds. And so, as I mentioned, we have four of the fastest growing markets in our footprint. And so, these are good problems to have in terms of driving making investment decisions.

Thank you. Have a good day.