Derek Leathers
Werner Enterprises, Inc. (WERN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Bruce, thanks for the question. I’ll start on the Werner Bridge part, and then, Chris, may have a color he wants to add. But, Werner Bridge is our digital platform. We’re very excited about what that future looks like, but we’ve got a long ways to go as we continue to develop that out.

More specifically, relative to the tech stack, it’s really the transition we’ve already made and worked hard at throughout 2023 relative to getting both Reed, Werner Logistics or Werner Brokerage, I should say, as well as Intermodal on the EDGE TMS platform. That’s sort of the first major milestone in a longer journey that ultimately includes this year focusing on getting One-Way largely on the platform by end of year.

As we start to do that, we start to see opportunities for real savings with expanded visibility, better collaboration to freight across the various sides of the organization. But those are not actually in those cost savings numbers at this point because it’s early innings.

What we’re talking about here are tangible programs of diligent cost cutting up and down the P&L through the building in ways that I believe do not impact our ability to respond as the market turns. That’s probably the most important thing.

We’re late enough in the cycle that what we don’t want to do is to cut for cutting sake and then end up bringing all of those costs right back on board. That’s why we think they’re structural, they’re sustainable. It just puts us in a better position.

The cost culture here has been one that we’ve needed to address for some time. We’ve worked on it aggressively over the last year. I think we’re finally finding a rhythm and stride toward top to bottom ownership of better cost controls. And I think a crisis like this over the last year’s freight backdrop really puts us in a better position to even execute better moving forward.

Sure. I’d have to start by just pointing out that, we are -- we have less, I mean, then -- well, we’re still in the single digits on renewals that are actually closed and kind of at their end date and so it’s early, early in the bid season.

Clearly there are customers that are looking to try to take one last bite of the apple. There’s clear pressure, especially on the One-Way side of the network. But our stance is we’ve got to stay disciplined. If you look across especially this earnings season, it’s glaringly obvious that carriers cannot make a re-investable return at current rate levels.

So they’re going to be frictional. They’re going to be difficult. We’ve already indicated that we’re willing to shrink the fleet size if need be and we’ve shown that through 2023. The good news is we also have a lot of stability in the Dedicated portion of the portfolio that continues to do that hard to serve, difficult to kind of dislocate us from the business type of work and that’s going to stand up pretty well. We feel good with those relationships.

And on the One-Way side, we’re going to keep focusing on engineering the network better to gain productivity. We’re going to focus on our touchstones of Mexico cross-border, the engineered lanes that we’ve built out and just continue to do what we do really well and lean into that. That puts us in a better position relative to price as well.

Well, as we pointed out in the opening remarks, Dedicated performed very well during the course of the year. So we’re not looking to -- there’s no intentionality about trying to shrink the Dedicated fleet.

But the reality is there, too. It’s a competitive landscape. And so, as we retain -- as we remain very price disciplined on Dedicated and return focused, it’s our expectation that there could be some fleet churn in Dedicated in the first half of the year.

We already have a very robust pipeline in Dedicated and we’re pricing a considerable amount of opportunities as we speak. But the net of that is that we think that will be flat to maybe slightly up by the end of the first half with back half growth built in.

On the One-Way side, it’s a different story. It’s simply not re-investable right now. We’re not going to grow trucks in One-Way until we see more of an inflection. And as a result, overall TTS fleet numbers will go down, at least in the first half and that’s what we’ve guided to.

Yeah. Brian, great question. I promised myself I wasn’t going to try to predict a turn on this call, so I’m going to try to steer clear of that. But we’re at week 71 with net deactivations being negative, so more carriers leaving the industry than coming in.

Over the last, call it four to five weeks, it’s been very interesting, because new activations have finally kind of really fallen off the cliff. With net deactivations kind of continuing, or I should say, deactivations continuing their trend that we’ve seen for now over a year straight. So we think momentum is gaining and we’re going to see more of that going forward.

When it turns, exactly, I don’t know. What I do know is that large, well-capitalized, well-ran fleets like Werner were focused, like never before, on lowering our cost to execute, making sure that we’re grinding through the controllable while not spending too much time trying to speculate on the uncontrollable.

I’m excited about the team’s focus right now. The fact that we’ve identified going into the year 40 million of cost initiatives and we believe we’ll have great success on getting those implemented early and often as we kick off this year is exciting.

I’m real excited about the structure of the fleet going into the year, meaning that we’ve got the fleet age where we want it to be. The mix is closer to where we’ve wanted it to be than it has been in a long time, although we’d still lean more toward Dedicated given some of these opportunities close.

Logistics is continuing to grow both in volume and revenue, and that’s really an outlier across really the whole industry and gaining share, and we are finding that rhythm of all of this technology investment that we’ve been making. The best on that is still probably, to be fair, in the out years, but we’re picking up incremental gains all the time. So I’m real excited as that plays out over the course of this year.

Yeah. Good afternoon, Ken. The production gains that we’re seeing in One-Way is very much the result of disciplined engineering within our fleet designing as rates got as low as they’ve been pressed. It’s really knowing what we can do and do efficiently, doing more of that and walking away from business that we feel like no longer fits our network or doesn’t allow us to build the kind of efficiencies it takes to operate at these rate levels.

And so I think it’s largely structural and internal to us. But clearly the consumers held up probably a little better than most of us thought, despite rising interest rates, inflation and sort of other headwinds they’ve been faced with. But to answer your question, it’s part of controlling the controllable that we’re trying to work on all the time.

And then leaning into, and this is certainly a part of it, but we’ve talked several times about our Mexico cross-border franchise and really trying to lean more heavily into that. It’s a longer length of haul. It’s more efficient freight. It’s hard to do, especially on the Mexico side of the border, but it’s something we’re very good at.

Yeah. I think in this case the utilization gains aren’t necessarily a leading indicator of suddenly the market getting much better. It’s just us getting better at where we allocate our trucks, just to kind of reiterate that point.

I think what I’m looking for or looking at as it relates to what goes first or what is moving is anecdotal things. Like yes, there were winter storms across the U.S. Yes, that played a role in what we saw with spot market and other pricing opportunities in January. It also had a very negative impact on production for sure.

But the reality is, in the darkest days of this freight recession, there were hurricanes that hit with almost little to no impact on spot market pricing or project opportunities or anything else. The other thing I would look at is our comments that we talked about in the opening. But fourth quarter, peak volumes like project opportunity volumes, they were up over 20% year over year, that’s encouraging.

Now the problem is the market rate wasn’t there to support those volumes being nearly as lucrative as they would have been in prior years. But in order to get back in that game and show customers what we’re capable of and our execution qualities, we moved a lot of peak freight this fall and so that was encouraging.

I think it’s very encouraging early conversations with customers in terms of the quality of the product that we’re putting on the table. Because right now when price is such a predominant topic, it’s really more important than ever to be able to differentiate the quality of your service, the commitment that we’re putting out there and the investment we’re making back into the fleet, which we clearly showed in 2023 a willingness to do with an outsized CapEx year. Now that fleet’s where we want it, we’re ready to launch and as this inflection kind of continues to play out, I like our positioning.

Yeah. Scott, this is Derek. I mean, clearly Q4 to Q1 has historically over the last decade been a step back quarter just because of the reality of what happens in the first quarter, the combination of weather plus lower shipping volumes coming out of the holiday season, et cetera. I don’t expect that to be any different this year in terms of the fact that there will be those structural headwinds.

But in terms of getting back to that range, it’s several things and I don’t want to get too granular here, but it’s a back half goal, let’s be clear. It’s really an end-of-year goal, to be even more clear. And it takes our ability to continue to move further down this engineered path and inside of One-Way to continue a further shift into that more stable, durable, Dedicated business that has proven itself to be resilient in both good and bad markets and from a margin perspective and then executing on all of these identified cost savings that we’ve laid out.

And then the wild cards are things like the used equipment market. How does that play out over the course of the year? That’s going to be difficult. But we are -- our base case, I think, is conservative and one that we believe is achievable. If we can be at the higher end of that range, then obviously it accelerates our ability to get there.

There’s a lot of work ahead of us, but again, I’ll hit the theme one more time, but it’s about controlling the controllable. It’s been way too long with everybody waiting for something external to change and it’s about the moment is upon us now that we’ve got to change internally and we’re laser-focused on doing exactly that.

Yeah. I mean my predominant thought on that, Scott, would be I think a lot of folks, it’s a matter of when you make your move. I mean if you think about a racing analogy, it’s when do you pit versus your competitors and we clearly pitted in 2023. We spent a lot of money and had a lot of orders and a lot of builds to get our fleet where we wanted it.

There are several others that haven’t made that pit yet and they’re doing so, I believe, as 2024 plays out. It’s a big thing that we like about our positioning currently, because doing all of that fleet rotation is time-consuming. It costs money, it costs miles, it costs driver downtime and so I like our positioning.

But I think that’s what a lot of those orders are. Very few carriers in America are happy with their fleet make-up right now coming out of the COVID years. And I think you’re seeing pent-up demand. I also think it will be interesting to see how that order board plays out relative to builds, because orders are one thing, but builds are something entirely different and I just think as the year plays out, that number may come into more clarity for everyone.

Yeah. I think it’s really built on the ongoing attrition that we’re seeing across the industry. I mean, I saw a stat just last week, we’re up to 56,000 registered carriers that have went out of business completely. That’s a big number. 700,000 less CDL drivers that are sort of in circulation from where we were when this whole ramp started.

There’s just a lot more momentum behind where we’re at from an equilibrium perspective. I mentioned the storms recently being an interesting indicator that, yes, it was widespread. Yes, it was a severe storm. I’m not trying to minimize that. But kind of the immediate impact on what it did to the network shows that we’re closer to balance than we’ve been in a while.

So it’s -- I don’t think there’s one catalyst, and certainly, we’re not banking on it being the GDP-driven rebound. Our base case assumption is very neutral kind of GDP growth this year, but rather a supply-side story as it continues to exit. And obviously keeping very close eyes on replenishment of inventories, because it’s one thing to get to just a one-for-one replenishment level.

But I don’t think we’ve seen supply chains really since COVID that have simultaneously been dealing with issues in the Suez Canal, issues in the Panama Canal, the ongoing and sort of ever-present questions around West Coast ports and productivity issues there.

And I think it’s really causing some pause in the retailers of America to decide whether they want to be just in case or just in time or maybe somewhere in the middle. And if they go to the middle, even, there’s going to need to be outsized replenishment as the year plays out and we believe that plays into this as well.

Yeah. Look -- I mean, look, we’ve been consistent with our explanations around Dedicated. It has clearly held up and shown resiliency through this downturn. But that doesn’t mean there wasn’t margin compression even at Dedicated. But at a much lower level, we’re able to get the support from our customers better there, stand by us more there because of the quality and the complexity of the work we do, but even there, there’s inflationary pressures.

That’s why this cost cutting becomes so critically important. We’ve got to offset some of the underlying inflationary pressures by taking costs out elsewhere. The bulk of, obviously, the damage to the long-term TTS margin range was driven by One-Way and we’ve seen enough results already this quarter for everyone to realize just how pressured that part of the portfolio is here and everywhere else.

Well, I’ll start with the obvious, Ravi, which is I concur with everybody who’s made this statement. There’s no more room to give, but that doesn’t mean that we don’t have prior year comps to deal with and things that we’ve already digested or ingested into the network over the course of 2023 that’s going to come to roost in the first half of 2024.

So some of it has to do with prior year comps. Some of it has to do with making sort of intelligent decisions on places that we still want to have a foothold and we still want to kind of live to fight another day. And some of it is just trying to predict when, in fact, does this inflection take place. You know that we tend to be careful and thoughtful with what we say, and I believe that’s a range that we’re comfortable giving at this point. If we can exceed that range, I can assure you we’ll be doing everything we can to do so.

And then the last piece, which you already mentioned inside of your question, is we were a bit of a positive outlier on price in 2023 and that might cause more pressure on us as customers try to take a second bite of the apple. But we’re going to stay disciplined and focused as we go through this midseason because, frankly, at some of the opportunities being put forth, it is not re-investable, therefore not worth doing.

Sure. Lots to unpack there. I’ll give it a whirl. I mean, first and foremost, I think, the digital brokerage push, if that’s all you are and you’re hitching all your wagons to that horse, that’s a difficult place to be, because there’s still a lot of need for institutional know-how, personal attention, the ability to follow up and provide customer service and opportunity to meet your customers or even exceed what their expectations are and it’s hard to do all of the above with just a digital platform only. It’s a part of our portfolio. It’s not the primary focus of how we’re going to attack this market.

I think what’s really happened is, when you think about Power Only and the Brokerage role that Power Only plays, it is truly an efficiency gain for every customer that decides to purchase that product. Instead of a rainbow fleet out there that may have been getting service previously, but with a lot of labor cost absorbed by the customer to have to deal with multiple different trailers and all of the complexity that comes with that, us and others that are executing very well on Power Only have proven that there’s a better way.

And I would liken it to a lesser degree, but it’s similar to why do we like Dedicated so much more than One-Way? It’s more complex. It involves -- it’s more defensible. Well, so is the Power Only solutions that we’re growing within our Brokerage group. These are large-scale network relationships with large-scale blue-chip customers that need as frictionless of support as they can possibly get in their Brokerage environment.

And being able to offer both assets, Power Only, Dedicated, and if need be, Intermodal and Final Mile is a win for them. It makes their life easier, and I think that’s what’s putting the squeeze on folks that maybe are only playing in one end of that arena and we’re going to continue to apply that pressure every chance we get.

Yeah. Thanks, Bascome. I appreciate the question. Yeah. Clearly there’s been new competition in Dedicated and new competitors coming to sort of look for that safe haven. But coming -- pulling into the port and then knowing how to maneuver and dock inside it is two totally different things. And so our ability and expertise over decades of work in Dedicated has proven itself to not only attract new customers and new logos into the portfolio, but then retain them.

Now, we’re going to have more competitive white noise potentially on price from time-to-time in Dedicated with newer entrants into the market. But that’s why we like to work with winning customers that are winning in their space and in their vertical, because they view the supply chain as a competitive advantage, not as a cost center and they want to work with people that know what they’re doing.

And we believe we’re very good at it and we’re going to continue to lean into it. I’m excited about what that pipeline looks like right now. And yet we’re realistic, we know the win rate within that pipeline will be lower at this point that we sit at today and as we get into the first half of 2024 because of some of these competitive pressures.

But that’s simply a matter of putting more in the top end of the funnel to make sure we get what we need out of the bottom end and we’ll be -- we just got back from our annual sales meeting, and I can assure you there was no lack of clarity on what we’re looking for and how we’re going to go about it and our team’s out there working hard as we speak.

Thank you.

Yeah. And I would add a couple of thoughts to that. One thing that’s underappreciated about Dedicated is that, throughout this downturn, although we had great fleet retention and have continued to even add new logos into the mix, the reason you haven’t seen as much in truck growth is it’s very common that across multiple fleets, really across the entire network, they may be down two trucks, three trucks, five trucks, just based on customer volumes and that had mostly to do with inventory levels and the lack of replenishment.

As we get to a more normalized run rate and we look forward, the upside leverage to adding three to four trucks across 100-plus Dedicated fleets can become very compelling, because your fixed costs are essentially still what they are. You’re not adding a lot of incremental other costs other than the variable cost of running that equipment and so that’s exciting. And so Dedicated has more upside potential than people realize as the market strengthens.

And then in One-Way, I don’t want to underestimate the fact that even with only 2,700 trucks and over time that number will be smaller, the percentage of those trucks that are available for hire and nimble and can be moved right now is high. Now, I don’t necessarily love that because it means it’s not tied up with long-term valued customers under the type of arrangements that we prefer.

But the good news is they’re available and they’re free agents that can be moved around as appropriate as this market turns and they will be moved, because we’re not going to continue to run a network in One-Way at the return levels that we’re seeing today and we owe it to our shareholders and others to make sure that isn’t the case. And so, we’ll be able to respond, as you mentioned, to the One-Way market that more quickly turns. We’ll be nimble there.

Yeah. Tom, this is Derek. A couple of things there. One, we do need a One-Way fleet for a variety of reasons that may not be as obvious as only the returns. One, it’s a great entry point to get involved and engaged with a customer and show them what Werner is all about, to get them familiar with the brand, the culture, the service levels and the commitment to safety.

It also houses the Mexico cross-border franchise, which has also performed well and we’ve got to continue to focus on taking advantage of the near-shoring opportunities as they present themselves, and we’re going to continue to be prepared to do that.

We’ve increased utility in the One-Way fleet significantly, and that leads to being able to do more with less and so we don’t need the same number of trucks. And then Power Only operates in many respects within the same freight environment as One-Way and it’s really sort of a seamless movement of freight. So that also dictates.

So if I zoom out to 40,000 feet, the goal is to continue to grow Dedicated. One-Way is a great kind of launching pad for drivers to come into the network, to learn Werner, to learn the culture. It’s a great way to get to know customers and show them who we are and what we are. And at this point where we’re at in the cycle, also, I don’t want that fleet to be so small as to not be able to participate in the opportunities that are going to be ahead of us as we see the inflection in pricing both in spot and contract.

So it’s -- I’m not here to give you a number. I don’t think at this point there’s anything on our roadmap that would indicate we want to grow One-Way, but I do want to continue to free One-Way assets up to be able to play whatever position comes available in the market as the market turns.

I want to continue to have it be a landing pad for drivers that are coming into our culture and learning what Werner stands for. I want to continue to engineer further to try to push the envelope on production, but do so safely above all else. And I want to make sure that as Mexico cross-border opportunities present themselves that we’re able to respond.

And we are both in the asset and non-asset side through the significant investments we’ve made on the southern border and our cross-stock operations in Laredo be able to grow and really lean into this near-shoring as it matures, because we’re in the very early innings of that right now, but it will continue to mature and we think we’re well-positioned for those opportunities.

We won’t be at 3,000 trucks in a couple of quarters in One-Way, I can assure you, whether we’re at 2,500 or not will be determined largely by the close rate and implementation dates of Dedicated opportunities, because we’re also not at a point right now until we get returns where they belong to grow total fleet. So that will be the farm system for those Dedicated opportunities largely, and if anything, you’ll see One-Way assets decrease in size while Dedicated grows.

And historically, we’ve talked about kind of a 65-35. We’re well past that in our mindset now and we believe there’s no --we have no inhibition about Dedicated growing to be 70% of the fleet in the intermediate term.

Yeah. Thank you. I just want to thank everybody for joining us today on our fourth quarter call. I know the quarter represented a further extension of what’s been a very challenging freight environment, but we do believe capacity rightsizing is gaining momentum and inventory levels are in line, and replenishment early innings have begun.

We enter this year, and we’re focused on operational discipline and controlling the controllable. We’ll continue to identify and implement cost savings without sacrificing our ability to respond as the market improves.

Dedicated remains the core of this portfolio and Logistics share gains allow us to be more creative than ever with how our customers’ needs are going to be addressed. Power Only, cross-border Mexico and then further engineering of our One-Way lanes show promising opportunities for both top and bottomline improvements as the year plays out.

And finally, we’re committed to being good stewards of capital as we go forward this year and like the positioning of our fleet to kick off 2024. And with that, I just want to thank you all for joining our call today and spending your time with us.