Devin McGranahan
The Western Union Company (WU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi Will, it's Devin. Indeed, you are correct. One of the reasons, as Matt highlighted, that we're making this change is the real economic benefit to us is that retail to digital escalator. And as Matt highlighted, 5% of our new customers, digital customers in 2023 or prior retail customers, those customers turn out to have better retention and stronger ARPUs than customers that we acquire de novo as new to franchise digital customers. So growing and increasing our ability through omni-channel activities but the focus really is on the escalator and less on a pool of customers who live in both retail and digital. And, we think it gives -- well, it gives us a cost benefit advantage in terms of our overall CAC. And so our ability to continue to grow the digital customer base and using the retail base as a feeder is an important part of the strategy and will be reflected in our ability to continue to grow new digital customers.

It's still a highly uncertain situation. Our main settlement partner has notified us that they will not settle for us for our cash exchange, retail customers in Iraq at the end of the first quarter. That's a significant portion of our volume. And while we continue to look for alternatives to that, we really, I think, have put into the guide a reasonable outcome given the uncertainty of what may or may not transaction post March.

Andrew, it's a great question. Thank you for joining the call today. We are seeing the benefit. In fact, our business is driven by, as you know, two primary factors, overall global macroeconomic growth and by migration. And so the increased migration into North America over the last couple of years is benefiting, particularly those outbound corridors from the U.S. to certain regions in Latin America. And so we see double-digit transaction growth in those corridors as a result of the migration. There's less of that when Matt was talking about the improved transaction trends in retail in Europe, there's been less net migration into Europe over the last year or two. And so that is more of a result of kind of ongoing performance improvement enhancing the quality of our distribution network and our stronger go-to-market value proposition there.

In Mexico is the perfect corridor example where for many years, we were probably losing share U.S. to Mexico. In the last 12 months, we've returned back to growing share in that important corridor. And obviously, it's in a corridor that the Central Bank of Mexico publishes is growing in the mid- to high single digits year-over-year.

Vasu, I might slightly reframe that. We are focusing on growing revenue from our overall ecosystem strategy. And we believe that, that is an important metric to gauge our ability to return Western Union to profitable revenue growth as part of our Evolve 2025 strategy. A component of that is, in fact, growing our digital wallet which we believe will primarily benefit retention as it is a more account-based relationship and thus will drive increased revenue through lower customer churn and obviously, the increased ARPU from extended customers.

So while we still have a strong focus on growing our digital wallet, we're doing so more with a focus on our remittance business and on driving retention with our digital remittance customers by them having more of an account-based relationship which we believe will drive revenue of ancillary products and services, including interchange, including bill payment, including other services that are available digitally in the wallet that's not available in our traditional transaction cross-border remittance platform.

Tianjin [ph], one of the things we talk a lot about which is our ability to scale at cost-effective tax around the world, right? And so in some markets that are exceptionally well developed, like the U.S., the team has done a very nice job of that, what you see in the strong customer growth in the apart transaction levels that we saw last year. As we work our way around the world, increasing our capabilities to scale marketing acquisition and to do it cost effectively will be one of our priorities in 2024.

Hi Darrin, indeed we are closely monitoring that gap. And I think we've talked about three things in the past which I'll reiterate. One, our long-term aspiration is to maintain the ratio between transactions and revenue to be a 200 to 300 basis point gap as we kind of continue to evolve our business. And so our goal is to get revenue up to reach that 200 to 300 basis point gap during the duration of our Evolve 2025 strategy.

The second is the way we rolled out, particularly on the digital side but also on the retail side, our revised go-to-market strategy which was kind of on a region-by-region basis create some lumpiness as to how you see that gap close because of the effects of the new region rolling into it. As I commented on the public prepared notes, we will be lapping at least on the digital side, both the North American and European which is the preponderance of our digital business by the end of this quarter. So the acceleration in closing the GAAP will -- the GAAP closure will accelerate in the second half of this year.

And then third, we are continuing to iterate as we go across segments, geographies and channels. And so as we've always said, we compete in a lot of different places around the world. So we'll continue to optimize. But our goal really is to close that gap and to close it over the course of the duration of our strategy.

APN being payout to account. The other thing, I think, Darrin, you can look at Matt talked about the 110 basis point improvement in digital transactions year-over-year. That is the composition of our history, i.e., the accumulated book and as you know, as customers tenure in this category, retention goes up. So we've been growing new customers aggressively. But increasing the overall retention of the book which says something about the quality of the new customers and the retention in that subset of the portfolio in order to achieve that.
We've seen very -- obviously, overall volumes in the region are down but they haven't gone to zero and there's been little change in terms of the mix of retail and digital. It's predominantly a retail environment in that part of the world. We continue to monitor it but the overall region itself is relatively small relative to our total business. So we're more concerned about the lives of the people, protecting our agents, our employees and hoping that the conflict ends quickly than the economic impacts for our business.

And I would add two things to it. As you know, when we launched this program which is now 18 months into the program. We made the explicit shift which here to before, we had not managed to which was to a target LTV to CAC goal. And so we've maintained that goal throughout the program. And as either LTV or CAC adjust, we adjust accordingly in terms of our marketing spend and our ability to drive new programs into the marketplace. And so as LTV goes up, that enables us to spend more, as CAC cat goes down, that enables us to spend more. And obviously, in reverse, hopefully, that won't happen but if it did, then we would spend less.
