Dominic Ng
East West Bancorp, Inc. (EWBC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Ebrahim, good afternoon.

Well, we actually continue to look into the market and see -- to a certain extent, obviously, we all saw what happened last year that a lot of our larger peers, well, two of them were gone and then some of the other peers are having some financial difficulty or transitioning and whatnot. And so, from a competitive landscape, I think it is marginally better for East West Bank, but we have always been prudent and the reason we didn't get into trouble is because we don't try to go all out in any one particular direction.

We're always trying to look at making sure that we have a diversified portfolio. So, in terms of recruiting talent and so forth, we are very selective. We're trying to make sure that there are talents out there that have the right mindset that fit into the East West culture and also they are in the kind of like business that fit into our sweet spot and then we will bring them over, and we'll continue to be out there recruiting and looking for the right talents to join us and together with our own associate who continue to grow.

And so, we feel that 2024, we cannot predict exactly what the economy is going to be like, but we do know what East West can do, which is that our team will find a way to continue to bring new customers and we'll be able to continue to help support our existing customers. And with that, we'll be able to grow deposit, and we'll be able to grow loans, and also have meaningful fee -- diversified fee income. And that's the plan.

Good afternoon, Ben.

Good afternoon, Gary.

Also as we highlighted in the previous calls before that we don't have that many loans mature, well, neither in 2023 nor in 2024. There's very small percentage of loans coming due. So, we actually really don't have much opportunity to have too many conversation with our customers in terms of dealing with some of the challenge when it comes to refinancing and keep in mind that we have very low LTV and our portfolio is quite granular. So, I think that's the reason why our portfolio so far stands up really well versus some of the other banks.

Good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

Yeah. Well, I think it's a relatively unique product that really cater to our core Asian-American customers. And we always think that the rate is not anywhere like a sensitive like these traditional Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac type of products. So, we feel pretty good about -- even when rates start going down, the rate reduction from our home mortgages would not be going in the same proportionally higher pace like the normal products in the market.

Again, thank you all for joining our call this afternoon and we are looking forward to speaking to you again in April. Back to you, operator.