Don Zurbay
Patterson Companies, Inc. (PDCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Jason, and appreciate the comment. I think the margin journey has really been the last, I mean, you could say the last four or five years, but what we're looking at is the fact that the programs we've put in place are working, the things that we're doing we think are impactful and sustainable. And so, as you look forward, I think we would talk about and I think we have talked about our profit margins for the company. We like the 20 basis point to 30 basis point improvement on a year-over-year basis, that could go up or down and certainly as we make some investment decisions that could impact that, but we're committed to operating profit improvement in both of the business units and the overall company and that's a drumbeat that's constant here, we work really hard, there's a lot of programs in place.

And the focus, as I mentioned, when we talk about those programs are sustainable programs. So I don't know, maybe, Kevin if you have any additional comments or thoughts on some specific things that you might mention, but we're pretty pleased with it. We're not surprised by it and more importantly, we're excited about what that looks like going forward.

Yes, I think you'd have to look at both things really. I mean, certainly the second half of our year, particularly the fourth quarter, just given the cadence of some of the things we do show strength. So there's always a little bit of second-half bias. There's probably some clearing of the backlog. I think the most important thing though, and if you go back here, equipment is lumpy, it was a very good quarter. We're not going to minimize it because we know what's behind it and it was across the whole equipment portfolio. But I look back and we've talked about this before, three-month increments are important but in equipment particularly, I think if you look back over longer periods of time, and I'm particularly proud of 8% growth average over the last eight quarters. I think that really smooth’s out all of the things you're talking about and kind of gives you a good snapshot of what we're doing.

We think that's above the market growth, we think it’s our -- it shows kind of our advantage that we have in this area and kind of the full suite of products and really the lifecycle management that we use when we talk to our customers about equipment sales. So, I think a little of all that, but again, I think kind of step back and say, how are we doing better than the market and we're pretty proud of that.

Maybe I'll let Kevin kind of walk through a little as much as we're going to share here.

No, I don't think so. And again, I think Kevin mentioned some things that year-over-year you can look at the impact when he talked about guidance, obviously, includes the increasing interest rate environment, at least, just on a year-over-year basis is a headwind, and the software investments and those kind of things, but that's all built into the guidance. I think what it really shows is, even with the guidance we've given, which is strong, we feel the underlying business is really set up to overcome those headwinds.

Yes, I think this is an area where [indiscernible] in our business, what we're seeing is very steady traffic. I think our own internal data and the ADA data utilization really is kind of bearing that out, but we're certainly seeing that in our customer base and it's a combination of price and utilization and I think as we look into next year, we're really not modeling any significant fluctuations in that. I think that's a good proxy right now for the way the business is operating and probably if you're modeling it for next year, for us at least, you'd look at that same kind of dynamic.

Yes, Nathan, well, I think I'd like to stay away from too much long term guidance on specifics, I think over the last five years in the earlier years on that cycle we probably benefited a little bit more just from the idea that we were getting the business back on track and improving with where we were, but at the same time we are putting in programs that were sustainable and that we thought would benefit our margin on a more consistent basis and long term basis going forward.

So right now, what we're seeing is the benefit of those types of things. And again, when we look at this and we really think through margin initiatives we're thinking through it from a standpoint of not a one-time or short-term basis, but really what's a long-term sustainable program. And so, for me as I look forward and we kind of talk about future, I would say for our horizons foreseeable future, we're looking at that, again, at that 20 basis point to 30 basis point improvement each year.

Okay. Yeah. Well, thanks, Jon. I think -- I think you're right look over that period of time that you're referencing, there definitely has been moderation. You kind of talked about all the dynamics of the pandemic and the other factors. What we're seeing right now is with that moderation visits are down slightly but spending is up. I think as people are bringing us back to the [indiscernible] maybe a catch-up element as well, but I think when we cut through it, again, we're in a healthy market and I think from our data standpoint, we're outperforming the market. So we're a market share gainer, and that's where we want to be particularly, there'll be some movements in the market, but we think we're gaining share.

Yeah. Well, Jeff, I think, good question. I think on your 5% over the last 12 months and we have 8% over the last eight quarters, but I think that mid-single digit range is good. I think that's a good way to think about this over the slightly longer term. On the pricing, I think for us, we're seeing again, not to beat on stability, but I think we're seeing pretty good stability on our pricing in this area. We have a healthy program and a disciplined program and the pricing has held up in spite of some of the macroeconomic trends and so has the demand. So for us this has been a good story and expect it to continue to be.

Again, I think if you're getting a mix of just demand and pricing, I mean, I think it's kind of a little of both. I guess I’m not -- the orthodontic data probably isn't quite as applicable to us. So I would reference those back to more to the Dental data, the ADA utilization [Technical Difficulty] point to that kind of steady traffic, that steady traffic theme.

Yes, Elizabeth. Thanks for the question. I think -- lets maybe start with the buy versus built. I mean, we were looking at both as we continue to enhance our capabilities, we are generally committed to build. I think that's been our history and that's been where we've been in Fuse. The investment themselves that it is reflected in the guidance. There is an element of operating expense, there is an element of capital that's involved, but overall the higher investment is reflected in all the comments in the numbers we're talking through here today.

And then you additional capabilities, I guess I wouldn't get into all the -- just competitively get into all the specific capabilities, I think I would say that we are making investments in both our Eaglesoft platform and Fuse. I think our view is that we really are excited about where these products are and where they're headed. It's a very fast paced and evolving area. So for us, having the features and functionality we need is important, but again, not only on the on-prem side but on the cloud base side. So, there's a lot of things happening here, a lot of technology and innovation and it's happening quick and so we're determined to stay ahead of that.

I think it's really pretty steady, this area. I mean it's evolving, but our strategy is consistent and so, overall, I think this is a good story. I don't really -- there's the national side, there's the regional side, obviously, we're working on both of them. We think we have a good core competence, particularly on the regional DSO kind of area, but probably nothing new to report in terms of any different dynamics.

Yeah, Kevin, I'd say, I think as we look forward, our first-half, second-half split should be fairly in line with the past couple of years, in terms of how we're modeling it right now.

Right.

Yeah, I think, again, as we mentioned, it is a bit lumpy. So, to me, we watch it back -- we watch it through each of the categories and look at the data, I think the backlog kind of reflects the lumpiness, so backlog at times as high other times its low, but I haven't, I'm not drawing and I don't believe there is a correlation here between anything that's going on with our backlog at any time and kind of overall traffic and demand, it depends more on innovation cycle inventory we're holding. And then installation so, but nothing that we think would be interesting in terms of reporting this out right now that would give you more insight.

Yes, I think I guess what I'd say is I think our teams do a really good job of managing through those dynamics, when they pop up. And we've got a pretty broad selection of multiple equipment categories and technologies and our team out in the field, dose a really good job of understanding what a dental practice needs how to meet those needs and most markets there is price declines you generally see it, demand increase and adoption increase when those things happen.
So I think that's what I'd say is we benefit from a really skilled sales force that knows our customers and knows what's going to be a good match for them at a wide variety of products to meet those needs.

Yeah. I appreciate the question and want to be helpful. Probably not going to give that level of data, it's something we track, I think maybe just suffice it to say that this is a very important part of our product portfolio, it's a high margin part of our product portfolio and a huge focus for us going forward. Again kind of reflected in the additional investments, we're going to make here, but, yeah, probably at this point. I'm not going to give you too much of a break down, I think it's a big addressable market for us.