Douglas Bryant
QuidelOrtho Corporation (QDEL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks for the question, Andrew. I'll start, and Joe, you jump in. We did see COVID sales in Q3, and then it dropped pretty dramatically. SARS hospitalizations are now down. The severity of the disease clearly not what it once was, and as I mentioned, we don't see any asymptomatic testing whatsoever. So, I think it is absolutely prudent for us to take down the COVID number to the lower end of the range, and that's probably the most dramatic change in philosophy. And I'll let you jump in there, Joe.

Thanks for the question, Alex. We think we have a pretty good understanding of market size and we think the number of tests starting with flu between 40 million and 60 million makes the most sense. We haven't seen something as low as 40 million in a while and we wouldn't expect at this stage to see something more than 60 million. So, I think we've pegged the market size correct. The question is, what's your market share? Well, our market share actually has increased, and the recent report that we saw this morning, it increased slightly more than that.

Well, the other factor is, what's happening with your price? Well, our price basically is flat and we've been able to take share and place Sofia analyzers with that same price. We've also seen a shift towards the combo assay, which is super healthy. So obviously, very difficult to predict this market, which is why we're widening the range.

What other ones…

Well, okay. What I would say is, early on, we've seen placements and 100% of our placements have indicated their interest and strong desire to run our respiratory viral panel product. So, 100% of the customers that we've closed and shipped thus far with Savannah, 100% of them are highly likely to order that product as we go into the third and fourth quarter, that's significant. And the number of tests on average that they're running or plan to run is about 3,000 per customer.

Flu season with a respiratory season would be Q4, Q1. So if you take the 1,000 analyzers that we intend to place times our assumed price times 3,000 tests, and you assume that holds true, and then you take and you split it evenly between the two quarters, you get roughly to what we're suggesting what we're going to do for Savannah in 2024. So those are our assumptions. You can argue with the assumptions if you like, but those are the facts and those are our assumptions and that's the basis for the number.

Sure. Thanks, Alex.

We're lowering to be clear, Casey, thanks for the question. We're lowering our guidance on COVID. We think it's prudent, but that has a consequence in terms -- because of mix it has as a consequence [Technical Difficulty] we're going to solve for that. And so if you think about what we've just announced in terms of the headcount reduction, again, that gets us about $50 million, as Joe said, and then you can back into the number if you want, but effectively, we're assuming that we generate another $100 million in savings in 2025 through our QO NEXT initiatives.

That's the other factor.

Now, what's our confidence in the $100 million? I would say, it's pretty good. We have gone through a diligence phase. We've gone through a business planning phase. We have at this point a plan that totals far greater than 300. And we assume that we should be able -- when looking at the initiatives, we should be able to ensure that we get at least a third of them fully accomplished. That's what's in the number.

Does that actually address your question, Casey?

We continue to evaluate all options, Jack. I think it's a great question. I just think when I look at it, you look at the time and effort to do a carve-out on business where we actually are the brand leader. There's a lot of value in that brand strength. When I look at the opportunity to potentially leverage that strength within the medium-sized hospital and help with our strategy, which is focused on the integrated platform, I felt like we would just be giving up too much.

And I do think that there are measures that we can take to improve the efficiency in the business, and I do think that with modest investment we can continue to grow the menu. And so, at this time, I don't think it's an asset that we would be willing to give up on so quickly. On the other hand, when you look at the U.S. Donor Screening business specifically, these are the larger factories, if you will. That business is in a market that's flat to declining, not expected to grow. It's a very expensive business to maintain.

And by not being in that business over time, I think we get about 100 basis point improvement in our growth rate and I think it helps our margins as well, our profile. So great question, Jack. Our IH business, the immunohematology part of it, I think is a valuable asset that we want to see if we can grow up.

I'll go in reverse order. It's an appropriate question. The CLIA waiver is expected by year end. The status of the submission of the 510(k) is on track per my previous comments. Recall that I had said that we expect to get clearance before the end of the first quarter, I think we're still on track for all that.

Yeah. Thank you, Conor. The total revenue, we knew, and we knew that we were going to be quite close in understanding that the miss was about 6% or 7% of what we had projected. So we didn't feel like it was something that we could announce. And further to that, I didn't -- I knew for sure I wouldn't have all the answers to all the questions that we would have during the one-on-ones at the conference. And we certainly didn't know where we stood at that stage in terms of EBITDA. So, I could have told you, obviously, that any gain or loss relative to the forecast with respiratory has a bigger impact, I knew that, but we really didn't have the specifics as we went into the conference. That's the only reason.

And as I said, Conor, we're chasing a bigger number than the 100 needed in terms of cost synergy.

We're definitely going to go through more detail. Yeah. And so, we're going to attempt to show on March 20th, what the initiatives are, what we're working on, what the milestones are, so that our investors can know that we're on track with what we say. But I would guess [Multiple Speakers] in terms of revenue margin, it would be over probably a three-year window at this stage.

I think that's true. I think you probably heard me comment earlier about the 1,000 placements, et cetera. I think we achieved what we set out to do in 2024. We'll have a really nice start to it. And so, I don't really see that the 250 will be something that will need to change the forecast that is.

Thanks.