Douglas Shulman
OneMain Holdings, Inc. (OMF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks Michael. Good to hear from you. As I said earlier in the call, we're just taking a conservative posture right now on credit. There's still a fair amount of uncertainty in the macro environment and a fair number of cross currents. Unemployment is a bright spot, but some people can't get as many hours as they had and some people are losing jobs even though the overall picture is good.

Inflation, while it's moderated is still impacting customers because prices remain elevated, even though they're not growing as much year-over-year. And then we've still got interest rates. So there's still just a bunch of cross currents in the environment. I also mentioned and Micah have mentioned, we really like the performance of our recent vintages. So where the box is now is we're booking really good business. And it's a really good competitive environment. So we're still able to pick our spots and book good business where it is. We often talk about a tightened credit box, but I'll just repeat what I've said before. There is no big credit box.

It's very, very granular by state, by the risk of a customer, by the product that they choose or we offer them by the channel that it comes in. And so we are cutting the credit box more than we're opening, but we're doing some of both all the time on a very granular level. The net is cutting. We also have what we call weather vein. So we're always booking a small amount of business right below our credit cutoff.

So we can see how that performs and get a sense if we're, like you said, leaving money on the table. I think the punchline is there's a decent chance we're leaving money on the table right now, but we're being conservative, and we take being stewards of our shareholders' capital very seriously. And when we're ready to ramp up, I don't think it's going to take a big turnaround. We already have our marketing. We've got direct mail campaigns. We've got e-mail campaigns. We've got affiliate channels and partners. We now have auto dealers where we can have different things happening. We've got a lot of social media and digital. And so all those levers are still running at different levels, so it would be pretty easy for us to ramp it back up.

What I will say is we still have very strong demand because of the competitive environment. We've been in the market. People like our product. And so we still have -- we could be booking more business today if we wanted. We're just choosing not to.

Yes. Look, Moshe, I've said over and over, growth is an output. We're going to make sure we book business with customers that we think can be successful, which means they pay us back and they keep good credit. And we're going to err on the side of conservative. I mean, the factors that drive it is one, our marketing, do we reach the right people; two is our value proposition. And I think we have now really honed our value proposition around secured loans, unsecured loans, smaller dollar loans, two types of card, fee card with a smaller line and no fee card and now we've got auto distribution to add to the channel. So we've got a range of products we can offer.

Then there's the customer experience when someone actually comes, what's it like, either talking to one of our team members interacting digitally, and we've done a lot of investment around that, and we think we're really well positioned. And then the overriding factor of that is our credit box. We've now for a while, had a credit box that has the models we run, which is our historical performance, what we're seeing with delinquency, and again it's not just one credit box, it's the type of customer, the channel they come in, have they done business with us before, the state they're in because we can do different pricing.

But right now, we have a macro-overlay of an extra 30% stress. So all things being equal, we're basically saying we're only going to book business if credit gets 30% worse than we think it's going to get because we want to be conservative. I think what we'll see is depending on -- we'll see payments coming in, we'll see the credit results, we'll see what's happening with our weather vein. And we'll also see what's happening externally with the macro. What's happening with employment, what's happening with inflation or interest rates coming down and our people spending more. There's all the external macro.

So we're running it very tightly, but right now, we're taking a conservative posture because even though all the economic indicators, when you read the papers, and turn on CNBC, everyone thinks the economy is great. It's not so great for every person in the country and the less money you have, the tighter it is for you. And so that's why we're running things very conservatively right now. But let me just add. At the end, we are booking great business. And the business we're booking today, we feel really good about. And so what we're encouraged about is we talk about it as our front book or our newer vintages that is business, that is meeting our historical return threshold that is -- the credit is trending more towards historical norms, which gives us a lot of confidence that we can keep booking that business incrementally. Hopefully, we'll be able to book more as some of those factors play. But whenever the economy turns, we're going to be really positioned for growth.

Thanks, Moshe.

Yes, thanks, Mihir. Look, it's a really good competitive environment for us. What I would say is going back to '21 and early 2022, there was a ton of supply in the market, and there was a fair amount of irrational pricing, meaning people were making loans to people with high expectations of losses at 10%, which just didn't make any sense, and people lost a lot of money when that happened. In '22, early '23, a lot of our competitors just couldn't get funding. And so we had a pretty wide-open market. But that shifted by mid-2023. I think it was back to a more normal competitive environment, where prices had risen, people with really strong balance sheets like us, had plenty of money to loan. People who didn't have as much history or not a strong balance sheet, both had tighter credit box, higher pricing and had to find funding, which was more expensive and harder to find.

We've looked hard at the environment. I think right now, overall, the amount of loans being made is less than it was pre-pandemic, but it's higher than it was a couple of years ago. All of this leads us to say we plan to win, and we plan to do good business and we plan to serve customers regardless of what's happening with the competition. I mean we have a healthy amount of respect for the competition. But that's why we've built out digital originations. We've expanded our product set. We've expanded our channels.

And so your question, does the growth take into account the competitive environment, it would have to change a lot for us to have to change our strategy due to the competition. I mean we kind of stick with our knitting. We have a long-term view. We stay in the market. We're incredibly disciplined around credit and it served us well. We continue to look, and we have in our deck on Slide 11, our credit results continue to be better than competition. And so I think it's because we have a long-term view, and we make sure that we're comfortable with the business we're booking.

Yes, thank you.

Hey, everybody. Thanks so much for joining us today. As always, we're available for follow-up questions, and we look forward to seeing everybody soon.