Douglas Yearley
Toll Brothers, Inc. (TOL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. It's a fluid process, Steve. We're really proud of this move we made into some lower price still affordable -- excuse me, still luxury product. As I've talked about, with 75 million millennials out there, we were not going to wait for them to hit their forties and buy their move-up home, which is what Toll Brothers has always been about. And I'm really proud of how we brought the 3-series BMW and we went after the more affluent first-time buyer. I think it'll stabilize around 45% of our business on a unit basis.

Now remember, because the price is a bit lower on a dollar value, that may be down 5 points or so from that 45%. And based on the numbers we just gave you for where we are right now, we're getting pretty close to that. In the fourth quarter, we were spot on with affordable luxury being 40% -- 46% of our unit sales and it reflected about 38% of our dollar value. So it's fluid. We continue to focus on more and more of those opportunities, but we're getting close to what I think is a good mix. Quarter-by-quarter, it may vary a little bit, but we're about there.

And as I also mentioned, the affordable luxury and the active adult empty-nester, which also tends to be a bit lower priced, naturally, they led in order growth, fourth quarter 2023 over 2022. So the strategy is paying off, those segments are performing well and they should, right? 75 million millennials and 75 million boomers are driving the most action in those two segments for us. So we're getting close to where we want to be with a little bit of fluidity as it moves quarter to quarter, but most of the hard work is behind us.

Thank you. So the last couple of years we've been running at 24, 25 sales per community per year for the company. I think heading into 2024, particularly with rates moving down, economic outlooks beginning to improve, a sense that the FED is done or very close to being done we believe we're going to do better than that 24 to 25 overall for the company. And of course, we have higher absorptions in both affordable luxury and active-adult move down because the price point is lower, there's more buyers with those demographics. So let's just say if the average is 26 for the company, maybe affordable luxury, active adult is pushing up to 30 and move up is in call it the 22 to 24 range.

CIP is $5.5 billion.

And then Marty, just to help clarify that also what we call the finished specs, which are those that a client can move in in the next couple of months, it's only 1.5 homes per community that are -- specs that are at or very close to CO, and we can offer up to the client as that create alternative to a resale home that is not on the market at the moment.

Thanks, Mike.

Great question, Mike. We certainly don't have the crystal ball as to where the spring will end up. But I will tell you that I am a lot more encouraged sitting here in the middle of December than I was a year ago. On October the 19th, we hit 8.25% for a 30-year no point mortgage. And I checked the rate sheet this morning before I walked in here, and today we're at 7.25%. So we're down 100 basis points in the 30-year mortgage in six weeks. It's December, I can't sit here and tell you that that's translating immediately in the last couple of weeks results because of seasonality, but it sure feels good heading into the spring season. And boy, the timing couldn't be better for a rate to drop like that in December setting up that mid-January launch of the spring season when most homes are sold. The 10-year is at 417 basis points, remember, the historic spread from the ten-year to the 30 is 170 basis points. If that historic spread was in play today, that's a 578 mortgage off of this 10-year. I think we all believe the 10 year still has room to move south. And at some point, when there's more confidence in the longer-term macroeconomic outlook, the spread is going to come down from where it is now to something closer to that 170 basis points.

So, again, I don't have the crystal ball on rates, but it sure feels good. And there's reason to believe that this 7.25% we sit at today may even get better and that just sets up really well for this spring season. Where we have the most pricing power that'll be market by market. We make those decisions on a very local community-by-community basis. We have many, many communities opening during the spring season we talk about 10% community camp growth, but that's a net number. We're going to have many communities sell out, and we're going to have over [indiscernible] new communities opening in 2024. And over the last few years, there's been a lot of hype with the launches of these new communities because of the pent-up demand as people wait for that new community to open up.

So I know it's a soft answer for you, but that's the best I can give you. But sitting here today with where rates stand, with where sentiment stands, with how the company is positioned, with new openings, and with the spec strategy that will be adding more homes available to purchase at various stages of completion, as we roll through this coming spring, we have optimism. And therefore we think we will be able to raise prices and we will be able to continue to manage and hopefully continue to modestly decline the incentive -- reduce the incentive.

Yes, we are committed to the new spec strategy. I think in the industry, we're on the low end for sure of the percentage of our homes at our spec. We're very careful in that strategy. But as we've strategically come down in price point, there are more opportunities for us to build more spec. We also know there's a void with the tight resale market for those buyers that want to move in faster because maybe they went to market and were looking for a resale, they couldn't find what they wanted, but they had in their mind an earlier move in date than the typical 12-month build to order construction cycle time. And so yes, the strategy is working. We are committed to it.

And as Marty said earlier, many builders define spec as a home that's much further along and there's no opportunity for choice. We put many of our specs on the market when they're being framed, and on occasion -- more than on occasion regularly, we may slow down construction as drywall is being hung so that the buyer has that opportunity to pick their flooring, pick their kitchen cabinets, pick their countertops, pick their Kohler plumbing fixtures, et cetera, et cetera. And that still offers the buyer the opportunity to go through the design studio process, have a comb that they feel is custom to their lifestyle, but it's still a much quicker delivery than if they started fresh before we'd even pulled a building permit. So this strategy is now in its second full year, it is working, and it will continue to drive growth in the future.

Thanks, Alan.

Sure. So let me first start on the numbers. Our specs sell for about $200,000 less than build-to-order, and that's because of two things. We generally don't build a spec on the high-lot premium lots. We save the best lots for those clients who want to go build-to-order, because we know the build-to-order crowd, when they get into our design studio, they spend a lot more money. And so part of that $200,000 lower price is a more average lot premium and it's less upgrades. We make sure the specs are fully curated with great finishes. We bring in nationally acclaimed designers that do the interior design of our model homes, to come up with great packages, but we don't go wild and we don't overdo it.

And so naturally, that price is a couple of hundred thousand dollars lower. We also tend to build more specs in less expensive communities because you have more buyers. The lower you go in price, the bigger the market you have. Generally, specs gross margin is about 250 basis points lower than build-to-order.

At this moment in time.

Now, we are encouraged that that spread is tightening a bit. But as part of our new business model, we've accepted that. We're not disappointed by that at all. We're happy with that because when you blend the build-to-order model and by the way, another stat that's related to this, we are now at 26.5%, reflecting lot premium plus upgrades for the build-to-order client that used to be 21%. So those that go in build to order, they're taking the best lots with the higher premiums, and they're spending more money on both structural and finish upgrades. And therefore because, as we've talked about, our gross margin coming out of our design studios is up at 40%, the build-to-order business model is driving terrific margins.

We are happy to weigh into that to blend into that a spec margin that's 2.5 points lower because the overall package, as you can see, is pretty darn good and we're driving a nice high margin. So that -- I hope that helped you, Alan, with the breakdown of the price point of the spec and the margin of the spec.

Sure. The spec homes on average take about two months less to build and deliver.

Well, it's seasonality. November and December historically are slower months. You got -- obviously, we know the holidays you have from Thanksgiving through New Year's. And I'm actually pleased that we're trending where we are. We've already said that historically, Q1 is down 20% because in Q1 you have this November and December. But we're hopeful, and it's a combination of the sales we've had to date to start the first quarter, plus these pretty dramatic drop in rates over the last few weeks, setting up what we think not from now through New Year's, but in early January, we have, I think, very solid, legitimate reasons to believe that the market is going to have a good start to that spring season in January. We're going to do better than that historic 20% down.

Right. And one week doesn't make a trend, but last week was a really good week. And I'm not going to read too much into that, but we're going to stay where we are, which is it feels seasonal. The norm is down 20%. We think we'll do a little better.

Alex, it's a great question. It's very interesting for us, and this may be a bit different from the other builders. We have all the programs the other builders have. We've got the two-one buy down. We've got the three two one buy down. We'll take your 30-year rate from now 7.25% to 5.58%. You want it, we'll call our mortgage company and we'll figure it out. And it's a great front-end marketing tool. It's all over our website, it's all over the email marketing campaigns we have with our clients. It drives traffic into our communities, very few take it.

And the reason is, if we're buying your rate down, we're looking at a 30-year time frame. And most clients think to themselves. I'm going to be in this house five to seven years, which is the average amount of time that you're in a home, or they think, I think I can refi at some point before that five to seven years and the incentive that Toll Brothers is wrapping into this rate buy down they have offered me as an alternative incentive to go have fun in the design studio and have a discount or a credit in that design studio. And I'd rather upgrade my house on them than take advantage of a rate buy-down. So it's driving traffic, it's conversation but we are not seeing the stickiness that maybe others are.

Part of it is, 26% of our buyers are all cash, and those that get a mortgage have a 69% LTV. And I think maybe -- they're obviously more affluent, maybe they take a little lower mortgage than they would otherwise have. That's particularly true in active adult, where that LTV is probably closer to 50% because they have more equity coming out of their existing home and they're thinking to themselves, I'd rather use the money to upgrade my home and refi earlier than maybe the formula shows. And so we market the heck out of it, but we don't see a lot of takers.

Yes. And the further along the home is, the less expensive the buy down is because you can lock a lower rate for 60 days or less cost than locking that rate for 90 or 120. So, yes.

Buydowns have definitely got cheaper. You're buying down from 7.25% instead of 8.8%. So that, thank you, Marty. That's exactly right. The other nice piece of news here that I'll throw in, the loan limit on a conforming Fanny Freddie is up $313,000 since 2018. It just went up again, and that helps the business.

Absorption.

As measured right now by deposits.

Because when we -- whenever we give you guys some flavor on what's happened since the end of the quarter to the call, and it's usually three or four weeks, but because it's fiscal year end, it's five weeks, that information is always based on deposit activity. Because, as we take a deposit that can then take two, three sometimes we hope not, but sometimes four weeks to convert from deposit to agreement.

On that subject, another good stat. Historically, we run about 68% of our deposits, converted to agreement. In the fourth quarter, 79% of the deposits converted to agreement. So when the people go through the process, they pick their lot, they give us the deposit, they start the process of finalizing their lot choice, their home design, their upgrades. It's sticky. It's now up to 79% of those deposits move forward.

Little. I -- we sold a lot of houses at 8%. We'll sell more houses at 7.25%. And if my long monologue about where the ten year is and where the 170 spread typically is and where we think things are coming, if I'm right and we can break through that 7% into 6% land, yeah, every time there's a drop in rates, our business should get better. That's proven true over the past couple of years, so we are optimistic.

Sure. So two-thirds of our sales involve an outside Realtor representing our client. On average, we pay that Realtor 2.25% of the delivered price of the home. When you do the math, that comes out to 1.5% of total revenue of the company is with third-party Realtors. It's too early to comment on the NAR litigation. Obviously, there's appeals and there's other litigation that has popped up since that case. But I think longer term, the industry, we are all encouraged to believe that the third-party commissions will be coming down.

Yes, I think it's a fair comment, Truman. Land banking got more expensive and so we probably did a little bit less land banking, which is one of the reasons that we didn't option as much land. However, we are -- even though we're at 50% owned, 50% optioned and the progression to 60-40 may take a bit more time, that doesn't change our obsession with capital efficiency, with driving IRRs and therefore ROEs. Because if we're not going to land bank it, which may keep it off our books and keep it optioned longer, we're going to get terms from our land sellers through purchase money mortgages where even though we own the land, we don't pay for it until some date in the future through a purchase money mortgage format. So the IRRs are still being driven and are still very much focused on as we underwrite land, even if it's taking a bit longer to move the option bucket higher.

Thank you, Rocco, you've been terrific. Thank you everyone for your interest and support of our great company and we wish all of you a wonderful holiday season.
