Doug Howe
Designer Brands Inc. (DBI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Mauricio. This is Doug. I'll start and then I'll turn it over to Jared. Yes, we are pleased, as we said, with the results that we're seeing season to-date. It's largely driven, by strength that we're seeing in the casual area, as well as athletic and in kids. And it's, again, a significant improvement to what we saw coming out of Q4. So early days, so a lot of volatility, obviously, in the market. But we're very pleased with how the quarter is starting to play out.

Yes, on Nike, as we said in the remarks, the brand went to one of our top national brands pretty quickly in the quarter. We're very pleased with the results. They continue to be great partners. It's nearing the penetration that it was pre-pandemic. So again, we feel really good about that. Continuing to get access to product that we've never had before. Again, they've been great partners.

Very pleased with the progress that we're seeing there, as well as overall active. And Nike, that's kind of a positive halo effect, on some of the other businesses as well. Really strong driver of the kids' business. We're seeing nice trip drivers coming out of driven by Nike kids that are actually positively impacting, the women's business as well. So again, couldn't be more pleased with the partnership today.

Yes, yes, Dylan. Certainly just given the sheer size of DSW vis-a-vis the Brand segment, the sales growth and comp growth we guided to would indicate, you've got more just actual dollar volume coming from that segment. However, we did guide that the Brand segment will actually grow mid-single digits.

And we do have a full year worth. I mean, we acquired both Keds and Topo, at the beginning of last year. So, with all of that put into the mixer, we are seeing mid-single digit growth on the brand side or single-digit growth in our comp, for retail businesses.

I'm sorry, you broke up there. What was the question?

Correct, yes. Yes, that's organic growth.

Yes, Dylan, this is Doug. Laura has already made, meaningful progress with the team, obviously just, as her focus is continuing to revitalize the assortment. Most notably, that's really leaning into the areas where we're seeing consumer demand growing and we're underpenetrated, specifically athletic. So that's where we're seeing some really nice growth there. Seeing a really nice growth in the kids' area as well.

And a lot of that is on the back of the return of Nike, obviously. But we're maintaining our commitment in own brands. The penetration was essentially flat. That'll evolve, obviously, and the portfolio has evolved, with the acquisition of Keds, Topo, talk about Hush Puppies as well. So again, we'll continue to evolve, but feeling really good about the green shoots, we're seeing already, with the changes that the team has made in this format.

This is Doug. I mean, we're going to continue to focus on what we can control. So, the team has done a really good job of managing inventory. We have opened a buy, to take advantage of opportunistic buys, to chase categories and products that are working as well. That's one of our key strengths, honestly, and we're certainly not walking away from that. So, I'd say that's the biggest thing that - we could do. And so, we just stay really close to what's happening, obviously, as we progress through 2024.

Yes. Thank you.

Great. Thanks, Dana. This is Doug. As it relates to your first question on the consumer health, as we said, we are encouraged by the trend change that we've seen, obviously, in Q1, as it compares to Q4. Overarching, I would say, the customer is definitely responding to newness. And that has been a dedicated focus, obviously, driven by Laura in the U.S. and then Mary Turner in Canada.

So the team has been maniacally focused on that, leaning into categories that were underpenetrated, and where we're seeing really nice demand, specifically athletic. The casual businesses, had a nice buoyancy as well. And then the kids' businesses is coming on strong as well. We talked about the positive impact of Nike, but it's definitely broader than that.

So, I'd say overall, it's really around we're seeing a trajectory change from what we saw coming out of Q4. Still early on, obviously, and still volatility. As we think about channel growth, we really think agnostically about that, between stores and digital. The digital business has been stronger, from a comp perspective than stores. But again, we're big believers in stores. We are definitely seeing an increase, modestly in traffic there.

We're continuing to invest in top of funnel marketing, which had a really positive holdout result, to increase the traffic there. So, we're feeling good about that. We're leveraging stores in a different way. And we think it's very much this ecosystem. 60% of our digital demand, is fulfilled by our stores. 90% of our e-commerce returns, are made in stores. So there's a lot of footsteps in the confluence, of those two channels.

So, we really think about those holistically. We talked about the eight net new stores in Canada. So, we're excited about that. And we don't have any plans to make any material differences in DSW. Again, it really goes back to the work that I mentioned that Laura's focusing on. How do we update those stores in a very thoughtful way, with LED lighting, paint, hardwood flooring, and think about making the experience, even more inviting and enjoyable?

So lots of focus on that, but no major change in the store count. And then as it relates to your last question, it's early days with Andrea. But I've been really pleased, with the progress that she's making, already with the team. She's maniacally focused on profitability, as well as prioritizing the brands that, we see significant upside growth.

There's been some meaningful changes, through investments in the brand portfolio in the last 12 to 15 months, obviously, with the Keds acquisition, Topo, Hush Puppies, and Le TIGRE. So again, there's a lot of net new in the portfolio that, she has arsenal to work with. But very, very early days. We'll come back, with more specifics, as she's had a little bit more time in the role. Thanks for your question.

Thank you all again, for joining us this morning. We look forward to continuing, to update you on our progress, as we progress through 2024. Thanks again.