Doug Black
SiteOne Landscape Supply Inc. (SITE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, so Pioneer, 34 locations, about $160 million in sales in both Arizona and Colorado. So they have a terrific network of branches and locations in two extremely high growth markets where we already have a significant presence. And you're right, they're mostly a bulk materials business, but they do sell our traditional hardscapes, and that's the synergies. We can really ramp up that business in the hardscape side. We can add lighting and other product lines that fit in addition to continuing to grow the bulk business. They were an integrated company where they had the quarries and the distribution, and they really ran it for profitability of the quarries. And so there was the other opportunity. It's not our normal acquisition where they're kind of already at or above where we are on EBITDA, that they underperformed from an EBITDA standpoint. That was reflected in the acquisition investment that we made. But we see a clear line of sight for ramping them up and getting them up to our average or above over the next couple of years.

So there's the opportunity. When we bought it late last year, so they contributed negative EBITDA. It was, they're going into kind of the loss-making part of their season, if you will. And this year, the synergy this year will have synergies. Their SG&A was higher than it should be, and so we've taken some significant actions there. But we'll get the benefit of a full year, the synergies, SG&A reductions, etcetera, in 2024. So we're excited about it. But that's the nature of the business and some of the background and color.

Yes, so we are kind of seeing it slowly, pricing slowly improve kind of month-to-month and we think it will be a gradual march through the year turning positive in the second half and net positive we believe in the second half. But we do see it improving kind of month-to-month but it is gradual and like John mentioned pipe kind of took another leg down that's slowed down the improvement if you will a bit, but we still see it happening here in the last couple of months.

Yes, great question. We do have, obviously, there's a heavy focus on that. As the market slowed down in 2023, we had to make those adjustments. And so, we did those through the year in our base business. And I think through that, we're entering in 2024 in better shape, if you will, or more matched to the market. Then we entered 2023. So that's a tailwind to SG&A. You also have, for example, we noted at the Pioneer acquisition that really brought a lot of SG&A and not as much sales. That's the timing of that. It's meaningful as we go and get a full year there while at the same time adjusting their levels to be more appropriate.

And then I think our initiatives more and more start to take hold in terms of the mobile pro, dispatch track, or siteone.com. We feel better about where those are. They're fully deployed now. And the productivity that we're able to get out of those in the field has increased. So I think when you put those together, we feel good about our ability to drive leverage, where maybe we hadn't in years past. I think we just got better and we're better capable of doing it now.

Morning, Damian.

Yes well, we saw, if you will, the drop in 2023, right? So, as it turned out for the year, repair model, at least for us, was down, it was weaker. And we saw that, kind of across the country with high interest rates, low housing turnover, and like I said, just an adjustment from the go-go days of COVID. But we really feel like that's stabilized. I mean, that's just talking to our customers and seeing the sales that we're getting and backlogs, etcetera. We feel like it's just kind of adjusted and that now it will be fairly stable. So we don't see it getting worse. And again, we're playing at the higher end of homes. You can see interest rates starting to come down a bit. We can see projects in the pipeline at least for the first quarter, first half of the year. So it's just the rate that we're getting from customers that we feel like it will be flattish in 2024, coming off of a down year in 2023.

I don't know the specific math, John and Mike, but that would be mostly through acquisitions. We saw hardscapes kind of hanging in there. Obviously, hardscapes is tied to repair or remodel. So the market was going the other way for hardscapes. I would say hardscapes for us longer-term is a great product line. Net-net, it's going to grow faster than the market because you still have some penetration going on there. It's a good profitable part of our business and we're excited to continue to increase the amount of hardscapes we have in our overall mix. But those types of numbers, that would have been additions through acquisitions, not an organic type of performance for 2023.

Did that answer your question?

Yes. So I think it will be a gradual steady climb. As John mentioned, we switched from the price realization tailwind, which obviously carried us in 2021 and 2022. So 2023 becoming a headwind, that headwind will continue in 2024. We'll make progress in 2024 despite that, but that will come back to us in 2025. So we got some juice, if you will, for 2025 that comes from that headwind going away and going back to equilibrium. And then I think you'll just see a steady climb.

There's no one event. There's a lot of things pointed at that. On the gross margin side, as we grow with our small customers, we drive our private label brands. And as we do some of our own initiatives and freight and otherwise, we attack that gross margin.

And on the SG&A side, with siteone.com and MobilePro and the technologies that we've deployed, with our TMS and freight management, which we're now focused on the last leg of delivery, and that's going to help us on the overhead there. As we further leverage our DCs and our center, we're going to get SG&A leverage there. And quite frankly, as we spread best practices across nursery and hardscapes, which are the more operating-intensive parts of our business. So with the combination of those, we had kind of steadily toward that.

And just to give confidence, we have whole regions that are $500 million, $600 million of sales already in that, and they're fully loaded with our overhead and our head office overhead, etcetera, already operating there. So we've got hundreds of branches already operating. We've got many operating above that.

So we see it all over SiteOne. It's just getting the average up to that level, and we're very confident we can do that.

Yes. I think, again, the near-term sales and the weather don't give you a read on volume. So I wouldn't take too much into -- well, we're here in January, etcetera, because the weather really moves things around in January and February, and it can change from week to week and then you hit March, and it could change even further.

So I think what we believe is that the market is stronger, right? Residential is going to be stronger. We think repair and remodel will be net stronger, meaning it won't be down. We think it will be flattish. Maintenance is solid and commercial is still solid, right?

And so if we take that backdrop and we look at the comps from the prior year, we think the volume growth that we've seen in the third and fourth quarter is going to continue. And as we hit the third and fourth quarter of 2024, we've got price, we've got the price headwind abating and we still have strong markets, and we've got stronger teams where we can drive more volume. So that's kind of how we think the year will play out outside some of the weather movements that we're seeing here today. So in general, we feel good about the forecast there and our ability to go generate consistent volumes throughout the year.

Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, and thank you everyone for joining us today. We appreciate your interest in SiteOne, and we look forward to speaking to you again after our first quarter. We'd like to once again thank our terrific associates for all that they do to make us a great company. Our customers and suppliers, we certainly appreciate them as well. Thank you. Bye.