Douglas Bauer
Tri Pointe Homes, Inc. (TPH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Truman, this is Doug. Our forecast -- business plan forecast is for margins to be slightly down compared to '23 but it's early and with good market conditions which we are currently seeing. We should see those margins tighten subject to cost conditions as well, obviously. But that's where we see right now. But it's -- we had a long way to go.

This is Doug again. There is no upper bound limit for labor supply chain. It's actually quite normal, if anything is normal in today's world. So -- but our pace, years and years and years ago, we kind of targeted 3 but our pace today target is 3.5.

Well, as far as growth, I'll take the top line, Stephen, this is Doug. We are continuing to establish operations. We are -- we announced Utah last year and I would expect to have established operations in the Florida and Coastal Carolina markets this year. So either organically or through M&A, we're going to continue to grow top line growth in those new markets.

In our existing markets, we've got 15 divisions across the country, half are close to stabilization on the West, generating strong cash flow, very good margins. And then the Central and East continues to be our growth markets, seeing tremendous growth as I mentioned in the prepared remarks in the Texas and Carolina markets which we're very bullish on.

As far as margins long term, Stephen, I mean, listen, we underwrite our land deals, 18% to the 22% range. But we do self-develop about 65% -- probably closer to 70% of our lots and when we underwrite those deals, it's typically in the low 20s, somewhere between 20% to 24%. So if you're developing more lots, you should have a better margin profile, right? If you're buying finished lots, you're going to be on 18% margin. So that's kind of how we look at the long term.

Let me interrupt you one more time, Stephen. We're in a very -- if anything is normal, as I mentioned earlier. But our business plan is very simple. We've increased book value per share of 15% since the end of 2015. And our goal is very simple. We're going to increase book value per share, 10% to 15% through a combination of share repurchases and strong earnings. So our focus is driving the stock price up. We just focus on book value per share because all the other extraneous discussion on multiples and everything. It really doesn't mean anything to us. We'll trade with the group, however, they trade. We're just focused on making more money going forward and delivering a great customer experience.

No. I mean, like I mentioned earlier, I would expect us to establish operations in Florida and the Coastal Carolinas this year, either organically or through M&A. As you can imagine, the only -- the big difference between M&A and organic is you're paying a multiple of some sort on M&A and organically, you're paying book value. So that's really the difference. And frankly, we started organically back in 2009. So we do have a very strong playbook of growing organically. We've had tremendous success. So we'll continue down both paths.

Hi Mike, it's Doug. As we -- Linda mentioned earlier, incentives on orders in the quarter were 4.8%; in January, they're 4.4%. We have a very good supply of move-in ready homes, promoting rate buy-downs but they're typically used. We don't use any forwards but about 86% of our orders are using some sort of financing incentive, most of it is permanent versus temporary. Another factor in our backlog at TPC, our average mortgage rate was 6.3% with using 2.1 percentage points and the -- that's our lock backlog. And in the Q4, TPC deliveries it's 6.6%.

So the beauty of higher rates is the homebuilders have the ability to pull a lot of levers to keep absorption. We had another excellent week of sales last week. So there's this continued locked-in effect with the resale market that continues to allow the new homebuilders to increase market share of total home sales, I think it's well over 30% now which is typically 10% and my own personal forecast, I think rates are going to stay pretty much where they are, maybe trend up a little but it's an election year. So it probably won't move much. But that's where it is right now.

Yes, Alex, it's Doug. We're expecting deliveries in Utah by the end of '25 and I would expect deliveries from the Florida and coastal markets in '26.

Can you repeat that question?

Deliveries, yes.

Well, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today and we look forward to chatting with all of you next quarter. Have a great week. Thank you.
