Drew Wilkerson
RXO, Inc. (RXO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. No, absolutely. Thank you, Ken. This is Drew. So if you look at what we saw in the first quarter, typically, the first two weeks of January, you see pressure on your gross profit per load and your gross profit percentage. We saw that, but it actually was worse than what we anticipated due to whether Jared hit on in his prepared commentary, that the Midwest and the Southeast, specifically those gross profit percentages were down 2 to 3 times more than what the rest of the country was. So this was largely driven by weather. There is also the cost of purchase trends.

We had hit the bottom of where the carriers were operating at, so there was no room to pull down carrier costs, and we're operating in what is largely a contractual volume. There's not a lot of spot loads out there in the market today to where spot gross profit per load can help offset that.

But again, if you look at where we finished for the quarter, I think our gross margin percentage stacks up well for where we finished in the industry. And I think that we'll continue to see best-in-class gross margins because of the investments that we've made in our technology.

Yes. So Jordan, two big things have to happen for the back half recovery. The first is the overall macro. If you look at what's happened in the macro, GDP sitting around 3.3%. Inflation continues to ease. The job market reports have been good. So we need the market to continue to be in a stable environment.

The second thing and the biggest thing that we're watching right now is capacity exits. And as Jared said, we've seen capacities exit the market every month since October of 2022. And in the month of January, we saw them run at 30% higher than what all of 2023 came out at. So we need to continue to see capacity exits across. There's still a good bit more capacity in the market than what there was even at pre-COVID. So those two big things have to happen for the back half of the recovery. That is our base case. That's what we're anticipating happening. And when you look at that, what the base case implies is that you start to see revenue, gross profit per load EBITDA turning positive during that time frame.

Yes. So typically, you do see Q1 get better throughout the month -- I mean, throughout the quarter. And that's what we're anticipating in the guide that we gave you from $12 million to $18 million in EBITDA for Q1. January, there was pressure on gross profit per load. As we've gotten into February, we've seen in this first little bit of February, we've started to see gross profit per load trend better than what it was in the month of January. It's not back to where it was in October and November, but it has started the path to recovery, which is why we were able to give you the range that we did of $12 million to $18 million.

Yes. So the recovery will largely depend on the spot market, it will largely depend on what's happening in the overall market. That's not something you can -- as a business, it's harder to shift from spot to contract, is more of looking at what's going on in the market and making sure that you're in the pole position as spot loads as project as many bids start to happen, you're in the pole position for customers to reach out to you, and we're confident that we're in the pole position. If you look at the market, I mean, in Q4 load-to-truck ratio went down to around 2:1.

Tender rejections were around 4%. That's not a market that's conducive to being a heavy spot market. Now did we see spot loads go up sequentially? Yes, but it was minimal. Our spot gross profit per load was trending ahead of our contractual gross profit per load. But it's not a robust spot market and the measures that we watch are load-to-truck ratio, tender rejections, carrier exits and what we're hearing from our customers. And our customers are still telling us that they will lean on us for projects. They'll lean on us for spot loads as the market does start to tighten.

Thank you.

Yes. Absolutely, Bran. The biggest thing that we're looking at is how we're operating versus the industry versus in the environment that we're in. And so when you look at what we're seeing right now, we're putting up best-in-class volume growth, and we're doing that with best-in-class margins. Now in the bottom part of the cycle, you do feel pressure on your gross profit per load. Gross profit per load is one of the biggest levers that we watch for where we're going to go long-term.

So the pressure that you see on the downward -- you see the good side of that on the upswing that gross profit per load can bring to you. So for us, we're confident that we're making the right investments that allow us to operate at the best gross margin percentage with strong volume growth.

Yes. So if you look at it, the gross profit per load is down from where it was a year ago which is what gives -- again, what you see in the $12 million to $18 million number is the impact that gross profit per load has on the business. And you'll see or feel the upside of that as the market starts to recover. For every dollar the gross profit per load recovers is a meaningful impact to the P&L.

Thank you.

Yes. So obviously, we're impacted by the strikes with the UAW. And I would say that things came back online slower than what we would have anticipated. The major OEMs did a fantastic job of preplanning how they were routing shipments to make sure that they had enough inventory at sites as they were starting back. So there wasn't as many of the expedite just-in-time shipments is what we would expect going in.

As far as the wins that we're having in managed transportation, we've had a number of wins in the three specifically in the managed transportation expedite business. That's been a leading position for us for a long time. Customers know that we understand the importance of time-critical freight and what it does to their supply chains. We've been a trusted partner in that for more than two decades. So we think that we'll continue to take share there. The overall managed transportation business, that pipeline is strong. We've got a number of large deals that are in the works right now that can potentially move the ball forward in a big way.

Yes, I'll start with that, the second part of your question, Scott, with how we look at it. The first thing is we look at ROIC and what's the return on invested capital that we're putting in. The second thing that I would say is for everything that we do, we look at how it will impact volume, how it will impact our overall margins and how it will impact us as employees? Will it make us more productive and allow us to do more loads per day per head? And that's a metric that we've continued to move forward. So we look at the business for the long-term. We're not -- while we're optimizing our costs right now, we look at the business at where we're headed for the long term.

You mentioned some of the specific investments that we've had down at the border, down at Laredo that was a huge deal for us. If you look at where we're positioned at Laredo, we're right at the World Trade Bridge. There's a lot of freight that goes through there. It's the largest crossing for cross-border shipments north and south bound. And if you look at -- most recently, we announced a GenAI tool that allows our customers to move loads more efficiently on cross-border freight and it allows our carriers to have complete tracking of where their trailers are at, at our different facilities.

Scott, I want to make sure that I'm understanding the question right. Are you saying like the recovery in cash or gross profit per load? I'm not sure I followed you completely.

Yes. No. So we're very confident in the long-term. As you look at different parts of the cycle, whether it was in 2017 when the market was down, 2015 when the market was down, in 2020 at the beginning parts of COVID. You've seen that customers -- as tender rejection start to go, customers come to us and we're their go-to choice for spot loads, for projects, for many bids. We've got a proven history of showing that the gross profit per load does recover in the up part of the cycle. So we're extremely confident in that.

Thank you.

Bruce, I think that we've shown in the past that we can absolutely pivot to be able to do that. You've seen our mix shift as close to 1,000 basis points on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Again, it goes back to what I told Scott. When the market turns, when people are rejecting loads, when there's projects, customers are going to come to the people that they know best. They're going to go to who they've had long-term relationships with, who's got technology that's integrated within their business. Somebody who has delivered results for their supply chain and their transportation needs. And if you look at our largest customers, they've been with us for 16 years on average. So we're highly confident that as the market inflects, you will see a big movement in gross profit per load and overall profitability.

Jack, I think that one thing that you could go back and look at is the history and they have stuck with us. The growing volume isn't something that has been unusual to us or onetime on a yearly basis. I think that what you would look for is the best price. Customers look for best price, best solution, best service.

Service is really important to our customers. And the fact that we can flex our capacity up and down with them, the fact that we're delivering when we say we're going to deliver, we've got great communication. We've got technology that helps deliver results into their business. We can help customers decide when they're going to ship something, what mode of transportation they're going to use. We've helped them optimize their freight. So in that sense, you do see them lean on us more to create solutions in a tighter market than what you see in a looser market.

Thank you, Lara. RXO continued to deliver significant brokerage volume growth and strong margins in the fourth quarter despite the freight market that has been solved for a significant amount of time. We're taking the right actions today to deliver long-term results, including deepening our customer relationships, having a disciplined approach to cost and making the right investments for future growth. I'm proud of all that RXO delivered in 2023, and I'm looking forward to continuing to deliver for shareholders, customers, employees and the carriers that we partner with again in 2024. Thank you all for your time today, and I look forward to seeing a lot of you over the next few weeks.