Edward Pesicka
Owens & Minor, Inc. (OMI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think the first factor is, and you alluded to that and you said that upfront is, we actually saw growth in both parts of the business this quarter, both Products and Healthcare Services as well as Patient Direct.

And if think about the divisions within Products and Healthcare Services, we have seen – I don't want to say the bottom, but we're starting to see – we've seen it level out within our products business specifically. While the demand has been consistent, we're now starting to see that slightly uptick. We do still have some customers that have some additional stock, and we're helping them burn through that.

Now, we've also done a nice job beginning to burn through some of our excess inventory during 2023. So, as we look into 2024, we expect that the start to ramp in the upward direction and provide some momentum. So, that's how we're thinking about the PPE specifically.

There's some categories where we're seeing faster growth than other. I think surgical is a great example of that, and we're starting to see demand for PPE escalate as people have burned through those products and we're seeing the surgery rate starting to slightly increase. So that's how we're seeing it from a qualitative standpoint.

Just sort of high level, one, we really haven't – let me step back. When we think about where our manufacturing footprint should be, we don't think it should be in one specific geographic location. We take all the different circumstances and all the different issues that potentially can run as we look at it. And if you look at our footprint today, it's primarily in the Americas, both North America, Central America, with the one exception is our gloves, which are in Thailand. If we think about where our shipping channels are today, it really is not impacted by those issues that are in the market today because we're shipping really directly to the West Coast. And if we do, we go through the Panama Canal, if we have to get to the East Coast. And we look at our shipping partners on the Panama Canal, we have preset slots that enable us to get through. And we've seen about a one to three day delay at most within that, but generally speaking we have our time slots, we have it lined up, and it hasn't impacted us.

As we think about the manufacturing footprint more broadly going forward, we'll continue to look at where does it create opportunities for us to get the products that we need at the right price that the customers demand and be able to service them?

So, I guess, overall, the current situation in Suez Canal is not impacting us because it's not a primary shipping channel for us. If we think about where we are today, if we have to use one of those canals, we use Panama Canal where we ship to the West Coast. And based on our footprint, it's a different footprint we have today. And as we go into the future, we'll take those things into consideration as we continue to remap out our manufacturing footprint.

Maybe I can start and then Alex can add some color. So let me just talk a little bit about just the operating model realignment and the carry forward, and the bulk of that is going to end up in actually our profits or earnings before the interest, really the earnings part of EBITDA.

And one of the things I think we've tried to clearly state both at Investor Day as well as on some of our prepared remarks was the fact that the savings that we've gained from that, in addition to the run rate we have, the vast majority of that is going to be reinvested back into the business. And we're pretty comfortable in the range where we are from both EBITDA as well as EPS for 2024.

And if I think about some of that, I think it's important understand where are the big buckets we're going to be investing in that, and I'll talk about it in the two segments. One is on the Patient Direct side. So, we're aggressively adding commercial people because we believe, with the proven commercial model we have, as we scale that up, that can drive long term growth and we started adding personnel in the fourth quarter, teammates in the fourth quarter. We're continuing that in Q1 and Q2.

What also should be noted is, if we're going to add, call it, 70-plus percent teammates in the commercial organization on that side of the business, those teammates don't have a positive return or they breakeven after around 12 months and then they start to show very strong positive returns. So that's an example of taking some of that profit or savings and putting it into long term profit investments.

The other thing in Patient Direct is really around focusing on the sleep journey and making sure that we can have unique technology to capture and maintain our patients in that side of the business. So those are just two simple examples on that side of the business.

The other aspect on the savings is, again, pouring it back into investments and, again, not just pulling it through to earnings. But on Products and Healthcare Services, it's really around a couple areas. It's around our investment in our category management.

And I think the thing that's important on that is, as a company, we've been talking for years about expanding our proprietary portfolio. We're putting in the infrastructure, so that way, we can do that. So there's significant investment being made in personnel to expand that proprietary product portfolio, understand the marketing, partnering with our customers, and then the commercial front end of that. In addition to that, investments in technology around some of our services we offer, as well as in data analytics.

I say that as a backdrop because what I don't want the market to get confused on is we have operating model realignment that generated more than $40 million of benefit this year$, 100 million run rate that all of that is going to get pushed through to the bottom line, we're actually taking that and reinvesting that in the business for future growth and future EBITDA benefits as we move forward. So that I think helps capture the earnings part of EBITDA.

Alex, I think if there's any other highlights outside of that, besides covering in the operating model realignment, how that carries through?

I'll add one last comment on the 75/25 comment. Legislation continues to be discussed throughout Congress on that. But the way we thought about it is we built in the impact that it would have on us. In addition to that, identifying ways to offset that as we move forward throughout the year.

I'll just add one other comment. As we start to see growth in our medical distribution and our global products business, whether that's through implementation of new wins, whether that's through expanding our proprietary product portfolio, we are going to make the appropriate investments in inventory. So that way, as we scale and that business grows, we have the ability to service our customers. In addition to that, just so everyone understands, the cycle of bringing on new proprietary products, generally, you're going to have them in inventory before you start to sell them in the market. In addition to that, you want to make sure you bring in the right amount. So as that ramps, you don't have service issues.

So there are going to be some investments in inventory in 2024 really related to three things. One is new win implementations. The second aspect of that is proprietary product portfolio expansion. And third is your ability to drive higher levels of service.

And those are all good reasons to add inventory.

No, I think it's more of a long term driver. And I used two examples, one on both sides of this each segment on the personnel adds and the teammate adds on the commercial side in our Patient Direct business. We know clearly, after 12 months or so, that becomes breakeven and then highly profitable as it accelerates. So, yes, on Patient Direct side.

And then very similar on the Products and Healthcare Services side of the business, building out the teams to do that, that is going to be an SG&A investment upfront, with benefit as time progresses.

Yeah, that's one that should start to implement – it's going to start implementing in March. So next month, we'll start to implement that business. We haven't quantified the dollar amount, but it's a meaningful win. It'll end up being one of our top 10 customers overall once we put it into the system. And it is a combination of a portion of our customers we did have an expansion. And so, it's a meaningful win and that'll begin in March.

Stephanie, you're right. It's not linear. And we wanted to make sure that – when we talked about at Investor Day, we gave a 2028 full-year end-of-year target there. And part of it is the investments that are being made. Again, I use two different examples. Again, one is on the commercial aspect of what we're going to do in our Patient Direct business. The second aspect is some of the technology we're using in Patient Direct, both of those are going to have benefits associated with them. And again, they're going to have benefits after they get implemented. So those are things that have meaningful paybacks 12 months plus out.

I think very similar on the Products and Healthcare Services business. You're absolutely right, if we think about the portfolio expansion, those are things that take time to develop. It's something that I was reminded been trying to do for years, but you have to make sure you have the investments upfront, and part of what we're leveraging is the operating model realignment savings we have. We're redeploying that back into longer term investments, like the product aspect.

The other aspect is network rationalization and optimization. That's something that doesn't happen overnight. It's something that we're aggressively looking at right now. But we know that's going to take time to execute on and then that will provide material benefits as we get into the future.

So, that's why when we looked at our internal strategic plan for the five year period of time, in 2024, if you look at our range, it provides, we think, pretty good reasonable returns, but also it's enabling us to make significant investments to provide those higher, longer term returns.

I think probably your first assumption is closer. 2024 is more of an investment year, but it's still going to provide – if you just take the midpoint of our range, it's still providing double-digit growth in EPS, adjusted EPS at the midpoint of our guidance.

In addition to that, so what we're trying to do is balance that as we go through 2024 with the right investments for long term, but still providing the right level of returns in the short term.

I think as you exit 2024, there's still some – things are going to take longer. The network rationalization and optimization, that's something that will bleed into 2025. But as we continue to come out of 2024 and into 2025 and then continue to progress, you'll see that ramp, accelerate in the out years even faster.

And that's really been the beauty of what we've done with the operating model realignment program, is it's enabled us to take costs out, it's enabled us to drive improved cash flow and profitability, and then take those dollars and invest them in areas that may take a longer term to get a payback, but still not impact the short term returns. Again, taking the midpoint of adjusted EPS from 2023 to 2024, still going to be a double-digit growth while we're still investing materially in the business for long term success.

Eric, no impact at all. It's actually working with the contractor to get the facility built. That's the delay on the construction. We've actually extended our long term deal with WVU. And so, there's zero impact on 2024. That business, we've had for the last two years. It's been served out of another distribution center. It'll continue to be served out of another distribution center until we get the facility completed. WVU has been an incredible partner to us. And there'd be no impact at all in 2024 because we are serving the business out of another distribution center and it's just a matter of getting the new one up and running for them.

Thank you, operator. First of all, I want to thank everyone who joined us on the call today. Besides those on the call, I want to thank our teammates across the globe that have really worked tremendously in 2023 and to position us to where we are today. I also want to thank our customers, our patients, our partners, as well as our shareholders.

As we reflect on where we are, we firmly believe that we have the right team in place. And even more than that, we have the right strategy. That strategy has enabled us to continue the momentum that we've accelerated during the year as we saw tremendous progress from Q1 to Q2 to Q3 to Q4 and exited the year with strength.

So as you can see, I'm pretty excited about where we are right now, but even more excited about the future. And I look forward to sharing our progress with you as the year progresses.

So just again, thank you everyone for joining us today and look forward to talking again after the first quarter results. Thank you.