Edward B. Pitoniak
VICI Properties Inc. (VICI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll start, Tony, and good morning. Good to speak with you and then John and David can kick in. I would say that in the spirit of our opening remarks, we're obviously sober as you've heard from other REITs in recent weeks like [agri] (ph) and realty income. We're sober about the marketplace. We're sober about the capital markets and we're pretty sober about what kind of activity may be available to us.

And yet having said that, John and the team continue to work the trap lines in such a way that we have a number of conversations going on both in gaming and non-gaming that have us very excited and John can talk about that in a moment. The other point I want to emphasize, Tony, is that the magnitude of what we own brings with it opportunities you wouldn't necessarily find in other REITs given the nature of the property they own, especially when we look at Las Vegas, where we've got, I think John, 40,000 odd hotel rooms.

If you look just at an asset like The Venetian, which including parking is 17 million square feet, given what's going on there, given the impact of this sphere, the opportunity of Patrick and Nicole and the team to continue to asset manage, maximize the productivity of that asset is so, so strong. I mean, it's a magnitude of building.

And again, this goes back to my opening remarks that we are going to continue to help the investment marketplace understand the magnitude of building such that there are 300,000 square feet inside the 17 million square feet that have never gone past the concrete stage, concrete floors, concrete walls, concrete ceilings 300,000 unfinished square feet.

And with the job that the team at the Venetian is doing to maximize that asset, especially taking advantage of this sphere, that represents incremental investment opportunity or growth opportunity for us that you wouldn't likely find in most other REITs generally and certainly not in triple-net lease REITs generally which tend to have assets of 10,000 square feet not 17 million square feet. But John, you want to add to this?

Okay. Another way of putting it, Tony, is we're not assuming any credit or horsepower from the funding and we're taking actually a marginal penalty by virtue of having it on our well, we technically, we don't have it on our balance sheet, but given the treasury stock method.

Well, clearly, Barry, we want to be as opportunistic as we can be within our timing given the inherent nature of a call option. And obviously, that timing will be predicated on what our cost of funding is. And I don't think it would come as any surprise to anybody that we certainly would not choose to exercise our call option if in doing so we were creating dilution, which we don't ever want to do.

And so, going back to the theme of, skiing inside a milk bottle, the visibility through 2024 given its current state is such that it's hard to predict with any kind of exactitude exactly when the right time would be.

Yes. I'll start and I'll turn it over to John. Barry, I read the notes from that recent session you had, which were really interesting to read. I know one of the participants in your session sounded rather, I won't say bullish, but seemed to say that there may be means to do it. I will tell you with complete candor, we haven't exactly figured out how that would work yet, John, right?

And Caitlin, let me just add on to that a little bit. Obviously, there have been questions understandably as to VICI, why don't you just do gaming and only gaming? And as we have emphasized in many, many occasions, we are still for all of the time remaining going to be intensely focused on gaming given what a great business within Wichita real estate. But one of the real benefits of investing in other experiential categories is well, first of all, comes with the fact that it's just fundamentally great real estate occupied by operators who offer very rich and profitable experiences to their end customers.

So, that's the fundamental reason to invest in other experiential. It's fundamentally good real estate. The second dimension to that is that, it gives us a chance to grow when growth may not be available for gaming. And related to that, and this goes back to your initial question, Caitlin, one of the advantages we see in experiential operators like a Cabot, like a Canyon Ranch, like a Bowlero, like a Great Wolf, is they have network growth opportunities that are not as readily available to our gaming operators. The nature of growth in new stores and gaming is such that it is always subject to very strict regulatory control.

For Cabot, as an example, on the other hand, they have a global growth opportunity that can be seized with great energy and does not suffer the restrictions, or the slowing down of cadence that tends to apply to gaming operators attempting to grow their network other than through M&A.

And then to go back to the first part of your question, it will always be a minor percentage of our assets under management and we will use it to forge relationships. We have an example obviously right in front of us of using lending to establish a relationship with Chelsea Piers that led to the acquisition of the primary leasehold interest in December.

So, we will use it both as a strategic tool to develop relationships and a strategic tool to create a steadier cadence to our capital allocation. We're very proud of the fact that we got capital out the door every single month in 2023. And I can tell you in our early years, there were whole quarters that went by where we did not get capital out the door, given what was true back then, which was that the nature of our capital allocation was big and lumpy, tied to big lumpy gaming acquisitions.

So, it is a tool that can generate growth and return on a very steady basis. It is a strategic tool to forge relationships. And again, given some of the spreads we've been able to achieve in recent years, it is very lucrative, very accretive in driving earnings growth. And again, we're about creating earnings growth that others may not be able to achieve if they're not as energetic and pioneering as we have been both in terms of how we grow the business in terms of asset classes and through the use of our balance sheet.

Yes. Well, as I said in response to Barry, obviously, 7.7 is not as attractive as when it was struck a few years back when the call agreement was struck a few years back. And it will be a call opportunity. We will be excited about executing if it's an accretive opportunity and if it's not an accretive opportunity. If in fact there would be a dilutive opportunity at 7.7, we would not do it.

Well, yes, Chris. So, the rent coverage, by virtue of the current call agreement is set, but, it is a subject to discussion, and one we have and would like to continue to explore with Caesars, such that on an overall basis, they and we are at rent coverages that everybody feels really good about for decades to come.

Yes. So, you are right, Greg. If we're partnering with an experiential operator that's not public, the tenant financials are not crystal clear in the same way they're not crystal clear across a whole lot of net lease portfolios. And at the end of the day, we obviously have to exercise our fiduciary responsibility to the greatest degree possible in ensuring that the fundamental business is very, very supportive of the rent and the way in which our operating partners manage their balance sheets and liquidity is also of a strength that ensures that they won't be in positions where they're unable to meet the rent.

We've got a very rigorous underwriting practice. We obviously can take advantage of history in many of the categories, experiential categories that we're investing in. And again, at the end of the day, it's up to us to make sure that they are of a strength, that's going to enable them to weather whatever should come their way.

But I will also emphasize that our key criteria, our first of four criteria in evaluating all investments, gaming and experiential widely, is that the businesses be of lower than average cyclicality versus consumer discretionary at large, which we think is another risk mitigant when it comes to ensuring that they can cover the rent through thick and thin.

Well, last dollar exposure is obviously one of the key criteria and ensuring that our last dollar exposure is at a level whereby if we did end up owning the asset that the operating economics are such that at the last dollar exposure level that we would be lending at, we're still in good shape.

No, it's a very fair strategic question, Greg, and it's a question we regularly wrestle with. I would say one of the ways in which we deal with, if you will, the underinvestment risk in G&A is by, I think, having forged some of the strongest partnership relationships of anybody out there. From day one, we have treated our advisors as best as we possibly can. This means the investment banks, the other parties, the real estate advisory firms, such that we are always the first they call when they think there's a compelling opportunity. They are a force multiplier for us. And we have great respect for them. We engage with them intensely. We reward them when they do great work for us. And in the event, we end up saving on G&A, which in an inflationary period has really two benefits, overall low G&A to begin with and less inflationary impact on our G&A load.

If it ever gets to the point where we feel we're short changing shareholders by running too thin, we will certainly add resources in the way we've obviously added resources here in the last couple of years. Thank you, Greg, we’ll move on to the next question.

Yes. And Nick, you've given me the opportunity to vent a little bit about how utterly weary I am around the negativity of so much of the media coverage, which regularly gets proven to be way overly negative. Oh my God, this sphere is going to be a disaster. I was in the U.K. earlier this week. I was struck by how many people wanted to talk about this sphere because they'd either already been or they're determined to go. And again, media coverage around that, oh my god. Oh, F1 is going to be a disaster. Well, guess what? It wasn't. The drivers loved it. The teams loved it. It was an amazing weekend of business for our operating partners.

So Super Bowl, again, just a phenomenal event for Las Vegas and for the NFL. So, I absolutely agree with you. Some of the press coverage has been quite negative, but we know the people involved, we know how hard they're working, we know how challenging what it is that they've set forth for themselves to open an unaffiliated property on the strip. And yet again, that asset is utterly magnificent and they're doing the right things to bring business to it over time.

And with the backing of Coke, you can be sure that the backing is strong enough that they have the patience, but moreover the firepower to make this work in due course.

Nick, are you talking about cap rate variability across various experiential asset classes?

Yes. I don't know, John and David, I don't know that we've seen a tremendous amount of variability across asset classes. We're obviously not seeing a tremendous amount of trading. And yet you obviously saw with our unlevered 7.7% yield for the $1.8 billion we put out the door in 2023, that we have obviously been able to acquire income at higher yields.

I would have a tough time generalizing, but David and John, I don’t know if you want to add.

It's definitely widening.

Yes. And I'll give you an example of that, Jim. When you really begin to know a category as David has spoken of, as you get to know that, if you will, the water experience category, which we first invested in through Great Wolf. What's really been remarkable over the last few years is the way in which really creative innovative operators are taking water experiences and continuing to innovate around them, not simply for kids losing their minds and spending their parents' money at Great Wolf, but also water experiences that are more focused on an adult crowd.

And that's really exciting to witness because of the growth opportunities it represents within the category and across multiple geographies.

Yes, that would be a tenant matter, so we wouldn't comment on that.

Thank you, Jim.

And, Dan, you're talking about, how is the competitive landscape of lending, evolved over the last few years?

Yes. Well, obviously, we're looking at a period over the last couple of years in which conventional bank financing has definitely diminished as a source of funding for experiential placemakers and operators. And at the same time, obviously, you've seen the upsurge of private credit of which we are part.

And I would say that in many cases, we are being invited in to the funding opportunity because of our track record in experiential and the endorsement that our underwriting process brings to a project that we choose to be involved in.

We obviously look at them really rigorously and we again, I would say, we get invited in a lot to processes as opposed to having to scour the landscape, and throw our hats in the ring.

Yes. And then I think John, we can add in obviously MGM, the MGM property in Yonkers should they be granted a full gaming license that will obviously that's property we already owned Daniel, that would obviously represent a significant incremental investment opportunity, but contingent, of course, on how the license award process plays out.

Oh, boy. That would be a pretty big number, Jay. The check sizes you're referring to, they may look small in relation to our overall scale. But I would tell you in returns, they're pretty big checks. These are not small assets and they're certainly not small and economic productivity. And so, if we can do $50 million to $100 million and up loans on assets that we either have a direct path to ownership on or a potential path to ownership on, you add those up and you can get to $1 billion in aggregate.

But obviously, by not having it all in one single investment, we are obviously spreading out our risk and amplifying our opportunities to develop new relationships.

Yes. I would say, John, it's professional sports. It's obviously the emergence of this sphere. It's the overall growth of Las Vegas. And we obviously have the vacant land, but probably even more valuable is the land we already own. You referred to the triangle formed by A Stadium, T-Mobile and Allegiant. We own everything inside that triangle. MGM operates everything inside that triangle. If you think about where the A Stadium is going to go, we own three of those four corners in MGM Grand, Excalibur and New York, New York.

I know MGM is very excited about the repositioning opportunities at Dallas Four Corners and it applies to so many of the other assets that we own up and down the strip, as well as you say that vacant land. I just can't again emphasize enough how incredibly valuable it is to have the position we have in Las Vegas, because Las Vegas is reaching a global critical mass that really no other place on earth right now rivals, not Orlando, not Macau, the way things have evolved there.

Las Vegas is a category of one and we are very happy to be the leading owner of real estate in a place that is a global category of one.

We actually have printed a few, and if anybody really, really wants one, they should give me a call at their earliest convenience.

Thanks, John. Elliot, I think we're probably about wrapped up, right?

Thank you, Elliot, and thanks everyone for your time today. And please, please do go to www.viciproperties.com under our Portfolio heading to view our brand new VICI Properties photo book. It's a magnificent book about your magnificent properties. Bye for now.
