Eric Evans
Surgery Partners, Inc. (SGRY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. And thanks for the question, Brian, and the comments. We're really excited about ankles and shoulders getting taken off the in-patient-only list. As you probably remember, we talked about this during COVID. We had a hospital without walls, ASCs, they were able to safely do these procedures. And so, the evidence has been apparent for a while that we're the best place to do these. There are thousands of cases amongst our existing surgeons they can't bring today. So, it's a meaningful opportunity.

As Wayne mentioned, too, when surgeons have to schedule those cases at a hospital, they tend to take their day, right? And so, that's -- we see that as a real opportunity just for convenience. And again, our existing doctors who use us have a lot of cases, we know exactly where those cases are going. We're already working to move those over in January -- in February. We've been working hard on that. And then there's obviously shoulder specialists in our markets that now fall right into our recruitment pipeline.

So, we were excited about the opportunity. It certainly reinforces our confidence in total joint growth. And just one more example is as things get added to the ASC list, the opportunity to create value for the system and to create value for Surgery Partners shareholders is tremendous.

Maybe I'll take that. Go ahead, Wayne.

Yeah, before I hand it over to Dave to kind of talk about that program a little more specifically, I would just on the mix and rate question, it's primarily mix. Like, we've had success obviously in rate, but most of what drives that is our increased acuity and focus around recruitment and higher acuity service lines.

But Dave, I'll turn it over to you on his specific question.

Sure. Happy to talk about that, and we're excited about our health system partners. I should reiterate, we have a lot of inbounds on health system partnerships. We're very selective on choosing like-minded partners or choosing markets where otherwise our entry has either been constrained or it's been states that have been hard to enter. All of those partnerships are actually moving along quite nicely.

When we think about the partnerships that we have entered, we're looking for partners that will allow us to get to double-digit ASCs over a three- to five-year period. So, these are meaningful partnerships. The timing of that -- we've got -- we obviously have within our guidance this year the timing we expect for 2024, but because so much of this is de novo, there will be some acquisitions.

I think it's hard to say when exactly this timing will happen over a three to five-year period, but I think you should be thinking when we sign a health system partner, our goal is to get to double-digit centers with that partner within a three- to five-year window, and we're super excited about each of our four partners we've announced, and they are long-term strategic partners who are like-minded with us on the transition of surgical cases to the right side-of-care to create value for the system.

Sure. Yeah, happy to. We've grown our robotics portfolio a lot. We've added quite a few in 2023. We're at nearly 50 robots. I would say this that related just to shoulders and ankles, there might be a little bit of demand for robotics. We have a lot of those well covered. I would also say that when we add robotics, to remind you, those are financed locally, so not a huge CapEx impact, and actually the ROI on those have been incredibly strong. And so, we agree with the medtech enthusiasm on the opportunity to continue to grow robotics in our facilities. We do that offensively though. So, you think about this, this is really to attract new opportunities and to go into new service lines, we'll do that. It's a little bit different than some of our peers who often are upgrading robotics just to kind of keep up with technology for the same book of business. For us, it's really a great offensive play, and we would share medtech's enthusiasm on that.

Dave, I don't know if you want to add anything?

Sure. Thank you.

Before we wrap up, I would like to reiterate how proud I am of my colleagues and physician partners who collaborate to deliver on our mission to enhance patient quality of life through partnership. Their working contributions allow us to deliver consistent and predictable results and drive sustained growth for all of our stakeholders. Most importantly, they also continue to serve our communities with the highest clinical care in a low-cost setting with the convenience and professionalism all our facilities are known to provide.

Thank you all for joining our call this morning, and have a great day.