Eric Yuan
Zoom Video Communications, Inc. (ZM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. So yes, first of all, that's a great question about AI. I think your question about AI sort of reminds me of 1995, 1996, when Internet was -- the first wave of Internet revolution. I was so excited. That's why I moved to Silicon Valley, right, to embrace that first wave of revolution. And since then I was a stuck for real-time collaboration until today. I can tell you, speaking of AI, I'm as excited as 1995, maybe sorry I'm wrong, maybe more excited than 1995, 1996, given my engineering and product background. I think AI [Indiscernible] sort of faces a challenge; at the same time, also have a huge opportunity ahead of us, right?

Given our strong innovation culture, I think AI can truly help Zoom, right, to evolve us -- to cut sort of part of the Zoom 2.0 journey, right? I think Zoom may be the AI-first company. Speaking of specifically features how to leverage AI. And even before we talk about ChatGPT and talk about all those AI, actually, we already invest having on AI, right? So some customers may not see that, right? Like noise reduction, even with background, a lot of things like that. Even recently, we announced a feature called Zoom Smart and Meeting Summary where we already leveraged GPT-3 to augment our ML to improve that experience. And we are going to double down and triple down on AI a lot of features like Virtual Agent or Zoom IQ for Sales, our chat solution, even [Indiscernible] as well, I think AI can truly empower everything we are doing here and will benefit the customers. Plus we are taking a very open approach. And we have our own AI engineers, a lot of talents working very hard and also are going to partner with other companies. OpenAI is a great company and just plugged recently. And this is great. Again, I can talk a lot about AI. I'm very, very excited.

So when it comes to money better to delegate it to Kelley, probably she is better to have managed that so.

Yes, I think that's a good question. First of all, I don't think that we will depart -- it’s departure to what are we trying to do before, so meaning more like an augment to whatever doing now. Because given a lot of new opportunities, I do not think everything should be done by our own developers, right? And that's why we also want to leverage the third party. I do -- not something tuning as a strategy, just more augment to what we're doing today.

Yes, Kelly, please go ahead.

I think -- great question. I think we sort of focused on both. I take Phone for example, the market potential is still huge. And we are doing extremely well and will help us more because given the product, very reliable as it's really innovation and better than any other phone service providers. That's why on core part, I see the huge growth opportunity. On to side of that, the new products Zoom Contact Center, Virtual Agent and Zoom IQ for Sales down the road, and more and more department of applications, in particular AI and is not a grid layer, I feel like a lot of new opportunity ahead of us.

I think in the second half of this year, probably the transition period for us, given the -- we launched the Contact Center early last year, Zoom IQ for Sales as well. Although the new services, plus new services in the pipeline, I think, will help us. We need to focus on both. The reason why our real distributor are all-in-one collaboration platform, right? You can leave within a Zoom interface, can get most of work done, right? I think that that's our business.

Yes, that's a great question. First of all, I would say, last year, we developed more than 1,500 features. I think our team worked extremely hard. But one thing we did not do well, I think we should improve -- read about the product adoption and say, after we finish the development features, we also need to remember customers may not know it. Again, this is something important for us this year. Having said that, a lot of customers in order to find a lot of good features, take NASDAQ for example, right? They would like to consolidate like meeting with a Whiteboard as well. It has a Whiteboard. They really like that, right? And also now the feature, we will also have a Team Chat, which is a precision chat solutions. We use that for many years, a lot of invest customers also deployed. Why do they want to pay for other services off their phone wall.

Zoom has a very scalable also very flexible, the grid and the Team Chat solution after they found that they tested, they also like that, right? They also doubled all those features. A lot of things like that, not to mention the sales department, right? And upsell Zoom IQ for Sales opportunity. Again, a lot of innovations but we need focus on product adoption, let the customer know that there’s huge value from the Zoom platform, right? So that's something we need to focus on. And quite a few -- probably all use Zoom Team Chat. I can tell you, again, it's much better, Whiteboard as well. So anyway, a lot of features, innovations, we should focus on adoption.

Yes, great question. So on product front, right? So we are -- we launched it early last year, right, almost one-year anniversary now. I think we are going to keep innovating and essentially, today, look at our -- the Contact Center customer, we just closed the 2,000 seat contact center solution, right? We tested everything well. Zoom Contact Center works very well, not only for the -- just -- like early last year, we won quite a few deals for internal IT helpdesk. This is for the support agent, right? A lot of features are already built in. I think the protocol front in adding any more and more features very quickly. I think we are doing very well. I have a huge confidence for our team -- product team. However, on the go to market side, I think we should have done a better job, to be honest with you, right? And because the buyer is different, right? The good news over the past 12 months, we learned a lot, working to sort of change our go-to-market strategy, right? And make sure all those traditional customers no matter which on-premise solution and deploy or other cloud contact center deployed, we should let them know, right? Zoom has very scalable contact center solutions like those third-party resellers, right, and also we need to change our go-to-market model for contact center because the product works so well. So that part, I think we need to focus on this year.

No, that's great.

Yes. Normally -- it is a great question. It comes from upmarket opportunities, right? And a lot of our SMB customers, they do not use like Whiteboard and some other cool features. As an Enterprise customer, given the economic uncertainty and challenged cost reduction, they would like to consolidate, right, into one platform, right? And most of the tool from a total window perspective. When you look at the Zoom product, they're trying to understand what kind of other services features they can leverage more and then also toggle with my Whiteboard and Team Chat, Contact Center, Zoom IQ for Sales, more and more upsell opportunity. This is a great time for those upmarket customers, especially commercial and enterprise customers, right? Because they already trust our brand. They know those services they’re provided for example, they know we are doing innovating. They know our service will be better than others, why not deploy Zoom Whiteboard. This is a great example.

So given this is the Phone question, maybe I should launch the ChatGPT, let it answer to your questions, it’s better. So I might give you a fun answer. Well, anyway, I think monday.com interesting, right? Because the reason why I invest in -- a lot of our customers, they also -- especially in Europe, right, also deploy the service, they would like them to integrate with us and also they’re also Zoom customers as well. I think as far as I know. And I think it's more like from a customer perspective, right, the one -- also working together, right, to integrate with them, that's reason why I invest in them, right? Cvent, for example, during COVID, right, and a lot of customers deployed our Zoom and more Webinars and Zoom Events. And especially for those hybrid events, right, in-person events, we are more like a pure technology platform, right? We’re also in some other components to help to make sure we have streamlined your events management. That's why we partnered with Cvent, right? We see the opportunity to further solidify our leadership, why not to invest in them. I think given now it's more a company we support hybrid work, I think Cvent -- I think they will do well. That's another reason why we invested in them, yes. So that's pretty much. Maybe my answer not as fun as the ChatGPT, but that's pretty much I can do.

Thank you, all. Really appreciate you time. Love you, all. Thank you. Take care.
