Eric Hansotia
AGCO Corporation (AGCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And this is Eric. I'll just build on that a little bit. Damon is spot on. We still see more runway in front of us. So the Fendt just -- great products, as Damon talked about. The other half of that is distribution network. We've grown our -- in North America, we've grown our distribution network from about 40% coverage to now 80% coverage. Last time we updated it was at 75%. We grew that another 5 points in 2023. Our target is to get it over 90% in North America. In South America, we've grown that from 0 to -- a year ago, it was 70%. Now we're at 74%. Again, that target is 90%. So we still have -- we have new products coming to the market through our innovation engine. We've got distribution expansion opportunities still in front of us for Fendt. On Precision Ag, still a lot of growth opportunities around the world. We -- in the last several years, we've grown in North America from 350 dealers to 500, outside North America from 50 dealers to 120.

And we still have a lot of headroom ahead of us in terms of our distribution build-out for the Precision Ag business. And we continue to grow our innovation around the crop cycle. This year's theme was, as I mentioned, solutions for every season. So although we're growing this year, we still see much more in front of us.

Maybe just to build on that, too, from a top-down perspective, I think your inherent question is can South America be a profitable region since we had a low profit 1 quarter. Well, the 3 quarters before that were all 20-plus margins. And from a top-down perspective, if you look at is the farmer in South America going to be profitable. We think strongly yes. That's the market where in much of the region you can plant 2 crops, sometimes more. You -- right behind the combine comes the planter and so you're taking off soybeans and planting corn right behind it. It's a tropical climate. It's the area where more land can be put into production, highly intensively planted and harvested.

So over the next 20 years, we've talked about for a long time, the world needs more green. Brazil is going to be a big part of supplying the world and that means that the -- and the infrastructure keeps getting better to make the Brazilian farmer more effective -- efficient. So we're bullish on Brazil as a market. We think the farmer is going to be adding a lot of value and profitable. And so then we're doing all the things that Damon talked about to make sure that we can support that farmer in an efficient way with our supply chain.

And then to build on that mix, like you said, there's a channel element for Fendt. Our new products are coming into the market. In Europe, we've got the e100 coming in, the first electric tractor for Fendt. And on the low end, Turkey, we think, is going to contract as a market, or at least not nearly -- not grow nearly as much as it has. And that's a low-horsepower, lower-margin market, in general. So there's -- although the overall market is cooling, there's a lot of positive mix elements embedded in Europe.

Yes. So JV is going right on track. We've hired an outside partner to help us with integration planning. That's going extremely well. We've got a lot of good cooperation, teamwork, culture building, plan generation happening on every element of the business to make sure that we're ready on day 1 and that we can capture the synergies of bringing these 2 great businesses together and serving farmers better than anybody else in the industry. Regulatory approval is tracking according to plan. We've already gotten approval from several of the regions. Still have a few that are in process but that's proceeding as planned. And according to the time line that we out laid, we think it will be in the first half of this year.

And then, we still are on-track -- we still are standing behind our commitments of short-term accretion and longer-term growth to a $2 billion Precision Ag business being the industry leader in serving mixed fleet Precision Ag farmers all around the world, whether it's through retrofit or serving over 100 other OEMs in a very confidential and unique bespoke way or through AGCO machine enhancements. We're really excited about that.

Yes. Just briefly, I'll close today by saying thank you very much for your participation and your support of our -- of AGCO. We're really proud of our performance through 2023. It was an absolute record year in so many ways for our customers, for our employees, for our investors. It sets us for a -- on a trajectory path for our results to be much more resilient through the cycle. And we've been talking about that for a couple of years now and it's all coming home to roost and I would hope that you're as excited about that as we are.

The key to our success is the continued execution of our Farmer-First strategy. Our focus is on growing our margin-rich businesses like Fendt, parts and service and our Precision Ag business which we've been investing in heavily over the last few years. The announcement of the pending AGCO-Trimble joint venture represents the biggest agtech deal in history and will enable AGCO to become the global industry leader in mixed fleet Precision Ag solutions with our unique focus on retrofit solutions.

Over the last few quarters, we've touched on many of the factors supporting our markets, including growing populations, changing diets, low stocks-to-use levels, increased demand for biofuels and relatively healthy commodity prices. All of these trends give us confidence in the long-term health of our industry. We're excited. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming weeks and months. Thank you and have a great day.

