Erik Gershwind
MSC Industrial Direct Co., Inc. (MSM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Dave. So on the revenue front, what I'd say is - basically what we're assuming, and I think Kristen alluded to this in going through the framework, is a roughly flat IP through the year. The reason revenues are where there are is you have two things. One is, as you mentioned, it's about a 150 basis point headwind for non-recurring public sector orders. So if you take the midpoint of our guidance at 250.

There's another 150 basis points or so for non-recurring orders. The other thing I'd say is it's also in recognition, Dave, we're coming out of the gate slow - slower than we otherwise would have, because of the UAW situation. And in the prepared remarks, we talked about low single-digits in terms of points to growth impact. So September and October, we're a little more than halfway through here. But September, we have under our belt at half of October are going to be lower than the midpoint.

So that is factoring into our equation. In terms of bounce back, that is not factored in. So what we are assuming is that the UAW situation releases itself, before the end of the calendar year. And that things restore to more of a neutral, or flat IP situation, it does not account, for any big bounce back that certainly could happen.

Thanks, Dave.

Yes, Steve, certainly, I'll take a shot here and then Kristen can chime in to fill in any dots here. But certainly, if you look and you go Q4 to September, the Q4 and even August, growth number, it's certainly a big drop. I think one thing just to sort of walk you growth rate from where we were tracking Q4 to Q1, you have a couple of things going on. So one, certainly, the non-repeating public sector orders were about three points of that.

So that brings you down to about 6%. There is a bit of a timing on the lapping of an acquisition, it's 0.5 point or so. But basically, you're looking at somewhere in the 5%, 5.5% range without those factors down to what's in the 13% range for September and something similar, to what we're projecting for October. Of that, what we were saying is in the low single-digit range, you could add back for UAW.

So yes, I think you're back of the envelope on saying, about the sequential step down about half and half, is a reasonable ballpark, meaning half related to UAW and then certainly a little bit of softening, which isn't surprising to us, given what's going on at all of the macro indices.

I would - I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I would call it general slowing. The real interesting thing here is it's hard to find a bright line between what's auto related and what's not. And what I mean by that is we have some direct auto exposure. The bigger issue for MSC, of course, is what would be coded as a machine shop, a fab shop, a lot of - there's a portion of their business that is auto related.

So there's tentacles to the strike that extend, beyond just the direct SIC codes, if you'd look at auto. But more broadly, I would say general softening. You certainly do have some pockets of strength still like aerospace, of course, but more general softening, again, I think, consistent with what we've been tracking with the IP and the sentiment readings.

Good morning, Tom.

Yes. Sure, Tommy. So to answer your first question, direct exposure, roughly in the range of 10%, maybe a little bit under 10%. Indirect exposure, as I mentioned, tough to get our arms around specifically, but - certainly, it would take that number up considerably when we were referring to kind of MSC's bread and butter of machine shops, fab shops and job shops. So that's in terms of the first part.

In terms of the color I'd provide. We stay pretty close to the ground with our sales force. And we're getting regular reports and some of the reports are temporary halts in production, which would be sort of a more direct example of what we're talking about due to a strike either at a customer or a customer of a customer. And then the other is, as you said, there are customers who are further down in the chain in the auto supply chain, who are expressly more caution, and are just clamping down on spending.

And we have examples of that, where some of our vending customers that's basically buy only what you need. And so, we're seeing a lot of the - almost like what we described in the MSC world of clamping down on discretionary spending, we're seeing the same thing at a lot of our customers.

Good morning, ken.

Well, Ken, what I'd say is you could see, I mean, we're tracking towards the lower end of the range through September and our estimate for October, right? So that gives you a feel for, if this were to continue, what would have to be the case for the lower end. We're kind of in it now. And look, we had to make some assumptions. Our visibility is somewhat narrow, as you limited like all of us.

As you suggested, that's why the range is slightly larger. But look, I think the punchline is if this were extended, you're seeing what it's doing now. But certainly, to the extent this alleviates itself at some point, there is a lift to come. And then as we were talking with Dave earlier, if there were a bounce in response, more of a lift. And obviously, in the meantime, all the while Ken, we're focused on share capture.

And so, I was encouraged while we can only control so much, I was encouraged right out of the gates in September, despite the lower growth our sales team's execution was strong. So vending signings up over 50%. VMI signing is up over 25%. Those are the things that Kristen mentioned sort of a build in back half some of the initiatives coming online.

In addition to some of the bigger programs, just better execution in a tough environment, when local distributors are vulnerable, gives us confidence, because all of those signings will lead to new agreements, which lead to revenue as we move along the fiscal.

Hi Ryan.

Chris, so the - basically, the e-commerce improvements and the heavy lifting on this is done. So Kristen mentioned in the D&A, the impact of the P&L, the good news is the work is done. The rollout will be occurring really over the next quarter or so. So customers will begin to - that's when the customers will begin seeing an impact. We're pretty encouraged. What I would say is, it's factored in to our guidance for basically what Kristen described coming out of the gates here were slow.

We expect some sequential build in part, because of this UAW situation at some point, of course, normalizing, but in part, because of the initiatives, and that's a piece of it. I think what we expect to happen with e-commerce, is it's not going to be a light switch. This will build over time. It is one of the things though that gives us confidence beyond this year, looking at kind of with a three-year lens, a multiyear lens.

What gets us excited as we look back to the prior three-year chapter and we achieved our growth targets, or we exceeded the growth over IP without really getting the engine of our core customer growing, we think this is a big piece to it. So, I don't think it will be a light switch, but I do think we're going to start seeing benefits, beyond the next quarter.

Thanks, Chris.

Good morning.

Yes, Pat, sure. So maybe I'll touch on the strategy. Kristen can follow-up just on the growth differential, but I'll give you the punchline. So, what we're doing here and look, our pricing strategy has always been around a list price as a jump-off point to get to a net price for our customer. We feel very good about our pricing. And first, I'd say our value proposition is a high price value prop.

And don't intend on changing that. We bring a lot of value in the way of technical expertise to our customers. We do command a premium relative to the traditional distributor that's warranted and that's not changing. What isn't a change, is as we look in any case where we're touching a customer consistently, with a salesperson and a relationship, our pricing is competitive.

What we have found, and I think we've alluded to this before that there's cases where we're not touching a customer as regularly with a salesperson. It may be a direct marketing relationship, and there are times where our pricing is not competitive. And with that - certainly, it's not competitive without jumping through some hoops on discounting. And so, what we're looking to do, is identify and isolate those cases.

Both in terms of SKUs and customers and make adjustments, so that we're presenting out of the gate a more competitive price. The work is - basically, this will be going out. The work most of the heavy lifting, again, is done. It will be coming in flight in the next one to two quarters. And basically, we feel we're doing this as we've modeled out with minimal, if any, margin dilution.

Because of the way, we've structured this and the idea is just bringing a better price to the customer out of the gate. Our feeling is absolutely that along with the web improvements, this will reenergize the core customer. And you are correct, we absolutely feel that post this adjustment, the core customer gross margin will still be healthily above company average and certainly, well above the growth drivers that have been driving most of the growth.

So your estimate is certainly not out of the ballpark in terms of basis points. But that's one of the reasons, we're excited as we move past. Kristen talked about some of the challenges in the first couple of quarters, you get past the first couple of quarters of '24 into the back half into '25. This gets to be a pretty exciting picture.

Yes, it will be plus or minus, Patrick. And the answer is that, in a lot of cases, it's going to be - there's a lot of discounting that occurs when the list is high and we're not competitive out of the gate. There's a lot of discounting and oftentimes inefficient discounting that happens. So while this is going on, there's pretty tight controls around discounting disciplines, because we're bringing a better price to the customer right out of the gate. And most of our modeling suggests that, that will offset one another.

Oh, I think we lost you Patrick, but thank you.
