Erik Fyrwald
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you.

So this is Erik. First of all, I wasn't here a year ago, obviously, but I did arrive on February 6th, looked at our entire situation, talked to Glenn and his team, talked to the board, and made the decision to go ahead and cut the dividend now. I think it's a wise move in terms of our overall balance sheet efforts to get our balance sheet in great shape, and it doesn't impact the divestment timing or strategy. We continue to work on our portfolio optimization, but obviously we're focused even more on working on strengthening the businesses, increasing our earnings and cash flow.

Next question.

Thank you, Gunther, and glad to be back in the public market. My priorities for 2024, I should say, our priorities for 2024 are to continue the portfolio optimization work and have that be part of improving our balance sheet. But again, more importantly, we're going to strengthen each business. We're going to make sure that each business is clear on how they can strengthen their customer focus to profitably grow market share, strengthen the R&D and innovation in each business so that we better delight customers with our innovation so that we bring innovation that they value, that we can grow our market share with them. And then thirdly, we're going to keep driving productivity and strengthen productivity in each business unit and then also corporately. We want a very effective and efficient back office.

What will reduce the amount of engagement we've had with consultants, advisors, and others that have caused us to be too internally focused. We're going to get back to focus on winning with the businesses by better serving our customers than our competition. In terms of how I'm thinking about the midterm targets, it's too early for me to comment, but I'll look at them with the team here and we'll do it by business and then we'll roll it up for the company and we'll get back to you in the not too distant future on that, but on the last one, Glenn?

Thanks David.

I'll take the first one, and, Glenn, you can have the second piece, because I'm not that familiar with the details at this point, but I'm getting into it. But in terms of any portfolio optimization, we're not going to comment on rumors. All I can tell you is we continue to work on portfolio optimization, and we will not sell a business at a price that doesn't make sense, but we're looking at what does make sense for IFF and for our employees and any business that we might consider divesting. So with that, Glenn?

Thank you, Lisa. And I'll take the first part of that question. I've looked very hard at the data over the last five years, and clearly we have underperformed, as all of you know. We have pockets of strength, scent as an example I mentioned in the opening comments, but we have some businesses that are challenged, like food ingredients. What I can tell you is we're going to have each business be very clear on what is their strategy to win. How are they going to delight their customer set and make sure that we profitably grow our market share? How are we going to make sure that we have our innovation targeted and needs the customer's value? And how are we going to make sure we're driving productivity? So each of the business end-to-end, how do we drive the businesses?

And as you know, we've got strong businesses in great markets, like our flavors and our fragrances or scent business, terrific businesses that should be able to fully compete with margins and growth rates with Givaudan and others. We've got a strong business unit in Health & Biosciences in great markets, and we should be able to fully compete with margins and growth against Novonesis. In our challenged businesses, we've got very good markets in food ingredients and protein solutions, and we should be able to be fully competitive with Kerry and other food ingredient players. And we've got a very good business and very good markets with pharmaceutical ingredients, and we need to be fully competitive with our ingredients set there, Ashland and others. So, we have not performed as a company, across the company in the last five years like we should. In the next five years, we'll get back on track.

Thanks, John. And let me start with the first one. The makeup of our functional ingredients business is better than what it was when I had responsibility for that as part of agriculture and nutrition back at DuPont a number of years ago. So I believe our potential is significantly higher than it was then. I think that it's in a very good market. I think we've underperformed. And I think we've underperformed because we've been too internally focused. We've had lots of consultants. We've had lots of advisors talking about helping us to figure out what to do around synergies. And what I can tell you is, I've been in these businesses for many, many years, these types of businesses. The goal was not synergy. Synergy is a tool. The goal is to have a very clear strategy for our functional ingredients business. How are we going to profitably grow our market share with customers by delighting the customers with our solutions approach, with our innovation, and then do that in a productive way with our assets and our functions, very productive.

We have the potential to significantly improve the performance of this business. I've spent time with our business leaders. I think they're headed in the right direction and we're going to further accelerate the progress and make sure that we profitably grow our food ingredients business and fully compete with our competitors, the leading competitors in food ingredients, because we have so much value to bring customers. If we do it right, when we do it right, we'll have a very good business. And then, in terms of the organization structure, no decisions today, but what I will tell you is I'm a big fan of business units that have end-to-end accountability and responsibility to drive all the levers of the P&L, making sure that everything we do is to delight customers, profitably grow our market share, but do it in a way that's efficient and effective so each business unit can win.

And I find when business units are winning, all of a sudden synergies become clearer and become more powerful and easier to access. So we're going to ensure that our businesses are on the right track and that our synergies are additive to further strengthen each of our businesses.

Now, on your second question, Laurence, my initial impressions of IFF's capabilities are we've got really great people. We've got really great capabilities in each of our businesses, and we have just under-performed. But there are pockets of examples where we are performing tremendously well that give me so much confidence that we can make this happen across the company. I spent time with the leadership of arguably the largest consumer products company in the world, where we have a very strong relationship, very much innovation-driven, their innovation people to make sure that the best consumer products are being developed. And we were meeting both with our scent teams and their fragrance team, and with our Health & Biosciences team and their consumer products teams.

And it was the best relationship, the best dynamic that I've ever experienced in my 42 years of customer interactions. And then I had another interaction with the top management of a leading beauty care company in Europe. And same thing, our people were working hand in glove with their people to create great, great consumer products that consumers love. So we can do it. We do it. We just need to do it more across the company. And I'm really excited by helping our teams, stop being so internally focused, get more focused by business unit on winning with customers, and then collaborate where it makes sense to enhance across our portfolio, to bring even more to customers so that the customers win more and we win more.

Now in terms of productivity, as Glenn mentioned, their pocket's there where we're doing very well, but there's more we can do on productivity. Ralf Finzel and his production team are really driving tremendous productivity in our operations, and it's still early phase, but they're ramping that up very nicely. We've already had efforts in back office productivity for our corporate functions. That's going okay, but we're going to accelerate that. You'll see more shared service centers and more activity with IT systems to make sure that we're effective serving the businesses and very efficient. So I love what I see. There's so much excellence here, but we've got to get it across the company, and we will.

Thank you, Adam. I'll start, and then Glenn can add on. First of all, I fully am aligned with and agree with a target of three times net leverage debt as a target to get to. I think the year end '24, I'd like to see us get there by the end of '24, but we're not going to do something stupid that destroys significant value to get there in '24, but I can tell you we're going to make very good progress at least towards that goal in '24. In terms of high return growth investments alluded to, I'll just reinforce that flavors and fragrances, we call it scent, and health & biosciences are strong business units in great markets. I've been in many chemistry and biological markets. These are great markets, and we're going to invest in them to win.

Well, thanks, Mike. And I'll start with the functional ingredients question. First of all, I like the functional ingredients business. It is a very good business with lots of opportunity to bring value to customers. And by having multiple elements of the solution set, you can bring value in terms of helping customers achieve their goals and what food products they want to have to delight customers, delight consumers. So I think what we really have to do here is, and the team is working on this, is make sure that we're clear on what is our strategy, how are we going to create value in this business, how are we going to make sure that we're focused on the right consumers, excuse me, the right customers in the right way, profitably growing our market share, and how do we make sure that our assets are very competitive, that our costs are very competitive, that we're driving productivity so that we can be competitive with our product portfolio both in terms of the value we bring and the costs to deliver that value.

And then we're spending money on innovation. We've got lots of great innovation. Make sure that innovation is tied to real customer needs that they're willing to pay for that can be part of the solution set. And I think that we've taken our eye off the ball, as I said before, too much internal focus, listening to too many consultants going all different directions. We get clear what we're trying to do, what the goals are, and execute well against those goals. This business will significantly improve in 2024 and beyond.

Okay. Thank you. I'll start by saying that I believe that the historical IFF plus the DuPont nutrition and biosciences business are stronger together than they were separately. The potential, the opportunity is greater than it was separately. So I believe in that combination very strongly. Now, as I said before, we haven't executed it well, and I've seen this happen before. When I got to Syngenta almost eight years ago, the seeds in the crop protection businesses had been mushed together, and the focus was on synergies versus having a great crop protection business and a great seeds business. We made clear that we were going to have those two businesses as business units, end-to-end business units. And as soon as we did that, we found out that we had been losing share, losing margin versus the competition.

We started regaining that, and by the way, when the business units were clearing what they were trying to do, the synergies grew a lot because there were synergies. I see the same thing here at IFF as we're really good at flavors, at fragrances or scents, at health & biosciences, at food ingredients, those businesses, when they're performing well the synergies will increase, not decrease. The ability to help each other, the different businesses to help each other, to help customers more together will increase, but we've got to get the businesses performing extremely well by themselves and not have synergy of the goal, have synergy of tools. When we do that, I can assure you that the combination will be very strong.

The only thing I would add is that even in the 75%, there is significant improvement opportunity, and we've got businesses that are looking at that, and we're going to work with those businesses to support them, both for the businesses to win more and for the corporate cost overheads to be lower and more effective at supporting the businesses. So there is great opportunity, of course, in food ingredients to turn it around, but even the rest of the company to significantly improve performance, and we're going to do it.

I'll start, and I think our R&D spend is significant today. I think if you look at what we spend, it's very competitive versus the industry leaders, other industry leaders, but I do think we can focus it better, connect it better to the business units and to customers, and ensure that the R&D efforts are fully aligned with the highest value needs that our customers have. So I think we can get more out of the R&D spend that we have, and where there are areas that we need to spend more R&D, particularly in health &biosciences and flavors and fragrances, we will spend more on R&D.

On capital expenditures, I feel similarly that the level of capital expenditures are reasonable, but we have to look at where we're spending it and make sure that it's optimized and we're spending the capital in places that have significant returns, have very good returns, and strengthen the businesses where we need to win.

Great. Well, thank you for joining the call this morning. Again, I just want to finish by saying that I'm thrilled to be at IFF. We've got a tremendous team at IFF. We've got great capabilities. We haven't performed to our potential in the past, but I can tell you we're all completely committed to making sure that we unleash the full potential of our businesses and drive the right kind of synergies that enhance each of the businesses, and make customers very pleased, delighted with what we bring in our innovation. And by doing that, possibly grow our market share and through their productivity efforts, make sure we do that with leading margins. Thank you.