Evan Spiegel
Snap Inc. (SNAP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Ross. We're really excited about the progress we're seeing, especially in our lower funnel business and with small- and medium-sized advertisers. Purchase-related conversions grew 90% year-over-year in Q4. And we saw small- and medium-sized -- a number of small and medium-sized advertisers grow 20% year-over-year. We really think this reflects more resilient revenue as well because as we've navigated some of these external challenges over the last couple of years, we found that those lower funnel dollars are just more resilient. I think looking ahead at Q1, the top end of the guidance range reflects a 10-point acceleration. So we are making progress here. Obviously, we wish we were moving faster but we're working as hard as we can and pleased by what we're seeing in the Direct Response business.

Yes. When we set out to build Spotlight, we actually built it on a totally separate stack, so meaning the ranking was separate stack, the inventory was separate from our Stories inventory and the user experience itself as well was different. We've really seen a lot of opportunity in bringing some of those improvements to Stories. Our Stories inventory is more constrained than Spotlight, for example. It doesn't leverage some of the ranking improvements and model improvements we've made on Spotlight. And so we think unifying the Stories and Spotlight experience will bring a lot of the benefits we've seen on the Spotlight side in terms of personalization and the user experience to Stories as well. So we're definitely excited about that. A lot of the sort of under-the-hood work is well underway and we have some tests rolling out throughout the year that should get us closer to that unified experience.

In terms of brand safety, we just completed a third-party audit on brand safety. I think we're close to 99% of brand-safe content on Spotlight and close to 100% actually in terms of creator content, Snap Stars and the like. So I think one of the really unique things about Snapchat is that advertisers can get a brand-safe experience without paying a premium for it, like they have to do on other platforms, to avoid harmful content. So I do think we'll be able to continue to extend those benefits to advertisers in this unified experience. And our very high levels of brand safety, I think, are a real differentiator for us.

Yes. Thanks for the question. As we've designed Snapchat and really architected the product, we thought about building it around some of the core ways that people use their smartphones. So things like talking with friends, taking pictures, watching content, these are the things that people do most often and really engage with the most on their phones. And I think, as we look at Snapchat, one of our biggest opportunities is actually the way the relationship between these different services that's been a strategic advantage for us. If you think about growth of our Content business, what we've seen is we can grow the top of funnel as friends share content with each other, that brings more people into our content experience.

Or when we launched Spotlight, we leveraged the fact that so many people use our camera every day to create videos that we could generate a lot of inventory for our Spotlight product very, very quickly. So I think this relationship between our camera, our messaging service and of course, our content platform is really a key strategic advantage for us. And as we continue to focus on helping close friends and family stay in touch and communicate visually with one another, I think there's a lot more opportunity for us ahead.

Yes. Thanks for the question. As we look at North America, in the fourth quarter, that decline was mostly an artifact of rounding. We're not expecting a further decline in North America in Q1. I do think overall, though, there is an opportunity for us to invest more in growth in North America and Europe. Over the past 5 to 7 years, we've really focused on our Android product and growth in emerging markets. That's really about attracting a large volume of new users. I think in places like North America and Europe, we can do a better job on iOS and really on resurrecting people who tried Snapchat or who aren't coming into the service as often or when they come back to receive a message from their friends, helping them onboard to our other different features.

So that's going to be an increasing focus for us and we'll be investing more there over the coming years. We're kind of currently just really sizing that opportunity and really understanding it. We obviously reach a very large number, I think, more than 75%, of 13 to 34-year olds in over 20 countries. But I do think there is some headroom to continue to grow our business in Europe and North America in terms of users.

Yes. Thanks, Rich. I think, as a platform that serves over 800 million people around the world, we're certainly one of the largest Internet services. We aren't as large as some players but I think there's enormous opportunity for us to continue to grow our business. I think, as you look at sort of the overall revenue resilience, one of the things we've really focused on in the last couple of years is pivoting to lower funnel objectives for advertising partners and especially small- and medium-sized businesses.

We historically had more of a brand-focused advertising business. And it's taken quite a lot of work and investment. We're certainly trying to play catch-up here on the Direct Response side but we are seeing evidence that, that's working. So I think as we look at our 7-0 product, for example, in the way that that's really driving purchases for advertisers, that tells me that as we apply those learnings to other categories like apps, for example, that we'll be able to see more momentum and progress there.

So it certainly has been a difficult transition from a more brand-oriented business to Direct Response but we are making a lot of progress. And when I look at the work we've done just on the modeling side and the scale of our models now and our ability to utilize pressure more real-time signals in a privacy-safe way across our platform, I do think we're making significant progress. And we're optimistic that we can continue to accelerate.

Yes. Thanks for the question. It's always painful and difficult to make these sorts of changes with our team. We're really motivated by trying to move faster. Last year, towards the end of the year, we made a rather large change to our product team and restructured the team to just drive a lot more accountability and focus. And in doing so, we removed a number of layers of management. We saw the impact that that had just in terms of the clarity and focus and the ability for people to collaborate and work together. And I think as well, we're seeing a lot of benefits from getting folks together in the office and the sort of problem solving and creativity that comes out of that. So I think putting a real focus on reducing hierarchy and really an emphasis on bringing people together to solve problems has made a big difference for the business recently. And I think these changes will allow us to do more of that.

Yes. Thanks for the question. We certainly do think that, that signal can be another input into our models to help deliver more relevant and engaging advertising. We made a lot of progress on the cost-to-serve side in terms of My AI and we've been testing routing queries to different models and whatnot to help reduce cost, depending on the complexity of the query. I'd say, overall, our generative AI efforts have been much more focused on image and video models and helping people edit their Snaps or generate Snaps in new and entertaining ways and really using that as an on-ramp to Snapchat+. We're really excited that we reached more than 7 million Snapchat+ subscribers in Q4. And I do think that Snapchat+ will be a way to monetize some of these more intensive image and video offerings that we're rolling out.

Yes. I'd say, overall, anytime you're asking people to change their behavior, that can be difficult. That's why we're really trying to be thoughtful about it. I think one of the most frustrating things from a user experience perspective is that the UI and navigation for Spotlight is different than the UI and navigation for Stories. So the initial steps here are really trying to unify the UI and then unify the navigation and make sure there aren't any negative secondary impacts to various parts of our business. But I think overall, as we look at the way that Spotlight has been able to drive some really significant engagement growth and really the opportunity to broaden out our inventory pool and do our ranking models in a holistic way, I think those benefits will outweigh whatever disruptions we have to navigate as we unify that user interface in navigation.
