Frank Svoboda
Globe Life Inc. (GL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Jimmy, reflect the full difference between what we had expected in our valuation assumptions versus what we actually incurred from claims and lapse experience in the quarter that it occurs.

Yes. Our plan is to unlock assumptions in the third quarter. So, for instance, we’ve seen two quarters of good experience, mortality experience in the third quarter and the fourth quarter. We’d like to see the development of that fourth quarter experience as it moves into 2024. And then we’d also like to see that continue in the first half of 2024 before we make a decision to inform our updates to our underlying assumptions.

Yes. Just from a claims experience on med sup, we have seen some increased trend over the course of 2023 in both our individual and our group business, but more so on the group side. And then that subsided a little bit later in the year. We’ve reflected those trends into our rate projections or rate increases for 2024. So we contain them out of that regularly. And actually, whatever trend we’re seeing will build into rates for the following year.

Yes. Sensitivity on the rates of this particular asset class?

Okay. Yes, we’re taking – over the course of 2024, we kind of see basically the benchmark, we kind of rely mostly on 30 year. It’s kind of our benchmark. And so I see that being relatively stable, but probably drifting downward over the course of the year. But right now, as you know, the spreads are extremely tight. Currently, we do expect that to expand a little bit over the course of the year as well. And so built into our guidance, we’re expecting for our fixed maturities to be around 5.5%. It’s a little bit lower than we had in 2023. It’s largely due to the declines in the spread.

If you look at 2023, our benchmark was just a little bit over on average over the course of the year, a little over 4%, but we were getting nearly 200 basis point spreads on those investments. It’s really tightened up here during the fourth quarter. So, we don’t expect that higher spread continuing at this point in time, at least into 2024.

One thing I would add to that is that I think we’re generally pleased, clearly, with what we were seeing here in the third and fourth quarters. And as Tom said, it was a little bit higher, or it was definitely higher early in the year. But we’re seeing that improvement across all the distributions. And then as we look into it, we really are seeing it across all the issue years. So it’s a little bit, kind of a broad based improvement overall in the mortality, which we think that is favorable. And as Tom said, we clearly want to see how that kind of plays itself out here over the next couple of quarters and see if it continues in that fashion or if it was just a fluctuation that we’ve had here at the end of the year. So we’ll see how that turns out.

I would say, Tom, that you think about, as you say, it’s kind of at the midpoint of that, right? We had in the fourth quarter of 2022, which is kind of where you would have said at that point in time, we had about a 38% margin in the overall for the life in the fourth quarter. That was kind of the expectations if you will, of where that – where that would have been – what we would have expected from a margin on a long-term basis.

And so we had a little higher expenses, and remember we had a little higher expense, we talked about having higher amortization on our overall life business as we continue to capitalize and amortize renewal commissions. And so that was a little bit of a drag in 2023, and that was really offset with some of the favorable remeasurement gains that we saw in 2023.

So we saw a little bit – less than a 0.5% increase, if you will, in that overall margin between 2023 – and between 2022 and 2023. So I think what we’re anticipating from remeasurement gains and just improvement in that overall mortality is what you’re seeing in that expectation for that margin, that margin improvement in 2024. So that’s what’s really driving that. So we’re still going to end up having a little bit higher amortization. We’ve talked about – we’ll probably have between 0% to 0.5% increase in our amortization expense over the course of the next few years as we continue to capitalize and amortize those renewal commissions, especially at American Income. And then that the higher margins really representing that better mortality, which is really going to manifest itself in the combination of both remeasurement gains over the course of the year.

Yes, Tom. I mean that is something that we’re really taking a look at as to making sure that we understand what are those differences that we’re seeing between our GAAP earnings and then the statutory earnings that are clearly driving that cash flow conversion. What portion of that is related to the growth that we’re seeing in our agency businesses, right? Because that’s a good portion of where we see those drags as we continue – if they’re having 10% to 15% growth years, that’s a really good thing for the long term, but we need to make sure that we can articulate what that means from a cash flow conversion perspective as well as – as we continue to make investments in our technology stack and in improving, making those investments that’s setting us up for the future, what that really entails.

But we are also then taking a look at are there ways that we can manage that a little bit better in order to – we’d like to get to where we’re probably closer to a 60% conversion rate. And not sure if we can – what that would really take to get there, but it’s something that we want to take a look at and make sure – we have had – in addition, we had the drag of the – of the defaults and the capital losses that we had in 2023. So that’s a drag here, a little bit on a cash flow conversion in 2024. And so we’ll see where – if we get past some of those headwinds, what that really looks like on a go-forward basis.