Francois Locoh-Donou
F5, Inc. (FFIV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Amit. So in, in total, so we talked about it roughly $200 million in SaaS and managed services. In that $200 million there is about $65 million of revenue stream, that essentially are going to go away. Now, but that’s more than half of that is revenue streams coming from a legacy managed services platform Silverline, that we are retiring. But we intend to migrate the customers over to Distributed Cloud. So we would expect you know a portion, if not a significant portion of that, you know of that revenue stream to go on to Distributed Cloud over time.

The other a little less than half of that $65 million are offerings that we are retiring completely that, you know, when we looked at our portfolio and looked at the offerings we wanted to rationalize, that we felt were underperforming. We decided to retire these offerings completely to, you know, focus on the products that are going forward and successful rationalize our cost and improve our efficiency.

Amit there, I wouldn’t say there is a particular geography where we are -- where, that’s really different than others. I would say, North America has been probably more solid and stable than our Asia and European markets. If we look at verticals in terms of where we’re seeing stabilization, I think the enterprise market, we’re seeing more stabilization. The service provider market has been soft. That’s for a number of factors service providers continue to sweat assets, and, and be really ruthless in their prioritization, the 4G to 5G transition is a little slower than anticipated.

So service providers in general have been soft than we’re kind of expecting that to continue. What we were encouraged by, especially, in the second-half of the year, but specifically in Q4 is in the enterprise space specifically, we saw some customers that had been sweating their assets, and got to kind of at the end of that cycle and started demanding hardware again or ordering hardware again. So we did see a rebound in hardware orders in the fourth fiscal quarter.

Coming from A, we think some customers having sweated their assets, but also, you know, it took a long time for us to ship equipment to a number of our customers in 2023. And in Q4 we saw some of these customers that finally had received their hardware and had been able to deploy that to start ordering again. So we were encouraged by those trends.

Yes. So, Alex, we’re -- so today we’re talking -- so I don’t want to talk about what’s beyond FY ‘25, I’m going to talk about FY ‘24 and ‘25. Beyond FY ‘25, I think our view of our end markets haven’t really changed. And so you know in the future that opportunity to return to 20%-plus growth in software, is there based on the end markets that we are targeting.

But let’s talk about FY ‘24 and FY ‘25. So FY ‘24 we’ve talked about growth in software being you know flat to modest. And that, if you take the three components of software that we’ve, we just talked about, we expect, you know, frankly, the perpetual base of the business to be roughly flattish. We have a similar view on the SaaS and managed services part of the business based on the transitions we’re going through. And potentially, you know in the term subscription part of the business is where potentially we would see some modest growth.

Going into 2025 from a revenue perspective, we don’t necessarily expect growth from perpetual or the SaaS and managed services business because of the transitions that we’re going through. But we have strong visibility into our -- the renewals and expansion in our term subscription business. The expansions which are very strong from what we’re seeing and we expect that to continue and be amplified in 2025. So in 2025, we would expect you know software growth to return to double-digit, really powered by our term subscription business.

Samik. Thank you. These -- so over a long period of time I think we, you know, we think that the hardware business would be more of a you know low-single, low-single-digit decline or overtime. However, that is a statement you know that is based on a normal, first a normalization of the hardware business, and we’re not there today. And that’s been as you know, the demand was much softer in 2023. And so we actually expect our hardware business to rebound in 2024, and we saw some signs of that already in this fourth quarter.

And you know the -- I’m giving you more of a long-term trend kind of beyond 2025. But you know I think at least for 2024, we expect to rebound in the hardware business. In terms of where AI will play in our business, so the way to think about it Samik is, we -- the portfolio that we’re putting together, which is hardware, software and SaaS, we expect, you know, that will enable our customers to secure and deliver their API and their applications in any environment.

AI workloads are going to be modern applications, some of which may run on-prem but we think a, a lot of them will run in software environment, and so it’s likely that supporting AI workloads will accrue more to our software business over time. And in addition to that, we think we have a very unique position in that with our distributed cloud capabilities, we are able to run inferences really in any cloud environment and beyond. So we can run inferences in any public cloud, we can run it at the edge, we can run it in our own cloud.

And increasingly, we’re hearing from customers that they will want to run these inferences on manufacturing floors or on the retail branches for retail customers or and vehicles for some far as use cases. And we have the ability to run and secure and deliver these inferences in any environment. You know, whether it’s in the cloud or in any one of these far edge environments and that makes F5 very unique in its position for running AI inferences in the future. All of that of course will accrue to our software business.

Yes. Thank you, Samik. I, I don’t think it, it was related to a budget flush for -- you know because, you know, the comments we made in resumption were really things we observe in the, the quarter that ended in, in September for us. When we look at next year, no, we do not have visibility into exactly what budgets our customers will have in FY ‘24. We do have a strong pipeline, entering the fiscal year on hardware. And you know that would -- it will come down to what are the close rates on that. In Q4 the close rates that we saw on our pipeline entering the quarter were better than in the prior three quarters of the year. That’s also part of why we talked about stabilization. And green shoots in Q4 is because what we saw in the close rate.

So we’re going into the fiscal year with a stronger hardware pipeline. Recent data points on close rates that are positive. But of course, we are cautious, because there’s still a lot of uncertainty out there. Around the macro as you noted. We continue to see customers you know in certain occasions, delaying, delaying deals or having continued budget scrutiny and more approvals. We are seeing that phenomenon continue. And so overall, we’re still cautious going into the year.

Thank you, Meta. The -- so let me start with the first question, and my comments on pipeline. There are more related to what we’re seeing in the -- on the hardware side of things, where we had a number of customers that A, number one have been sweating their assets, and they’re getting sometimes the utilization levels, where we, we know that at some point in ‘24 they will have to do something. Or number two, customers who have placed orders in FY ‘22 have not been able to receive equipment for these orders, who now have and have started to deploy that capacity and are starting to be ready to order again. So that is accruing to a stronger hardware pipeline.

In terms of big you know, kind of multi-cloud software, what we’ve called this transformational software project, we are not yet seeing a you know substantial resumption of these kinds of projects. But then that’s what I was saying earlier is customers are still very cautious on undertaking, you know, big projects like that. And we’re not seeing a different pattern going into the year on those aspects.

As it relates to AI and whether it will require productization, we have essentially and so on, on the aspect of being able to run inferences in any environment, we have these capabilities in Distributed Cloud. I think we need to ensure that we harden these capabilities and there is a strong go-to-market effort to be made around that to make customers aware of that in the future as they start deploying AI workloads. As it relates to being able to secure and deliver AI workloads, those capabilities exist today and we are ready to go with that already.

Thank you, Frank. And to your second question, Michael on SaaS and managed services. So, like, if we talk about, you know, FY ‘22 to FY ‘23, you saw that the ARR there was flat to slightly down. There are two reasons for that. One is, yes, the transitions we talked about started in ‘23 and there was about call it roughly, you know, $12 million of ARR that we transitioned out of the business in 2023. The other reason is at the high-end of the bot business, we saw quite a bit of softness, especially in the second-half of the year, as customers had significant budget scrutiny and you know we’re reluctant unless they were under immediate attack, to really implement our more sophisticated solutions.

We think over time that will change, but specifically this year with the macro pressures and budget scrutiny, we saw a lot of softness there, both in, you know, new bookings and in some churn in some cases. So that is the FY ‘22 to FY ‘23. So from going into 2024, well, you asked about, you know, is this transition is a multi-year transition. Yes, we expect that the $65 million of, of revenue stream that we are transitioning will work themselves out over the next couple of years, so over FY ‘24 and FY ‘25 they are a headwind to total growth.

However, we are quite excited by what’s happening with F5 out of the SaaS portion of our offerings, specifically SaaS on F5 Distributed Cloud. We have launched a WAF offerings, the security offering, you know, about 18 months ago. We are seeing extraordinary traction on that. As I said earlier, we’ve won over 500 customers in that period, all of whom are enterprise customers. And we are seeing very rapid traction on that. We’re also seeing rapid traction on the multi-cloud networking market, where we bring both networking and security capabilities and we’re quite differentiated to anybody in the market.

So that has grown fast and we expect that portion of the business to continue to grow fast, and overtime become a, a majority of this SaaS and managed services portfolio.

[Indiscernible] Michael.

Thanks, Tim. Maybe let me start with the second part. No, it’s not about synergies. So there are two aspects of that, Tim in terms of the transitions we’re talking about the $65 million of transition. One is a legacy platform that we have, you know that -- on which we have built managed services offering. We have now built a with the F5 Distributed Cloud in much more modern platform with an architecture that’s differentiated, and that’s gaining rapid traction and we want to transition our customers through this modern platform. And that was always the plan to do that. However, you know, we have to first of all, build a platform and build all the security capabilities on the platform, to be able to start this transition. So we’re very excited that we were able to do all this work on the Volterra platform over the last couple of years, and we’re able to start this transition in 2023.

The second part of the revenue stream that is being retired is not about synergies, it’s new offerings that we had launched recently, that we hope to do well in the market. But given the macro environment and what we’ve seen as the early traction on these offerings, we’ve made some decisions as you know, in April to rationalize our portfolio and focus on the most attractive investment, and we decided to not go forward with these products. So that’s the second part of your question.

On the -- I should say that the last thing I’d say about that is, in terms of the synergies between elements of the portfolio, no -- we are actually very encouraged on what we’re seeing. We’re seeing actually a number of customers, who already have BIG-IP adopt Distributed Cloud. You know so for a set of applications they have BIG-IP on-prem or in the cloud, so hardware or software, and then they want to have software-as-a-service for in -- other applications in their state. And they really want to have the consistency of you know security engine, security policies across all these environments and we’re able to do that with BIG-IP, as well as our SaaS and managed services.

NGINX also had a very strong quarter in Q4, and that was driven in-part by the security capabilities that we ported from BIG-IP onto NGNIX and that same security stack is now in use in Distributed Cloud. So the synergies, especially in terms of security across our portfolio are, are playing out, and we expect that they will accelerate actually over the next couple of years, as we, we do more and more conversion between the SaaS and deployable products.

Now, for the first part of your question, in terms of the ADC competitors, look Tim, here it’s -- we have over the last four years, you know, we made a decision to continue to invest in the future of the ADC franchise, and specifically, building the next generation hardware form factors for our ADC franchise and the next generation software form factors that together bring to on-prem deployments, the benefit of the cloud, such as, you know, multi-tenancy rapid upgrades, seamless upgrades, and make it way easier for customers to operationalize ADCs, and have a better total cost of ownership.

Those investments are paying out in the market in terms of us gaining share and being able to displace our traditional competitors in, you know, even in situations where they are incumbent, and take share from them. And we think that, you know, that’s not a one-off. Our expectation is, that will continue, and, you know, we’re pretty excited because, this year we’re introducing the next generation software platform on BIG-IP that we think is also even more differentiated than what we’ve had in the market. So I expect that will continue and it’s you know, hopefully a pay-off for the investment we’ve made over the last four years.

Thank you. The -- look our goal is to make it ridiculously easy for our customers to secure and deliver their applications. And Distributed Cloud is getting a lot of traction because it does that for, for our customers. So when you look at the priorities next year, of course, it’s scaling the platform, so it’s available in, you know, more markets in more environments and continue to add services to the platform. We have the two -- I would say first two sets of services WAF and multi cloud networking.

We have a backlog of other services that we want to add to the platform that our customers will want to add. We’ve recently added CDN capabilities on the platform, you know, after the [Acqui hire] (ph) of Lilac a few months back and we’re starting to get customers adopting our CDN because it’s convenient for them to like catch back to load balancing and, and security in some cases.

So the first priorities are, you know, scaling the platform and adding services. As far as go-to-market, frankly, the priority is going into customers that are already F5 customers, that have our hardware or software, but want a SaaS solution to make it easier to front -- to use F5 to front a bunch of applications for which they don’t want to manage the lifecycle of deployable products.

And if you look at the 500 customers or so that are on Distributed Cloud today, over two-thirds of them are actually existing BIG-IP customers. So about a third of them are net new customers that had never bought anything from F5 and two-thirds of them are existing BIG-IP customers. And we think actually with both net new and with existing customers there is a lot of growth and that’s where the focus is. And the focus is going to continue to be with large enterprise customers where F5 has a strong presence.

And to the second part of your question, in terms of Silverline no, it’s not going to be all in one quarter. You know, it’s going to bleed off over the next couple of years, kind of, every quarter. And it’s going to be time with, you know, when customers are at a point where they have to renew or migrate their subscription that there will be a decision point. And so you’re going to see it I think over the next six to eight quarters.