Francisco Leon
California Resources Corporation (CRC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Scott. So we are not receiving permits for new wells. What we’re doing, though, is getting permits for capital workovers. So if you look at the way that CRC has performed now for multiple years, very low decline – corporate decline to the business, adding, first, OpEx workovers and then capital workovers brings our all-in decline is somewhere in the high single digits. Then to get to a stay-flat scenario, we drill new wells. So right now, we’re sitting with a permits on hand for a full year program, and no incremental permits have come through, but we feel that we can deliver a very similar program that we did last year in ‘23 that you saw in the results today. What we said is with 1 rig program, we can get to a 5% to 7% base decline. After investments, we did that in ‘23 and we also said it’s repeatable, so we’ll do that in 2024 if Kern County EIR is not reinstated. And we expect that to continue into 2025. So we have enough permits on hand. We have visibility into workovers to be able to have this repeatable model on the scenario where Kern County doesn’t get resolved.

Yes, correct. We would have – we have multiple years of permits in hand that we can.

Yes. So we continue with the Class VI permit, they are excited about getting to the public comment period right now. We’ve – it’s public information. It’s in the tracker in terms of how the EPA is thinking about it. I wouldn’t say there is any delays. We have agreed to do a 90-day public comment period, that’s still very much within the timeline. And we’ve been checking milestones as we go on a way that’s, again, consistent with what we see on the EPA tracker. We’ve been preparing. We’re getting ready for multiple years to get to this point, but maybe I’ll turn it over to Chris to give a little bit of a perspective on what we’re hearing on the ground. The hearing is today with the EPA. So there’s a lot of excitement, a lot of preparation that goes into a day like today. So maybe, Chris?

Hi, Kalei, so yes, we’re very excited about being able to sell this more property, Fort Apache, 0.9 acres for $10 million. So it’s an $11 million per acre valuation. And so that was – we needed to be able to provide that proof point to the market. The larger property, right, so the 90 acres in Huntington Beach, the objective is to optimize the valuation and ultimately, to get value recognition in their stock price, meaning, we would sell today if the right offer comes along, right? There’s nothing holding us back from capitalizing on that valuation.

Now, as we look at not only the continuous development and abandonment of the field, there’s a lot of steps that we have to take to get to that optimal valuation. If we sold today, then abandonment remediation and reentitlement gets priced into the offer. That’s our view. If that’s not the case, again, we would sell it as soon as we can. But assuming that there’s a number of steps that we’re going to be – a CRC prepared to handle, which is abandonment of the well and the reentitlement, then it’s going to be a multiyear process, again, to find the best value for the land.

So the abandonment, we control fully. The pace of abandonment should not be an indicator of how long this will take. We can accelerate the abandonment. But ultimately, what’s the – what we need to sort through is the ability to reentitle the property so that we can have real estate development, which is going to be the highest and best use of the property. And we’re going to work with the City of Huntington Beach. We need to work with State Lands Commission. We need to talk to the Coastal Commission. These are processes that take some time ultimately to clear out. The more we advance the ball, the higher the offer is going to be.

So yes, we could sell it today, again, to maximize the value, which is the objective here. It’s better to keep producing the field. We have the benefit of about 3,000 barrels gross on the property that we use the cash to pay for the abandonment, which are self-funding, self-contained abandonment program. And we’ll continue doing that until we can get line of sight to a process where we have a land that we can sell without taking a big deduct. So again, I wouldn’t read anything into the abandonment piece because we can completely control that. It’s really more about the negotiations and discussions with city officials and the reentitlement of the property. So I would take – I think this takes a few years to unlock. So 4 to 5 years is what I would say is to get the full process completed. We don’t know for sure, but we started and we’re pushing forward to try to maximize the value and bring that value forward as quickly as we can.

Yes. So Aera and CRC are – have both been very aggressively pursuing abandonment and plugging on abandonment of wells. I think the spend that they have historically is very consistent with ours. I can’t really comment. We haven’t put out the rest of the information on Aera. We need to get a little bit further along in terms of closing the deal. But the Aera properties tend to be shallower. So they may have more wellbores, but they also have much more limited debt to – in terms of the differences between the asset basis. But I will provide more color as we go forward. We haven’t released any of that information in more detail on the assets. But we’ll do so as we get the proxy filed as we get closer to the completion of the HSR process.

So – so let’s say – but again, the point should be as we’ve been abandoning wells on both sides, we have good programs, ARO programs in place. We’re also looking to deploy technology to reuse wellbores for clean energy, for water rights for CCS. So we look at a wellbore in California as having multiple lives and multiple uses. So excited to have – to look at the Aera assets through that lens.

Yes, we’re actively looking at that for our portfolio, Kalei, and Aera would be applied the same way. There’s opportunities, really good, exciting opportunities of bringing – produce water to surface that can be treated and used for agriculture. And you don’t want to be drilling separate wellbores for that. If we can reuse an existing wellbore, that’s going to be a much better option. We’re also looking at things like enhanced geothermal technology that uses the heat in the rocks on – from steam footing for multiple decades to try to bring clean energy to surface.

So we’re looking at a lot of places to deploy some money to bring that technology to California. And I think there’s, like I said, multiple uses, multiple lives to these wellbores, and we’re excited to bring that to fruition.

Thanks, Kalei.

Yes, Nate, I’ll – we’ll tag-team this with Chris. But absolutely, I think the – we have a very unique market in California, where you have a state government that’s pushing and really in favor of an energy transition. But we also have a state that has relied on oil and gas revenues to support the communities and to pave the roads to pay for libraries and fire stations. A lot of that cash flow and the tax revenue that’s collected by the counties, it really supports a quality of life for the community. So a transition away from oil and gas and into some new technology needs to satisfy, not only the environmental requirements of the state, but also supplement the income that the counties and everybody receives. So we’re excited to be able to do both extremely well. We see – our CRC platform has not been mutually exclusive, but one that can continue to deliver oil and gas, low carbon oil and gas better than anything that comes from imports, but also advancing the technology and the investments on the clean side. So we see us as being the leader, cementing our leadership on both and really trying to drive those solutions that end up in the right place for the state.

But maybe, I’ll ask Chris to see if he has any more comments.

Yes. So this is – we’re looking at a 905 – Senate Bill 905 Cleanup Bill. We expect it to be in the agenda for the legislature around May or June when the budget is announced. So anticipating some progress there. We’ve been engaging with the legislative group that’s pushing this bill forward to make sure we have our views and representative there. And we believe there’s support from legislators and administration and the California Resources for. So confidence that it’s going to get addressed in 2024. As a reminder, there is also work happening at the federal level to the FEMSA regulations that could also could also work if California is not able to get there first. So it’s really a question of who can get there first. Is it California or is it the Feds, but we’re looking to advance CCS through pipeline regulation?

We also are working on a strategy where we’re doing a lot of our activity within field boundaries. And that’s what the greenfield projects that we announced and now brownfield projects with Aera. If you’re able to contain the emissions within field boundaries, you can start advancing projects, have demonstration that CCS is the technology that we all think is going to be in terms of decarbonizing the state and start test stepping into being a cash flow generator type projects as we look for the pipeline regulations to come through. But ultimately, if the state is going to be successful in reaching its objectives, we’re going to need pipelines to be able to move CO2 throughout the state. So looking forward to getting resolution, either through a state process of 905 or through the federal regulations.

Yes, Leo. So the – remember, we sold – we announced that we sold the property Round Mountain, about 900 barrels at the end of last year. So when you’re looking at the decline, you need to factor that in there, there’s an asset sale. We’ve also had some weather impact here as we started the year. But so from a reservoir perspective, the way to look at it is we’re looking at 2024 under the scenario where we can ramp up to four rigs, we’re looking at a stay-flat scenario, where we can maintain 80,000 BOEs throughout the year, with ultimately less capital that – to get to that BOE level that we had talked about before. The $300 million to $340 million also includes capital and maintenance of our Elk Hills power plant and some onetime items.

So do we see that as a scenario that hadn’t – we haven’t developed now for some time when we have the permits or the incremental rigs, if we were to be able to achieve that, then what would happen, and that’s what we’re solving for in that higher scenario. So you put $300 million to $340 million of capital and the free cash flow at the prices that we assume, it’s about $280 million. If we’re not able to get the current county resolution and we step down or maintain just the one-rig program for the year, then the capital program steps down to $200 million to $240 million, so around roughly $100 million less. And then that accrues to about a free cash flow of about $350 million, right. So, those are the rough math numbers. We wanted to provide the bookings as we have already demonstrated on the low end, what our assets and our team are able to deliver with a one-rig program, which is at 5% to 7% decline. We also wanted to provide the restoring and going back to normal levels activity, and that’s a stay-flat case, right. So, now you have both bookings to be able to triangulate on your model.

Yes. So, on the tax side, we had a gain on the Round Mountain asset. That’s what you are seeing in terms of the incremental cash tax in 4Q. There is always going to be timing. We are a full taxpayer and the timing of cash taxes, it’s difficult to predict on a quarterly basis. So, it could be lumpy. But at the end of the day, we are a full taxpayer. We have disclosed that before. And I think we also gave you the first quarter cash tax numbers to plug into your model. So – but ultimately, the increase that you saw in the last quarter is due to the Round Mountain again.

Yes. So, the Aera deal is very helpful in multiple ways. We are able to add more pore space in Kern County, which we really like. So, to the tune of 54 million tons of incremental pore space in fields that are in our backyard. So, as we are thinking through connecting brownfield emitters to our different sites, having different entry points and different storage capacity is very helpful. The – we are excited about the market. There are some discussions ongoing. If we aggregate all the people we are talking to, it’s about 20 million metric tons of emissions per year. So, the market potential is – it’s large and it’s exciting to think through. It’s about really, where we are at is how do you connect it. So, that’s where we need the pipes. And where do you store it, and as we can develop more pore space quickly, I think we are going to be well positioned to be able to receive the CO2 and ultimately, bring cash flows forward. We are developing more pore space, and a lot of the new pore spaces is in the Northern part of California. But anything that we can bolt on to Kern County and bring other projects that we will have future potential, whether it’s through our own production and reducing – increasing the pore space as we deplete our reservoirs or by acquiring some of Aera’s fields that have a potential, it’s an exciting proposition that just again brings more certainty into the brownfield market. Now, in the greenfield, as I discussed, there is a generation of emissions that Aera brings to the table that are going to be easy to capture or within – fully within our control, right. So, if you think about confidence in bringing those emissions forward, the best case scenario is to have those emissions on top of the reservoir, so co-location, and you want to have full control of those emissions. As we showed with our gas processing pre-combustion project, that gives us much more certainty to get to the finish line and the highest percent of the incentives. So, Aera allows us to do that through some of the emissions through steam floating and co-gens that they have in the portfolio. So, we like the Aera deal for multiple reasons. And a lot on the traditional oil and gas business and the synergies, but one thing to look for is how our team is going to tackle and is going to think through the Aera properties and try to bring those – accelerate those and bring those to life sooner than probably the current owner was expecting.

So, the EPA is the primary agency that approves Class VI permit. It’s a Federal permit. But they are working closely with Kern County, where we are going to have the first project out of the gate. And Kern County is running a parallel path to also get all of the local permits in place. So, maybe I will turn it to Chris to describe that in more detail.

Thanks for joining us today. We will be presenting at several investor conferences in March and we look forward to seeing you. Thanks a lot.
