Frank Sullivan
RPM International Inc. (RPM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. I think it has to do with things that we've been talking about starting in the second quarter and certainly experience in Q3, and the destocking that we experienced what Rusty was calling the bullwhip effect of inventory was more pronounced across more of our businesses and segments than we had ever seen including construction products.
And quite honestly, I think there was some hesitation once we made significant improvements in our inventory position. There is certainly more to come in the coming years but a big chunk of it happened this spring. And as the destocking more normalized inventory levels across most of our businesses, but in this case particularly in the distribution channels of construction products.

And so as weather improved and economic activity picked up and also kind of our normal seasonal pickup in the Roofing division related to schools, as schools led out in May and early June, all resulted in a stronger finish, which seems to be continuing in the early parts of the summer. So the strength in Q4 really occurred towards the end of the quarter in our Construction Products business. And I think the destocking levels to more normalized or in some cases skinnier than usual inventory, not only construction products but other parts of our business are starting to show up in a positive way.

So I would add two more elements to that, John. One is as we experienced, and this has been typical for us in our industry, there is a lag as raw materials increase particularly, as dramatically as they did between the time of the increase and when we can get price. And then as that cycle comes down, we begin to pick up lost margin. And so we are at the beginning stages of that. Just to pick on one of our segments consumer, we still aren't back to pre-COVID levels of margin activity. So there's more to come in recovering those margins.

Secondly, we'll continue to see gross margin improvement not only from cost price mix relative to improving raw material costs, but also from our MAP benefits which are real and had really good benefits for fiscal 2023. We'll continue with $120-some million or more in fiscal 2024.

And they were masked in the second half of the year by lower volumes and the unabsorption hits we took in the second half of fiscal 2023 by deliberate production shutdowns and inventory adjustments. And so those two things should combine to demonstrate some pretty solid gross margin improvement in fiscal 2024.

Yes. I -- we don't have really good insight into that right now and we read the same headlines that everyone else does about tightening in the banking and regional banking market which have been critical providers of credit for commercial construction projects. So the guidance we provided does not anticipate any pickup or rebound in commercial construction activity per se.

As I commented and Matt commented our sales forces have been able to adjust to really focus on where the dollars are being spent and the normal maintenance and repair activity of our Construction Products Group and roofing and facade restoration is picking back up again. And that's really driven by different dollars and different decision making the commercial construction. So we don't have good insight into that but we do not anticipate a pickup in commercial construction whether it's hospitality or office space anytime soon.

Sure. We have very deliberately invested in growing SG&A in a number of our businesses in particular consumer. I know that's a concern of some folks. I can tell you just an example advertising promotion and marketing activities in Q4 was up 70% from last year.

Keep in mind last year was abnormally deflated because we had some supply chain challenges and there was no point in advertising or promoting to drive people to stores or the activity that we couldn't supply sufficiently. For the full year that category is up 54%. And so we are rebuilding across a lot of our businesses and in particular consumer those promotional advertising and marketing dollars.

There are other discretionary areas where as the year progresses we see economic challenges beyond what we anticipate we can cut back. And so that's certainly there. I will tell you that in certain of our businesses, commercial construction that we just talked about in OEM, particularly, the OEM businesses that we serve in doors, kitchen cabinets, things that go into the housing market last four or five months in terms of volume sure feel recessionary to us. So hopefully that hit is being mitigated and we're starting to come out of it. Contrary to commercial construction, one area of positivity as we progress throughout the year though we're not seeing it yet is a pickup in residential construction which was a headwind for us for most of 2023.

Good morning, Mike.

Sure. So we've become somewhat more exposed to residential new construction in our construction products group in particular for instance with Nudura has a sizable share in ICF in Canada and a growing share in the US and some of the products and for facades that we put on there. And we were struggling for the entire year starting in the middle of summer last year of fiscal 2023 as residential construction declined. And it was if you -- I believe the headline is kind of a value trap where people were stuck in their homes, because of rising interest rates and concerns not only about maybe they get a higher price for their home if they sell it, but they're going to have to pay a higher price for where they went. So you saw housing turnover slow down.

But in terms of long-term trends, it's a funny dynamic because we are underserved by the rate of residential construction versus demand. We see that changing. And so a combination of easier comps as we go into 2024 for product lines that are high profit like Nudura and the sealants and coatings products that follow that, and I think a stabilization and as you see in the homebuilders anticipation of a pickup in new residential starts should serve us well.

Sure. So, again, especially our OEM tends to serve elements that actually go into the residential housing market as well. We still manufacture wood stains and finishes that go into doors, kitchen cabins. We have a particularly nice share with Amish Woodworking, again, which tends to go into residential whether it's furniture or kitchen cabinets or specialty wood. We go into the RV sector, which was hotter in COVID and then cooled off dramatically in the last year.
So all of those have been down meaningfully. DayGlo is also a part of our Specialty Products Group and is really more of a specialty chemical company supplier. And if you follow what's happening with the more commodity or specialty chemical business in this raw material deflationary environment when it's just starting we're experiencing the same negative trend there.

And then lastly, we divested this spring, the Guardian furniture warranty protection business, revenues but -- annually about $20 million. It's about $20 million in revenues but very high-margin business, but not core to RPM and found a good home for that business and that will annualize next year. But that was $20 million of lost revenue at a margin that was meaningfully higher than the SPG average.

Thank you.

Good morning, Jeff.

Sure. Jeff, that's a great question and it's an area of significant focus for RPM and our MAP '25 goals. So, first of all, you have to reset gross margin profitability in 2018 and we were aware of this for a couple of years prior, we were accounting for freight out differently than most of our peers. We incorporated it in SG&A, so it raised a number of questions about how come our SG&A is so high. So, we changed the accounting for that in 2018 by incorporating all of our freight into cost of goods sold.
So, on that readjusted basis, our forever peak gross margin that used to be represented and you're correct in -- I think it peaked close to 43%, the equivalent is about 39 -- 39.8%, so almost 40%. And so that's the right way to think about where our peak gross margins were on an adjusted basis for that accounting allocation change. We have set a target of 42% in our MAP 2025 initiative. Clearly, we have ways to go. We are making really good progress in the original MAP initiative and then had significant step back like the whole industry did relative to rapidly rising inflation and the discontinuity of the supply chain challenges.

We are experiencing similar dynamics to our coatings peers, but versus Sherwin-Williams we're on a FIFO accounting and they're on LIFO. So typically, our benefits would show up in our P&L, 60 to 75 days later. And so, I would expect you to see that. And lastly, you made the comment here which is correct. About 35% of RPM's revenues are driven by our Construction Products business nicely profitable, but different dynamics and different economic cycles than more pure-play coatings companies.

So you sound like you've been party to some of our strategy discussions with our Board over the last year or so in the sense that there's two areas of great focus. One is gross profits, which we just talked about, and the other is working capital. And our working capital is not where it needs to be. We are -- I can probably talk about different elements of our success versus our peers in the broader market.

In working capital, we are a laggard. And so there should be 300 or 400 basis points of working capital improvement out of RPM on a consistent basis over the next three to four years. And so, the working capital improvement we experienced this quarter, I think demonstrated a different RPM than maybe three or four years ago. We were able to turn off production and turn it back on even in our consumer business. We attitudinally we're able to communicate better to the Street and internally about -- it's not that we're not concerned about, but the absorption hits that we took were the right things to do.

And if we take more absorption hits by aligning our operations and the efficiency of our operations, you will see working capital continue to improve. And so, I think that's also a very smart question in an area that's gotten a lot of attention over the last 1.5 years with our Board. You're seeing the benefits of the MAP '25 program and the good cash conversion cycle in Q4, but there is significantly more to come. And again, it's an area where versus our peers, we are 300 or 400 basis points behind the curve.

Thank you.

Sure. The last unit volume sales that were positive were in the first quarter of last year. And we experienced negative unit volume or negative consumer takeaway in most of our consumer product lines and businesses throughout the rest of fiscal 2023. And it was high single-digits or low double-digits this spring. Part of it was a function of consumer takeaway and changes in consumer spending patterns.

Again things you can read about headlines about more experiences and less DIY stuff post COVID. Part of it was aggressive destocking and/or inventory adjustments within our supply chain relative to the supply chain disruptions and inventory challenges in all types of areas including for our consumer businesses.

And so I think by the time we got into the spring a lot of that customer inventory destocking or rightsizing and a lot of our own supply chain issues were behind us. It doesn't mean we won't see those things in the future relative to supply chains that have happened in consumer. But a lot of that corrected. And while consumer takeaway was still negative in the fourth quarter it was improved from the last product from the two prior quarters.

So, we're seeing the consumer week-by-week picking up and I would expect us to be positive sometime this fall in part because of what we're seeing in part because of the new products we're introducing some market share gains and also we'll be annualizing some easier comps in terms of negative consumer takeaway.

Good morning Steve.

Sure. And again another really kind of sharp strategic question. So, particularly, in the developed world, PCG, our Performance Coatings Group and our Construction Products Group had relatively small and needing more investment operations in places like the Middle East, elements of Africa, India, and Southeast Asia.

And rather than go it alone, what we've done is taking a platform approach. We have a particularly sharp management team out of South Africa, the leader there is a gentleman named Grant Boonzaier. He is a PCG leader runs their platform group. But because of the dynamics there and his success and the success of his team, they have become the platform in South Africa for Rust-Oleum that had a business there for our construction products group so Tremco and Euclid concrete repair products. And then the original businesses that they've had there for many years which were Carboline and Stonhard.

We've taken that model and again Grant is part of PCG, and we have taken the construction products group businesses in the Middle East and Africa, the Construction Products group in India and the Construction Products Group business in Southeast Asia and they are operating on a more combined basis as you're suggesting in those developing countries. We are investing in new facilities in Southeast Asia and in India that will serve multiple product lines. And all of those businesses will now report to Grant Boonzaier.

So they have shifted from reporting to the Construction Products group to reporting to what we consider the developing world platform approach and that's part of our PCG. So that's the primary driver of that $100 million shift in revenues. We would expect it to drive synergies on cost, synergies in a way of expanding revenues more quickly than if they operated on their own and improving unit margins there. Last comment I would make on that, this will have no effect whatsoever on our consolidated results or guidance.

So first of all, we are great partners with all of our retail customers and we are the leader in our small-project paint category in every major customer that you can think of and in every major channel. The only exception is one that you would easily gather which is Sherwin-Williams Paint Stores. And so we are a partner in understanding consumer takeaway and analyzing profitability. And so that's been true for many years and continues that really doesn't drive profitability. What drives profitability is innovation, new products and the strength of our brands.

And so for example, this spring and we're just advertising it now, Rust-Oleum introduced a five in one spray cap. It's patented. It was first introduced into their primary stop thrust category. You'll see that patented five in one spray tip. So it allows a consumer to adjust the spray to get a fan spray, or a narrow spray, a light spray, fan up and down pretty unique product that will be introduced across more of the product line. DAP has introduced a number of new products taking the benefits of a two-component foam and putting it in one can and that will be a consumer -- like a heavy consumer or a Pro product.

We're coming out with some other products for popcorn ceiling spray which has so far been dominated by a single supplier and we intend to become a major player in that space as well. So I think it's innovation and new product introductions and the strength of brands that allows us to maintain price levels more so than the size of our business or the relationship we have with the customers in terms of understanding consumer dynamics.

Good morning, Ghansham.

Sure. Well, three months ago and for that -- the three months prior, it was looking back and as we sat there in April, when consumer takeaway is mid to high single digits negative when you're a specialty products group and your construction products group that serve elements of the residential market in North America are negative in terms of unit volume sure felt like a recession to us.

With the exception of the Specialty Products Group companies we have seen improvement in the rest of our portfolio. And so while we're still negative consumer takeaway, it's much more modest than it was for a period of five or six months. We actually saw an uptick at the end of the quarter in our Construction Products Group particularly in the Roofing division and waterproofing. And we see signs that, the challenges in the residential construction market which were driven by a bunch of different dynamics are changing for the better this summer and we anticipate going into the rest of the year.

So -- we're red lights are turning into yellow lights and in a few places even green lights which is a nicer place to be than where we were how we felt just a few three or four months ago. And I guess lastly, I'd say, I credit our operating people in our MAP program because our ability to adjust to these dynamics as quickly as we did is way better than it used to be.

Much like my earlier comment on consumer but also here. We were within our supply chain and internally dealing with inventory challenges and destocking across our distribution for construction products and internally and that seems to have corrected itself. And I think there was some anticipation that things were moving in the right direction.

The question was whether we were going to experience that in May or June. And we had a few distributors that were hinting at, a, we can boost some product if you discount. And I think we held our pricing and held our discipline. And let's say, everybody held their breath until they needed inventory and it started showing up in May. And that positive trend is continuing as we enter the first quarter.

It's a combination of both as I commented earlier. When you look at our cycle and we experienced this as our industry did we're behind the curve in terms of catching up with raw material prices particularly during this cycle as quickly as they went up. And so we are experiencing deflation versus the prior period and versus now for the first time in the prior year. But we're not back to the margin profile in a few of our businesses that we were pre-COVID. And so we've got work to do there.

So a part of it will be the benefits of that cost price mix moving positively and we're starting to see that as is our industry. And the other benefits and we talked about it we're talking about MAP we're doing the right things on the ground. We talked about $120 million plus of benefits in fiscal 2023. It was hard to find.

We had $50 million of unabsorbed hits in our gross profit in our P&L in the second half of last year as a result of lower volume marketwise, but also the production shutdowns to right-size inventories internally. And so those MAP benefits covered a lot of that in a rising unit volume environment, which we're working hard to get back to and open for you'll start to see those MAP benefits add to that margin expansion. So those are the two dynamics, that will drive a pretty meaningful margin expansion, on what we anticipate to be relatively modest revenue growth at least for the first half of the year.

Good morning., Josh.

Yes, I don't expect them to be larger in fiscal 2024 than they were in 2023. In fact, they'll be smaller particularly in the second half. But we'll still have some level of unabsorption until we're positive unit volume everywhere. And we still will have some level of unabsorption, where we're continuing to adjust down inventory levels. As I commented earlier, we have more to do. But on the full year, we had $60 million or $70 million of unabsorbed costs, we would have substantially less than that in fiscal 2024, unless we bump into some unanticipated economic challenges.

Hi, Mike

Sure. And Mike, I would add to that just -- and we commented on this earlier. Some of our peers have had the same type of strong performance over a period of time, but not all of them have. Our Q1 of last year sales were up 17% including a lot of unit volume growth, and EBIT was up 33%. In Q2, sales were up 9% and adjusted EBIT was up 36%. So -- and those were all-time records. So, we got some big mountains to climb, in the first half of the year. I think we're confident, with what we see that we're going to be generating sales growth and EBIT growth, but more modest for the reasons that Rusty mentioned, and the dynamics that we're slowly growing out of and more modest in comparison to the prior year where we just had big numbers.

And as we -- we were all high-fiving in October of last year, because unit volume growth was solid everywhere and our MAP-driven leverage was really good. And then, boy the bottom fell out of a couple of our businesses starting in November and December, and that's what we communicated in January and in the spring. I think it's a combination of improving economics. And as I mentioned earlier, a more agile organization than maybe we were four or five years ago.

Thank you.

Morning, John.

Yeah. We -- and this is news from last year, we lost a portion of spray paint business to Baird Home Depot. In some cases it was elimination of Universal, which is one of the more high-performing products. We've been able to reposition their product in other parts of our channels and we are making up in that category for instance almost the entirety of what was lost in that transition.

And as Rusty said, we picked up share on shelf with some other major retailers. So, we're back to playing offense in our consumer business. Boy, a year ago we had supply chain challenges. We had our own operating challenges that we were addressing. I think that had as much as anything to do with the market share loss at a major customer. Those issues have been corrected. We have more than enough capacity to take on more business our spending in advertising and promotion some on normal TV a lot more online. And so, we're playing offense in terms of introducing new products, going after share and having the volume to be aggressive in ways that we didn't just a year ago.

We're still seeing solid growth in the energy markets whether it's gas and fracking. Interestingly enough, there has been a resurgence in some offshore production. And so, while there's been some volatility in oil prices per se with slowdowns in China persisting longer than people thought, I think the geopolitical issues and where the energy companies are suggest to us at least for the next year that that will continue to be a relatively solid area for business.

Hey, Frank.

Sure. So, I think directionally we would expect maybe $50 million of share repurchases next year and then would be somewhat opportunistic relative to market dynamics. We will be favoring debt reduction in small transactions.

The M&A markets both globally for big M&A and on the smaller scale have dropped dramatically. And part of that was expectations of sellers to get multiples from a year or two ago on earnings from a year or two ago. And I think there's been good discipline on the buy side again big global deals as well as small to midsized mid-market deals.
And you'll see I think a capitulation at some point relative to the interest rate environment and higher cost of capital in general, but also the higher cost of incremental capital. I think some of the M&A valuations were relatively undisciplined. Some of that came out of private equity, because for a period of time your incremental cost of capital was practically zero. That's not true anymore.

And so, if we can -- we will certainly utilize free cash flow to reduce debt improve our balance sheet modestly repurchased stock. I think it's likely that when our Board meets in October, we'll increase our dividend for the 50th consecutive year that will be a nice milestone, and then position our balance sheet to take advantage of opportunities when they show up at the right price.

Sure. It's a great question, and I appreciate you're picking up on that. Europe hurt us in terms of sales and earnings for five or six quarters in a row. And we saw an uptick at the end of Q4 and that's continuing. It's modest, like everything that we're seeing is modest, but it's modest and it's modest in the positive direction. So we're seeing sales moving in the right direction. We're seeing margin expansion.

We're also doing a -- I wouldn't call it reorganization but a focus on Europe and have one of our top executives actually moving there and take responsibility for accelerating some of the MAP programs in Europe, which is lagging the MAP initiatives that we've done in North America. And the underlying dynamic there is a positive revenue growth and some margin expansion in Europe, which we haven't seen for five or six quarters.

So, there's a lot of points of light or shoots of growth that we're seeing. And the key for us and I guess my caveat to all of that would be none of us have ever experienced a more volatile period of time than we've seen over the last two or three years. Normally, I would get excited about a three-month trend and projected into the future given the whip size that we've all seen in the last two or three years, we're going to -- we'll get excited about a trend when it feels like it's five or six months in a row.

We are seeing benefits from onshoring. We've long been a provider of fireproofing coatings and specialty flooring into the tech sector and there's significant investments there. We're seeing onshoring in other areas. And so that is benefiting us. You're seeing highway marine different areas where you're seeing pretty good investment. And so we participate in all those markets.

And I'm a little bit hesitant, because the amount of money in a $1.2 trillion infrastructure build, it's hard to track where all that is. And over what period of time it's going to flow through, but it's certainly a positive tailwind for our Performance Coatings Group and portions of our Construction Products Group.

Sure. Historically, we've been able to hold on to most of our price, and most of our businesses. The categories where that has not been true have been more commodity pass-throughs. So, in some areas of silicones, we had a lot of value in the more commodity space of silicones, we package it and sell it through, and silicone prices rose dramatically. We thought to kind of catch up on price, that's true in our Construction Products Group and in the silicone portion of our DAP business. And as silicone prices have dropped, our prices have moderated as well.

Probably the only other area where I would tell you historically, we've seen prices go up and down is in the highway portion of infrastructure pretty highly competitive there. And so you'll see prices go up and go down based on the underlying core raw materials to some of those systems.
But other than that historically, we've been able to hold on price, and that's what we're doing at this point. As I said we've got some lost margin to pick up, and I would expect that to continue for the foreseeable future.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good. Thank you.

The CapEx budget for the year Rusty.

he $250 million or so. Yes. And then on working capital, I think, I'd rather report our achievements in hindsight other than the comment I made earlier, which is we have a goal of improving our working capital as a percent of sales by 300 or 400 basis points over the next three to four years. And so if you just do the simple math call it, 100 basis points a year maybe we can do a little bit better than that.

But if you apply that 300 or 400 basis points as a percent of sales, you can get a pretty good sense of the additional cash flow that we should be able to generate on top of what we would generate based on revenue growth and our profit margin profitability.

And it's a function of us getting better more efficient and our team is doing a really good job on the MAP 2025 initiatives, and the fact that we are an underperformer in this area. So, versus our peers there is efficiencies that we are gaining that we have not had in the past. That's our challenge and it's something we're up for today relative to the disciplines we have and the approach we have now with MS-168 and a more center-led approach to our operations than what we had at RPM five years ago.

Thanks, Kevin.

Good morning, Arun.

Sure. So I think you got that right. I would add that some of the more solid or stable business activity we're seeing is a result of this bullwhip inventory effect and supply chain challenge that we saw more broadly across our businesses than we've ever seen before. And so excess inventories or having the wrong inventory in the wrong places because people overbought during a period of time where they couldn't get stuff that's been corrected. And it's been corrected perfectly? No. And is there's still adjustments here and there both at RPM and with our supply chain that will occur? Yes. But the biggest chunk of that has been corrected. So now there is a normalized demand that's serving we think an improving market in the construction area, an improving consumer takeaway although it's still modestly negative as we sit here today. And so those are the dynamics. I think that's right. So going forward improvement in the underlying dynamics. And then lastly, assuming that we avoid recession substantially easier comps for the RPM businesses and substantially better leverage capabilities if we have positive unit volume in the second half of the year. If we have a positive unit volume in the second half of the year versus what we experience this year and the internal challenges that we undertook to drive cash flow you'll see nice margin expansion. So those are the dynamics to think about for the year.

The original guide we provided on the Investor Day a little more than a year ago was $160 million for fiscal '24. And some of that's on the if come. In other words, as we realize it throughout the year it is an ongoing sustainable basis. And so we'll report on that on a quarterly basis as we get through the year. But I would expect to realize over $100 million in our P&L in fiscal '24. And on a run rate by the end of the year we will -- if we hit our targets, we'll have achieved on a run rate of $160 million. That's the plan. But again given our momentum and where we are I would expect it to at least $100 million to flow through the P&L during the year.

Thank you.

Thank you, Joe and thank you to everybody for your participation on our call today. We're excited about improving business dynamics throughout RPM in combination with the effective execution of our MAP 2025 program. We look forward to updating you on our first quarter results and talking about our dividend activity and our outlook for the balance of the year, when we're together again in October. Enjoy the rest of your summer and have a great day.