Fred Tomczyk
Cboe Global Markets, Inc. (CBOE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. So first, I think on the sharpening the focus, I mean, back to when I was on the Board and the strategy of Cboe was more asset classes, more geographies, and I thought that was pretty broad. So now that I'm the CEO, basically want to sharpen that focus, which I have always been on my predecessor about sharpening that focus and making some choices.

I think where we are right now is basically, we've built this global network. We've got the global platform. We've got most of the technology converted. We have one left.

I think it's now up to us to sharpen our focus in terms of where we see the biggest opportunity to invest organically to drive growth across that platform now that we have one common technology platform. Definitely, the M&A activity has slowed down and will continue to be slowed down. But we will continue to look at things on an opportunistic basis where we see something that's of interest to us, but we want to make sure it's strategic, it's financially attractive and it drives good shareholder value over time.

With respect to the FX business, it's performing well. It's been a good business for us. So we remain happy with that business. I understand our core game is securities and securities derivatives businesses, but the FX business continues to perform well for us. And we don't need the money or anything. So I think right now, we're very comfortable with our position there.

Yes. And as we go through the strategic review, we’ll continue to sharpen our focus. But as we’re early in the process, once we get through it more, we’ll be clear to everyone about exactly how we’re sharpening our focus.

Okay. Thanks, Patrick. I mean, certainly, this space with the regulatory uncertainty has caused this asset class to take longer to develop both than we anticipated.

Having said that, there continues to be an asset class that there’s a lot of interest in. And what many participants are looking for is what we’re trying to build: a regulatory-friendly and robust market for crypto.

Obviously, we’re happy we got the crypto ETF so. We’ve launched margin future. So we’re doing that. But we also recognize it’s going to take time to build an ecosystem for a new and emerging asset class.

So we’re trying to be patient but continue to focus on it. Right now, we’re very much focused on building out the derivative side of the crypto market, which is our bread and butter. That’s what we’re known for.

And that number two, building on a robust ecosystem of both retail and institutional market participants. And as I said, these things take time with the new and emerging asset class. But we’ll continue to monitor, make decisions accordingly.

But we think we’ll be patient here and continue to try to innovate and build a more robust market and build on the derivative side. That’s where we’re focused right now.

Okay. Do you want me to say anything?
