Fred Eppinger
Stewart Information Services Corporation (STC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning. Good morning.

Yes. The way we think about the market, as I said before is, it's a little bit of a tale of two cities, like the -- this will be the transition year towards a more normal market in '25. And I think the first six months are going to be quite challenging. So the way I think about the first quarter is kind of bouncing off the bottom. So the first quarter is getting closer of not being worse than last year. But I think the first quarter, we're going to still be worse than the previous year in orders, but closer together. And that trend you can see in what we disclosed here in purchase order trends from October, November, December, right. So again, what I think we're going to see is things coming together a little bit in the first quarter, but still the first quarter being worse than the previous year and then hopefully bouncing from there and starting to improve. Now, seasonality helps you as well, obviously going towards the second quarter. But I think that's where we are. And one of the challenges, by the way, to answer your question, just the volatility that shot up to 8% and that has really made havoc kind of with some of the order results, because what you've seen is more cancellations. When you see that kind of rapid change, you'll see an uptick, at least for us, the greater cancellation from orders, which affects the closed orders. And so that volatility has affected kind of the trends a little bit right now. But there's nothing -- again, I feel like that transition, notion of a transition next year is still a relatively good bet that hopefully the second half of the year, we're going to see some light.

Yeah. So I've mentioned this a couple of times. It's an interesting thing, right, because we've had a wild last two or three years. The way I think about our margins is that in about '21, if all things being equal, we took a company that was averaging about 2% over the decade before the journey. We got it up to about 9.5% and 10%. And my view is in '21 we had better margins, obviously, but it was because it was so much excess volume, I had a lot of offices at over 100% capacity. So it wasn't a sustainable thing but it was top of the margin. And what we've done -- the work we've done over the last year in particular, we broke the camel's back a little bit on a couple of things. I believe we picked up a couple of hundred basis points. So in a normal market that we think about at about 5 million purchase homes, I think we're instead of 9.5%, 10%, we're probably 11% to 11.5% something like that now. So we’re -- so that's kind of the general way to think about our economics. The problem is we're in one of the worst markets in 15 years and at a very low level. So I look at the numbers, that improvement I just talked about doesn't show up in the numbers, but what we've done is created what I call excess capacity, right? So as volume comes back, we won't be adding a lot of resources because of the way we've now with the operating model that we've created, part of this savings that you don't see is the fact that we have excess capacity like in our search and clear areas and some of the data management areas. So I feel like as things improve, our margins will as well. Now, again, the seasonality and the challenge in the first quarters, in my view, is going to be worse than last year. But again, I see as we come out of the year, we should have improving margins, but we're not going to be anywhere close to a normal market probably next year. But I think we're in a pretty good shape. And again, I look at this fourth quarter and this is one of the worst quarters in 17 years, 18 years and we were able to make money, right, which was not historically true. So I feel like we're in a really good position to improve margins as the market improves. If that's helpful.

No, I don't think in the short term, there isn't any material impact. In the long term, I think it's quite helpful in that we're one of the big four. We have one of the strong balance sheets. I think if you talk to agents today, they're more kind of thoughtful about, boy, I got to spread my risk a little bit. And so -- and that's true, going to be true in commercial too. And the good ones, I think, always thought about it that way. But disproportionately, that should help us just because of our share position and how many -- we don't have a ton of agents that are fully dedicated to us or anything like that. So I think that people are going to be thoughtful about spreading their risk. And it's a normal thing to think about, particularly in a business that's such an oligopoly around four strong players.

Good morning, Bose.

It's the macros, but it's also both leveraging some of the work we've done, right? This excess capacity I talked about, it's kind of sitting on the sidelines, right? And so, it's both leveraging the volume increase, but also the kind of new profile of the business. And so it's a little bit of both, but it's driven by law. I mean, the issue is we just have so little purchase volume in the system right now versus a normal year that we're kind of at the bottom as far as what we can do with expenses and managing our resources. I'm very proud of what we've done. But you would want to cut much more out of system. And that's why this first quarter is challenging because we are going to be bouncing on the bottom in this first quarter.

Sure. This is the last quarter where the BCHH acquisition comparison helps us, right, because we bought them at the beginning…

Right. So it's driven by that business, which is doing very well.

Good morning, John.

No, it's a great question. It's roughly ironically -- it's roughly about the same, probably more close to $19 million than $20 million. But there is some really important data initiatives we got going on, particularly kind of access to data that would make us more efficient. And then I have some operating technologies, just like in commercial, we have a dated operating kind of system, and so we are upgrading that. So it's roughly the same amount of money this year, there is also some additional cyber investment in there as well. So again, one of the things we did do to your question is we went through each of those investments, though, and thought about the sequence of it, giving the challenge of the first six months of the year and what gives a quicker payback, et cetera, and trying to be thoughtful about the timing and the starting of those as well. But it's really important that we do invest in those things because we just -- the company got a little bit behind on its invest -- capital investments in some areas before this journey started. And we're trying to sequence and make those investments and catch up in some of those base areas. And then some of these are us things we think that will create a better kind of, whether it's an experience for our people or experience for the customer on how we access data and kind of make decisions. And so it's good. Again, I feel like the teams -- we made good progress this year on them. The ones coming up are equally important. They're a little bit less transparent to the customer than the ones we've been doing in the past. They're a little bit more back office and operating model stuff, but it all moves us forward in a pretty good way.

So, again, one of the things that we got behind on a little bit is kind of when you deal with the agents, right, it's combined economics. And so it's really about the efficiency of the end to end process. So it has a lot to do with you integrating kind of seamlessly into their TPS and providing the kind of information they need to kind of do their business. And the other part of what we -- so we've done a lot of investments on both the integrations and with the kind of information we pass back and forth and the decisions that we can make instantly back and forth. But on top of that, we created -- when we started, we only had three states where we could provide services -- search services, and we now have the equivalent of the full country, just like the big guys services. And that's important to agents because they want to variableize their cost a little bit in a down market, so they're using more of our services to supplement the work they're doing. So what's happening now is we have a legitimate -- when we go into an agent in Florida or whatever, we have a platform that is as efficient, if not a little bit more efficient, than their other players and we have these services provider. On top of that, what we've done is provided for select agents, a concierge service to access to commercial, which makes it really efficient for an agent to be able to get access to commercial, that's probably broader geographically, perhaps, than where he is. And so that's the other part of this. So, it's an efficient way to work with them and then provide these additional services. One other point I would make, and it's one of the investments we're currently making, there's 13 states that are attorney based and they have a different TPS type thing. We're launching kind of as we speak, in the next few weeks or months, a new TPS offering for those attorney agents that make their workflows kind of efficient and easier to work with, which is a unique thing. That's different than a regular agent, and it requires different things. And so, what we constantly are thinking about, John, is how we kind of can be efficient in our integrations and interface with them. And we believe what then happens is agents, we went back to the cyber point, agents -- most agents are going to say, hey, it's safer for me to split my business a little bit and give a fair share to Stewart, they now provide as good, if not better than the others. And so that's why we're encouraged. We've had, I think, six or seven quarters of share increase in agency and we had one weird number, as you remember, in the second quarter. But other than that, it's pretty constant. We've had steady share growth in some really good states. And as kind of these improvements really get solidified geography by geography, that should continue. I feel pretty good about that.

Hey, good morning.

Yeah, so again, Geoff, really good question. So there's a couple ways to think about this. So we look at this kind of MSA by MSA. And within the MSA kind of this geographic pockets, and we've made a lot of improvement in say 30 markets or something in the last couple of years to get share and so our margins are good. But we still have kind of what I would call these sub-geographies where we were trying to get them to the scale and that we felt we needed to get them to. And at some point, you just feel like you can't given the market and to your point, the slowness of the comeback, that it was going to be kind of really hard to get there in some kind of time frame that was fair. Also, we have some consolidation opportunities from the acquisitions we've done, where you have duplicate kind of locations that are closed together, that you can kind of do some things geographically with real estate to manage the business. The other thing that has happened is some of these operational initiatives obviously have freed up our ability to not have to hire folks if people leave, et cetera, because of the efficiency that we've been gaining through our investment. So we try to be really thoughtful. My point is that we've done a lot and there isn't a lot left to do. And so I do believe seasonality is going to help us, even if the market isn't as robust as some of the scenarios are. So the first quarter is going to be quite challenging, but I think the seasonality is going to help us in the second quarter. So this is why when I talked about the first six months, we're being really prudent and sequencing investments and stuff, because I think we do have to manage ourselves like it could be what you just described, that's the way we're going to have to manage ourselves and be really thoughtful and careful. There isn't a lot more -- we don't have a lot of excess here. It doesn't mean that we are not thoughtful about managing our business and looking at under every rock and being thoughtful about sequencing, timing, and stuff. But I don't see a lot and I'm not planning a lot.

Yes. So not the first quarter, but it would be a tad better because we're going to bed up the spot, right? And again, so we've done a better job on investment income on escrow right through the whole year. We've got our operating [Technical Difficulty] a little bit more efficient. So all things being equal, be a tad better, it's just going to be clouded by the first quarter.

Okay. And I want to thank everybody for joining us for this quarter's call. I really appreciate the interest in Stewart. Thank you so much.