Fritz Holzgrefe
Saia, Inc. (SAIA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Amit. The interesting thing about the opportunity we have here is the facilities that are in our pipeline in the year, they provide a range of opportunities for us. So, some of them are moving into markets that are established, and we're going to be able to provide some incremental benefit to the customer right away. And those you'd expect to generate -- be accretive to us potentially in the year. You've got other facilities across the Great Plains states, where we have partnered with agents in those markets to provide service. And now we'll be able to go to direct to those customers, and we're really excited about that opportunity. And feedback from customers are that they're really excited about it.

So, when we think about all those things and what the opportunities are and what we're doing around focusing on our mix of business, I mean, we're -- as we look at the year, and if we have a reasonable backdrop, I think we ought to be able to think about a range of 100 to 200 basis point sort of OR improvement from '23. So, on the top end of that range, you probably have got a favorable economic sort of backdrop in the second half, but through that, I think there's a tremendous amount of opportunities to capitalize on our investments, and we're very excited about those and what it does for the customer. So, on the lower end of that range, maybe that's an environment that is not quite as strong or favorable.

But I think what we're doing right now is because we've got this customer proposition that is improving over time, that even in a softer environment, we have an opportunity to differentiate, and we have an opportunity for our team to execute. And I think we can drive those kinds of returns even while we're making substantial investments in the business.

Yeah. So Amit, I think it's an important point. So, as we've taken this freight on, we analyzed this pretty closely and we pulled forward quite a bit of sort of contract renewals into the fourth quarter. Our renewal rates year-over-year, I mean up roughly -- contracts -- the number of contracts renewed or renegotiated in the fourth quarter are up about 50% year-over-year, and our contractual renewal for the quarter in total was 8.7%.

So listen, we're very, very focused on that. And we're talking about making some pretty substantial investments in service for the customer this year. And when we do that, we've also got to make sure we generate some -- the appropriate level of return to support that level of investment. So, we're very focused on making sure that we are compensated for the service, but in order to be compensated for the service, you got to be doing a great job.

So that's kind of altogether, but we're continuing to work through and understanding the value that we're providing to the customer and in understanding what the impact is to the customer's freight on our network.

We always balance that, but I think that what's incumbent upon us is that this is a very high service level that we're providing. So, our team is very focused on making sure that we're fairly compensated for those service levels. So, we're going to get volume growth simply by some of the network coverage we're going to grow at this year. That's going to be beneficial. At the same time, while we're doing that, we get that priced in the right way. We'll continue to develop the OR profile over time. So I think it's an important part of our business case and I think if you look back at the last four or five years, this is what we do, so provide a high level of service and focus, and making sure that we are compensated for it.

Well, I think broadly for the industry, I mean, the underlying costs for the industry are inflationary, right? And I think that's an important note. And I think that those that choose to invest in service levels, that's probably doubly inflationary, right? So, you have to really remain focused on balancing that equation. I think that the industry dynamics broadly -- those trends aren't going to change in the coming year in terms of what the underlying inflationary costs are. So I think that you'll consider -- continue to see positive pricing in the business. When I think about Saia, I think about what our relative position is, and I look at our relative service and I look at our relative sort of pricing opportunity is, I think that's pretty positive for us.

Scott, thank you for bringing up that. Let me just clarify my comments around the contractual renewals. So those would be the number of contracts year-over-year increased by 50%. So, it wasn't 50% of the book of business or something like that. It was just the absolute number of contracts. The key thing with that is, as you know, those contracts are effectively pricing agreements. They don't have a volume commitment to it. So what we end up doing, we're very pleased with how that process went. Now it's a matter of making sure that we hang on to the business going forward. But I think it's a directional indication that's pretty positive kind of a trend for us. So we think about it in that context, but it was the number of contracts that we physically renewed this year versus last.

I think you obviously have the one-off related to the real estate here in the Yellow auction. I think what you're going to see over time as we grow the company, you're going to see elevated levels of CapEx investment that -- reflective of that growth. So, I think you'd expect to see it step down and then I think you'd see it expect to, over time, normalize. We still won't have all the levels of -- or all the real estate or all the locations that we think we ultimately want to have and in underlying all this, I think it's important to understand that real estate line is that we've got some pretty nice investments in the legacy network in order to support a growing business. So I think you'll see us continue to invest in real estate over time. The fleet will have to match that. You'll see the OR improve over time. We'll be able to fund a lot of this from operating cash flow.

Thanks for the question. So a couple of things. As far as the timing of this, it's going to be spread out over the year. There's some of the facilities that we recently acquired that had -- requires some level of investment to meet the standard that we expect out of a facility, so they'll open in the year. The Great Plains facilities, they will open in bunch, probably more in the second half of this year. if you studied the -- what we purchased, you'd know that we bought facilities like Laredo or Trenton and we acquired rights to facilities in Cheyenne and St. George, Utah. Those terminals are not in any way similar, the comparison there. So some big, some small.

So I think you'll see it spread out over the year. I don't really have a comment specifically on what the revenue add is for those facilities because when we made those investments and any investment we're thinking about what the 10-year opportunity is for that and what the market share opportunity is. So, based on our history and we're looking back, we know that when we enter a market, we have the opportunity in that addressable market, and it's important to understand the ZIP codes around those markets. And maybe in the first year, we ought to be able to get 1% of revenue in those discrete markets or sort of 1% market share. And we've shown that we can do that.

So I think what you'll see over time is that, that will be part of our growth for the year as well as ongoing initiatives. Don't forget about the last several facilities, actually the last 20 that we've purchased, that there's still a lot of opportunity there for us as well. So I think the -- we've got some -- we're pretty pleased with what the opportunities are for us.

I don't know that I've got a good view on what the fate is of the facilities that we might exit. I think we're still waiting over time to see how the industry repositions the assets that have been redeployed here. If you look at Saia's growth discretely over the last number of years, I mean, we've made -- a lot of our footprint expansion has been tied to adding facilities and opening doors at some of our larger competitors may be exiting. So as we continue to grow, I mean, theoretically, those that are sort of below us that may take on some of that. So I think it's probably still early to call on what -- where ours specifically go, but I think that a fair number of the ones that were in the industry likely will exit the industry because as you watch the auction process unfold, you saw that not all of them cleared. So I think there's some number of those that probably leave the market entirely.

It certainly helps, and it gets you some bets with customers that have very high levels of service requirements. And we've got some incumbent large accounts that they look at our footprint, and they're really excited about what we've just added because for them, we help solve a problem. They get a very -- they appreciate the very high level of service that they're getting from Saia right now, and now we can go more points for those customers, they value that. And we like some of the customers that consider a strategic in those situations, those are people that are paying for service and greatly value service. And for them, they make money and their business is dependent upon a supply chain and LTL partner that is reliable and on time and low damage. So they're not worried about necessarily pricing per se. They're thinking more about value. So in that scenario, having more batch for them, that's a win for us and we like that. And we're seeing that as we deal with a lot of the larger national accounts that have been satisfied with what they've been getting from us.

Yeah. So, from here, I would expect the contract renewals to be pretty ratable for the balance of the year. But you know what is the mix of business as we continue to assess what we're taking on as part of the sort of industry disruption, right? I mean, freight is moving around a bit from carrier to carrier here too. So as we continue to assess with coming our way, we may push again on those renewals to maybe accelerate some of that. But I think it's important for us to continue to manage that mix. And that's kind of what we started off with in Q4.

When you think about capacities here, so I think we feel pretty good at any point in time in the network, and it's all dependent on where that freight comes from. We've added -- we had a real pinch point in Salt Lake City, as an example, last year, and we've added a facility that's significantly bigger than where we were, and that has freed up capacity in that market. So for us, we manage it market to market. And I think in total, you'd say that we probably got 20%-ish sort of excess capacity, but you're also seeing us make a pretty significant investment here in our fleet, namely to make sure we've got ample capacity to continue to provide really high levels of service. We want to invest ahead a little bit there so that we're in a position that when that customer has got that extra drop trailer or that, that extra opportunity in a new facility that we're in a position to get that business and do a great job for them.

So, we like the overall position of where we are. We study it market by market. As we grow, we're continuing to invest in those pinch points. But I think we feel pretty good with where we are.

No. I think that what you have to look at, when we study that, we talk about pricing opportunity over time, freight selection opportunity over time. We talk about linehaul optimization over time. Not only is that how we utilize PT, but it's also how we utilize our own assets, driving the load averages, those sorts of things. It's rather than handing off freight, and to an agent to make that delivery in the Great Plains states, that's having a Saia freight truck making that delivery, right? That's building scale in that network. So all those things together around providing that value proposition, that's what drives the OR improvement over time. We'll invest in the business to continue to maintain that and improve it.

As you build scale in the business naturally and we've said this all along when it comes to PT, as you build scale in the business, you have the opportunity to build your own linehaul network internally because you have the appropriate scale to do that. In some cases, as in a smaller company, you use maybe a little bit more PT simply because you don't have the infrastructure or the balance of the network. So you use PT assets to leverage that opportunity to service the customer. Now as you grow your business, you have the opportunity to further balance lanes across the network and use a little bit relatively less PT because you're using more of your own assets.

But important, all of that, the biggest driver of value in size business without a doubt is getting the pricing right, getting that mix of the business right, and that's the most critical thing to OR improvement.

Thanks, Tom. The way I think about this is you got to start with what you think the macro assumption is going to be in the second half, and that's kind of that -- whatever that is. And from my perspective, I think it's probably a pretty -- I don't see anything that would say that it's going to be a big change, but it could be, right? In the second half, we could see growth that comes out of that.

What I would specifically say though, as I look at Saia's position in the market, I look at this as we open these facilities, we're on an equal footing with some of the other national carriers. And I think from a quality perspective, I think we're on a leading position versus some of the national carriers. And I think that is if we continue to focus on the right mix of business, there's a share gain for us, opportunity, not only in the first half as things continue to settle, but into the second half.

So I think it's in a more tepid environment, it's probably at the low end of any sort of range, right, in terms of shipments and tonnage growth. But I think that our -- focusing on what we can control, there's an opportunity for us to continue to grow through the market. Now in a more limited sort of economic environment in the second half, it's probably a little bit slower. But the opportunity is there for us, and we're very focused on that.

Yes. I mean I think it's probably consistent with what we've seen from the trends we've had in the last few months. Doug gave us the update on. I think we feel pretty good about our positioning there. We feel pretty good about our ability to further scale from here if we need to. But yes, I think we're appropriately positioned right now. But as we go into a seasonally peak times, I think we continue to scale up from here, and that's our tradition. That's what we've -- that's kind of how we've operated it. So I feel pretty good about our value proposition to attract people as we need, and I feel pretty good about we're staffed right now.

So Jason, we are aware of everything that's still in the market, and we kind of continuously look at those assets as well as others in our pipeline. So yes, that's part of potential opportunity for sure. And maybe some of those assets are particularly attractive to a competitor, and maybe that's an opportunity for that competitor to move from their current facility to a new facility. And then maybe that leaves -- creates an opportunity for us in another facility. So it's, yes, I think there's potentially some opportunities.

Good question. We monitor it closely. I'm not aware of anything right now.

Thank you.

Yes. I mean I think we would expect that CapEx is going to help us expand that, right, and more on the equipment side, so particularly at trailer investments. So, those are important that gives you flexibility, the value -- the incremental value you can provide to your customer, that's really important. So we'd look to drive that capacity a bit there, expand that capacity a bit.

Well, I mean, yes, you're going to see natural growth in the industry. You're going to see -- so people are making their investments to support their business model and plans. I don't think that you're going to see all that capacity come back to the industry, what percentage of that remains to be seen. But as I look at it, the only places that we're adding new greenfield facilities is when they're in markets where there isn't anything available. So that -- I don't know that, that's a -- that's not material to the market generally. And I think in the others, what you're seeing is at least some percentage of that capacity from Yellows is being redistributed, but I don't think all of it's coming back. I mean they weren't operating at its most basic level, they weren't operating at capacity. So they had surplus capacity in that business anyway. So, I don't suspect that the -- that would become new capacity in the industry. So a lot of it's just going to be redistributed.

I think that the -- what we would say is that the reaction to the GRI is pretty consistent with what we've seen historically. I don't know that any of that was materially different one way or the other. I think it is important, though, I think we need to highlight that the GRI was in December, right? So that's not a -- there are a lot of externalities, could be holiday, it could be weather in that period of time. But from what we've seen so far, it's the typical level of acceptance there. The good thing is that we're maintaining that high level of service. So it's a little bit hard for somebody to switch. And I think, generally speaking, over time, you saw the contractual renewal in the fourth quarter plus 8.7%. You saw the GRI, I mean that speaks to the initiatives around making sure we get the pricing right and the mix of business right.

I think you'd see steady improvement over time. But let's be clear. That's a pretty low number as it is right now and how we calculated and reported, that's a pretty good number. It's a differentiating number, and it's a number that, although it has been a bit steady, it is consistent. And customers really expect consistency. And I think the other thing that customers really care about is that you pick up the freight and you deliver when you say you're going to deliver it. So if you think about the capacity investments that we're making around our fleet, that's all about making sure that you also hit the other service metrics that are critical for the customer. So certainly, we don't damage the freight, but we also have to be able to pick up the freight and deliver it when the customer expects.

So those are also part of that service equation. So those are all things that we're doing. And then you add in the fact you add terminals and markets close to where the customer needs you to be, that further enhances your ability to deliver services. So services defined more than just claims.

Yes, it's a good question. I think we're kind of [Technical Difficulty] a little bit of uncharted territory for Saia, which is a pretty exciting place to be. I think as you look at the national players, the bigger folks in us, they have a bigger footprint than we do. So I think there's some runway beyond the 212, 215 number. I think there's probably 10-plus per year for a couple of years after that potentially. But I think what's really important on the investment piece, and we're already kind of getting there, where when you scale the business like we have, some of your important facilities become -- I don't want to say they're not pinch points but once you have to invest and kind of further develop those facilities.

I mean, case in point, Harrisburg facility, which we moved into in 2018 or so. And we have -- we're basically going to double the capacity of that facility here in the balance of this year. And that is all reflective of Northeast kind of growth that we've seen, the business sort of density we've seen develop over time. So I think you'll see us continue to make those kinds of investments in markets. So I think there's -- maybe it's not incremental pins on the map but it will be sort of investments in sort of legacy facilities that just have got a scale with a business that's a national-level business that's with growing market share. So I think the -- it's an interesting redeployment of capital that remains for this business for some time.

Hey, good morning, Tyler.

Yes. I think that's a good insight, Tyler. The gating item around opening facilities, one, if there's a lease facility, we're going to make sure that it's a place that meets the Saia standard in terms of safety and good place for a colleague to come to work every day. So, we're going to make the needed investments there. We'll make sure that if it remains to be leased, that it's got the appropriate sort of term and such. So yes, those would probably move closer to the front of the list.

The other element you look at is, in some cases, you have a facility that maybe has got some sort of local zoning requirement that says you've got to be active in business to be able to maintain zoning. So those would be next in line. And then there are also ones that just have a real meaningful market opportunity, which we've moved those in line.

Now some of the others, all the ones we purchased have significant value to us longer term. Some of them may just simply be an upsize or a lease replacement. The ones that we don't open this year would be sort of available and we make the important upgrades and put into service at a later time. So that would be how we manage that.

Tyler, you know when we think about network expansion, we don't think about this year, we're looking at a 10- or 12-year horizon. So those doors, that's all about runway.

Tyler, you broke up just a little bit at the beginning. I want to make sure I got this right. You were referring to -- you said interline?

Yes. Great. I don't have the number, Tyler, but you're right. That's a tremendous opportunity for us, right, in terms of -- certainly, there's the cost element in building the density around that network. But from a customer perspective, that customer experience is so critical in those markets, absolutely, that will be a positive.

Yes.

Okay. See you, Tyler.

Yeah. Thank you for taking the time to join us to talk about the compelling opportunities for Saia. We're excited to start the 100th year of our company with a really, really exciting investment opportunity, growth opportunity, and we look forward to talking about those success at the end of the next quarter. Thank you.