Ganesh Moorthy
Microchip Technology Incorporated (MCHP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Generally speaking, I would say there are a cross section of those requests from many geographies, many customers, many end markets. We also continue to have constrained products on which that are shortages that we're trying to accelerate product for. So it is not only one directional in which the demand requests are coming in at.

They're going to be darn good. If you look at our history, you can get a pretty good idea of what the gross margin trough-to-peak or peak-to-trough look like. We are sitting at 48% operating margin, giving you 8 percentage points as a bottom end of where is this going to be an operating margin, I think you can draw the conclusion relatively easily.

So we have not adopted a consistent practice of providing more than one quarter guidance. At certain points of time, we have elected to provide more than one quarter guidance or directional guidance sometimes and this is when we believed it would help investors and analysts better frame our current quarter guidance. Having provided the extra quarter of directional guidance for three quarters in a row, it did not appear to add much value to analysts or investors who are more worried about the overall semiconductor industry cycle. And in fact, it seemed to elicit more skepticism in our ability to provide guidance and confidence in our understanding of the business. And therefore, we've decided to end the temporary practice we started and over to just providing one quarter’s guidance.

So maybe let me clarify. All PSP backlog is non-cancelable, non-reschedulable. What I have said before is that we are not flexible in the non-cancelable portion, we are flexible on the non-reschedulable and that's where we're pushing up. So we are pushing our backlog, PSP or not into further quarters. And that's the way in which we support customers whose business environment has changed and who have concern about their inventory level and in the process, hopefully, create less of an overhang that we will run into and more of a soft landing for our own business. But we are flexible on the reschedulability, just not on the non-cancelablity.

You're welcome.

In an absolute sense. There's no end market that I can say is the only one that has a problem or one that has no problem at all. It's all on a relative basis. And so the strength comes from those end markets where there's far better resilience, far better end market characteristics. Those are the ones we described as industrial, including aerospace and defense, automotive, parts of the data center that we have exposure to. And even if you look at industrial, I know different people have had different comments on it, but our exposure in industrial is dominated by aerospace and defense, renewable energy, energy efficiency, factory automation, medical, infrastructure. These are all the parts of industrial that dominate us.

Now within that, is there going to be somebody asking for a pushout or reschedule or a swap of certain products? Sure, there'll be some of that. But in the aggregate, that end market is doing extremely well compared to the rest of the end markets that perhaps are in consumer and phones and others, which we don't have much exposure to.

No. I think you stated it exactly so. And as we've always said, right, the operating expenses are an investment in the long-term growth profitability resilience of our results. And so those investments need to be made and to have years and years of return on those investments. And we are below our target, but as things settle out over time, that will creep up, but not at an accelerated rate.

So pricing is not any difference between PSP and non-PSP. So I'll give you a more general answer for just our overall methodology. Pricing for us is a strategic exercise. We provide products that are sole-sourced products, they are proprietary products and customers place their trust in us years before they go to production and then they're with us for many, many years to come. Traditionally, over the years, we have not had annual price reductions necessarily as a consistent part of what we do. In the last two years, we've had inflation at a much higher rate than what we would absorb with our improvements, and we did pass along price increases that would absorb the cost increases, keeping it margin neutral, and that has not changed and that we don't expect to change as we go forward. So pricing is stable and strategic and I think, in our thought process.

And we don't expect the reduction of inventory days to affect what we're going to do in our factories in terms of underloading them. So the internal factories are running lower inventory and they will run constant through this cycle. And so there's no under absorption issue to be concerned about.

So we still have significant backlog in excess of our sales. And we have backlog over multiple quarters, and we continue to get new bookings and backlog that layers in over time. The backlog is a function of also where customers view lead times are going to be headed, not so much what they're going to be consuming. And so as lead times slowly pull in, we do expect that customers will slow down some of what they want to do in terms of placing backlog. Now any kind of inventory adjustment is not a permanent change in this industry, right. A year ago, we were – we had a completely different view of where things were. And a year from now, we may have a completely different view of where things are likely to be. I think many customers are strategic in their thinking, have very high-value end products and what they're doing. And so they are more strategic in how they're thinking about their inventory over time and what backlog they will place. But we don't see any concern with the amount of backlog we need to be able to achieve the guidance that we have provided and the soft landing that we're trying to drive towards. Obviously, it still will require bookings to come in and that is all driven by how consumption continues.

So I would say China is stable. I don't see a major uptick from China post Chinese New Year and we will see how the rest of the year goes. I think there is opportunity for China to strengthen and contribute some tailwinds as we go through the rest of the year. But I can't say that we can see that today in what we see with the auto patterns.

So the percent of backlog that is PSP has amazingly been consistent for the last, I would say, nine to 12 months. So even as overall backlog has been slowly ticking down, right? PSP as a percent of total backlog, it's well over 50%, have stayed at that level. So it is resilient backlog. It is higher quality backlog than what we see.

Not on price. I think there have been customers asking for help on PSP backlog that they wanted to have pushed out in time. And as I mentioned earlier in my prepared remarks, that is something that we have been actively doing to enable them to have that. It's a strange environment where I think in the shorter term, there are more people looking to push out because they're uncertain about their business. But we're also seeing cases where people who wanted to push out several months ago coming back in and wanting to pull it back in as well. So I think sometimes there is an overcorrection on both sides, and I would not be surprised as we go through the second half of this year that some of all the push outs that are happening today if the environment strengthens, it could just as well come right back out at that point in time. But in today's environment, it's very murky.

Thank you.

So our visibility into customer inventory is not there because they don't share that with us. We can infer their inventory by their request for pushouts or cancellations as the case might be. Where there is cancelable backlog or cancelable – basically anytime there's – or reschedule backlog, they can do that. Where it is non-reschedulable and noncancelable and they ask for help, then we get involved in it. But it's hard for us to know where customer is and their inventory correction position. We can see that in distribution. And there, we get a weekly report, it tells us by distributor in different parts of the world where is that?

As Eric mentioned, distribution days of inventory went up by two days from 22 to 24 days. Still well in control, below where it used to be historically and where is at. And so that's about as much color as we can give you on kind of customer inventory or end customer inventory.

So let me clarify. I don't know where that perception was set, maybe what we said in the past. We have been pushing out orders from customers, PSP customers for multiple quarters, right? I mean we're in this to be responsive to the market, but we also want to make sure that as noncancelable orders get placed, there is a symmetric responsibility from us and from our customers, and that's what creates some resistance to placing orders that they shouldn't be placing or that are speculative and where they're at. So we've done this multiple quarters. This is not the first quarter we're doing it. And it is in response to where markets and customers and specific situations are at. And we will continue to do it as needed, including in this quarter.

I believe the unsupported backlog was greater than the amount that we shipped in the quarter, but I think it's becoming a less relevant indicator at this point, right? We are unsupported means it's on our backlog, it is noncancelable. But we are helping – and nonreschedulable, but we are actively allowing customers to reschedule it out in time. And so we don't pay that much attention to it today as we did a year ago. Today, it's really making sure that we are shipping to customers who need the product. We're helping customers who are asking for help and working towards setting this thing up to not have an overhang to the best extent that we can.

Absolutely. And I would say we are getting tailwinds from the AI servers and we are represented in those. Many of our PCI switches are an analytical part of that. The storage in general, is stable, but it has experienced substantial growth over the last year. And the data center is holding up. Obviously, not as strong today as it was from a year-ago growth but still stable.

I'm sure there's a portion of that, that falls into that. But you've also got to think about the environment is more stressful for our customers today with where inflation is at, where interest rate is at, what the economy in general is doing in terms of relative growth rate from a year-ago. And so they placed orders with the best intention with the best information that they had back in time. And as the environment has changed, are, in some cases, seeing their demand picture different and therefore, asking for our supply picture to adapt to where they're at. I don't believe this is a permanent change. I think these things go in cycles. And I do think as the economy at some point reverses and gathers more strength as the macro gathers more strength. Many of these will come right back up. And I do expect if history is to be repeated, we will, at some point, go back into people asking for expedites on things that maybe three months ago, six months ago, they were asking for pushouts. It's the nature of the beast and people have the best visibility at any point in time. But as that visibility pushes out their need or pulls in their need, they will signal to us what we have to do to help them.

To the earlier question, ASP trends tend to be reasonably stable. We have passed along price increases to a lesser extent than what we have, I don't know, always absorbed from a cost standpoint, trying to be margin neutral to make sure that between the improvements we're making in our own business, and the pricing from a market standpoint being reasonable to the customer. So ASPs today, if you were to compare them with a year-ago are slightly higher, but there are stable trends on the [indiscernible].

It's next to impossible to give you a number because we serve about 125,000 customers, about 115 of them are indirect through our distributor channels. So we don't really hear customer by customer where it's at. I would say that it's not the majority of the business that we're doing, it's specific customers and specific markets in any given day, that's there. So there's not a wholesale. I want to push everything out that's out there.

Those two are interconnected, right? It's not that – it's only one or the other. So weaker demand results in more inventory, which last some longer or stronger demand results in needing to expedite as well. So it's hard to parse those out. There's some of both that's in there. And in many of these – our customers who are also facing uncertainty perhaps – so it may not just be demand alone, but the environment that they're in, and they are trying to decide how should they navigate their environment. And so what we see in the end is the aggregate feedback or request that they provide us.

And with all of that, we're able to show continuing growth into this quarter, into the June quarter. As it stands right now, we believe it is highly unlikely at the September quarter is going to have a sequential down quarter and that's a basis of all of our integrated information from customers on what they're seeing on internal data that we see in all of our indicators, bookings, backlog, expediter class, pushout requests, all the external data that we track, GDP, PMI, consumer confidence, inflation, et cetera. And so that's what gives us the confidence in our business.

You are Welcome.

I want to thank everybody for your time and questions this afternoon. We will be seeing many of you on the road as we come out to different conferences, et cetera. And thank you again.