Garrick Rochow
CMS Energy Corporation (CMS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Those traditional, what I call, outside of base growth, so those growth drivers outside of traditional rate base – energy efficiency, financial compensation mechanism and DIG – those are powerful in the plan.

And you asked specifically about Dearborn Industrial Generation. We are seeing both energy and capacity of prices elevated, particularly in the out years of the plan. We have available capacity beyond 2026 out through the plan. We're layering in contracts, really as we speak, which with attractive numbers and which gives us confidence in our plan, particularly in the out-years through DIG.

First of all, this is not a new filing. It is a more important filing. It is a bigger filing. As you might imagine, if you're going to achieve 60% renewable by 2035 or 50% by 2030, it has to grow from a size perspective. So it takes on increased importance.

It's also important to remember it's based on energy versus the Integrated Resource Plan, which is based on capacity. So that work is underway. And it's really a spectrum. To meet that standard, do you do all PPAs? That's one bookend. Or do you do all ownership?

I view it somewhere in the middle. But what's the strength of this energy law is there's a lot of flexibility to be able to start that path to those clean energy ambitions. We've got to think about what the customer impact is. We're still required as a load serving entity to meet resource capacity constraints in the IRP. So that's a consideration. We've got to look at the balance sheet. And here's a really capital light option where we can get an FCM at 9%. That's a really attractive part of this energy law. So there's a lot of dynamics that have to play out in there. That work is underway right now.

We will file that Renewable Energy Plan in the second half of the year. We have until 2025 to get it done, but we want to pull that forward into 2024, given the work that has to be done and these milestones that are out there.

So we'll file that. The commission has and staff has 10 months to get to a final order. And then that information there will certainly aid our capital plan and the upside from an FCM mechanism, but also flows into our Integrated Resource Plan. And that Integrated Resource Plan should become less complex because of this Renewable Energy Plan work.

Ultimately, that then flows into rate cases as we move forward over time on the annual frequency.

So, I know Rejji has some more comments on this as well. So, I'll pass it to Rejji.

Jeremy, things are progressing nicely. I feel good about a constructive outcome. Staff had a great starting spot on what I think can be a constructive outcome and feel confident that we can get there. There's a lot of positive indicators. Support for the important work on reliability. I would say there's a great alignment between staff and, frankly, the commissioners on where we want to go, improve reliability in the state. That's a big part of this electric rate case. And also, positive indicators on the mechanisms that we've talked about in the past, this infrastructure recovery mechanism. We think that's really important from a go forward reliability perspective. It also lines up with [indiscernible] have shared about ring fencing and providing opportunity to capital to see the insight of where those investments are and how they make a difference. And then, finally, our undergrounding pilot. That's seeing support as well. That's an important first step in this resiliency play and our larger ambitions that are evident in our reliability roadmap.

So, again, I feel really good about where the case is headed. And we expect the final order on or before March 1.

Let me just reinforce that. And the way I would like to think about, add on to Rejji's good comments there, is that clean energy piece in the supply, it's what's approved in our 2022 IRP. And the upside will be to the tail end because we haven't built in any of this new energy law, as Rejji stated in some earlier comments. So, as that renewable energy plan is filed and eventually approved, then you'll see that it will slightly hit the tail, but even beyond the five years, you can see a nice path of 10 years of investment opportunity as a result of this energy law.

We're watching the activity on Palisades. But I just want to remind everybody on the call here, we're not involved in Palisades. And from a PPA perspective, it's spoken for, both with two coops. And so, we're not engaged at all within that process.

Now, we hope, from an implication perspective, we think it's great for Michigan, and we wish them well and success in getting the plan up and operational.

No change in the resource planning. And I would just remind everybody, even with that potential out there, we see great opportunities in energy and capacity that are evident at Dearborn Industrial Generation.

Let me start and then I'll pass it over to Rejji too. There's a lot of great things going on in Michigan from an economic development perspective. Onshore and friend-shoring, benefits of the CHIPS Act, IRA, we're seeing growth in polysilicon, we're seeing growth in semiconductors, we're seen growth in agricultural processing, battery manufacturing, and parts that go into vehicles and the like. So just a lot of manufacturing growth, which I love. Frankly, it creates jobs. It has a supply chain that goes with it. And frankly, there's a lot of margin in those areas.

To your point, we're also seeing some data center growth. That's part of the plan. But we get really excited with the manufacturing side just because of the other additional benefits that are associated with that.

So, that's kind of a big level picture. And that pipeline continues. We've got a nice pipeline of growth into the years. And I want to remind everybody, we're playing conservatively. And we're not counting any of that upward supply and sales type opportunities until we see the meter spinning. So that's just our conservative approach.

But let me hand it over to Rejji for some additional comments.

We have a historic practice, and we're coming off a four or five – I have lost track now – settlements. And so, that's still part of our makeup. We're still going to look at how to – when a case is underway, how we best reach the right conclusion for our customers and for our investors. And so, we look at those opportunities. I've been on these calls before and said, I look for any opportunity for settlement when the conditions are right. But we're also comfortable going forward because we're that confident on our ability to get a constructive outcome here in Michigan.

This gas case that we filed in December, fairly straightforward. I'm hopeful that we can reach a settlement. Again, if it doesn't, that's okay, too. We can get a constructive outcome here in Michigan.

The process is well underway, Michael, and it's improving. We've seen a move from a handful of metrics down to four metrics that are very benchmarkable across the industry. Our next set of comments are due by February 2.

And what we're leaning into in those comments is a better connection between these outcomes and reliability and more certainty on capital recovery. If you look at best practices for performance based rate making across the country, frankly across the globe, there's a greater tie between here's the outcome and here's the certainty on recovery. So we're wanting to make sure in our comments that that is true here in Michigan. And so, that's the work that's underway.

So we'll continue to follow the process. And I'm sure here, just given the constructive nature of Michigan, we can get to a place, a good landing spot for PBR.

We're still in process right now. Like I said, comments are due here February 2. Ideally, here, there's some milestones around May timeframe as well, but we haven't got a clear picture on ending perspective.

The next electric rate case will be on this one.

Julien, to be clear, this is with respect to the new energy legislation?

Needless to say, as we've always talked about when we prepare, not just this five year plan or prior plans, but future plan, the key governors will be affordability, balance sheet, and can we get the work done. And as it pertains to new energy legislation, yes, it does create additional opportunities, whether that's on the capital investment side or on contracts with the financial compensation mechanism. But, trust, we will not turn a blind eye to affordability.

And what makes us really excited about the opportunity going forward is when you think about our current energy mix and how we're sourcing energy, we have about $1.5 billion that we spend each year on a combination of PPAs as well as open market repurchases that we're paying a pretty high levelized cost of energy on a weighted average basis. And so, with the new energy law going into effect and the opportunities associated there with, we think there's a lot of headroom to get economics on energy going forward without increasing customer bills.

Now, there's a lot more process left, as Garrick noted, but we do think there's a lot of headroom already in bills for us to potentially deliver on that triple bottom line where there's nice economic opportunity for investors, but, again, not doing that to the detriment of customers.

It's expected in the context of a year that you're going to have projects. Andrew, I have 25 years in this business and no project goes exactly as you planned. And sometimes they shift and move. And particularly, with the solar piece, as Rejji mentioned in his prepared remarks, it's really not the supply chain at this point. We've got a lock in on panels and the like. It is really about local entities and siting and permitting. Now we work through that. It just means we might move to a different community or there might be different setbacks that we have to work through. All that is doable, but it does create some shifts in the context of the year.

The key pieces, it's not moving. We still have to deliver on 2030 50% renewables, so you have to be at 60% by 2035. That doesn't change. And so, if it's not in this year, it just moves to a different year. And we'll continue that project. So there's a bit of shifting that ends up moving on the capital plan. So hopefully that helps.

Rejji's got a comment as well.

As I've shared in previous calls, Durgesh, we're working on proven reliability. You can see that in the capital investment plan. You can see that in the reliability roadmap. We're focused on and the Commission is focused on it, the audits underway, good process audit, and I look forward to the results and would anticipate we're going to incorporate in the future rate cases.

From a process perspective, still looks like we're on track for a September timeframe.

What I love about this energy law is there is a lot of flexibility. There's just a ton of flexibility in there. And that's a strength. And that's served us well in previous energy laws. If you go back to 2016, Integrated Resource Plan, you build a plan that works for your customers, works for your investors and allows you to deliver the energy supply that you need across your service area.

Our focus right now is really on this first step, which is the Renewable Energy Plan. And that is wind, it's solar, it's hydros, we have to hit a milestone by 2030 of 50% and then by 2035 of 60%. Those are important milestones first. So that's our focus right now.

Now, we're not taking our eye off the ball. Like 2040, we have to have 100% clean energy. There's a milestone along that journey as well. That will get into the carbon capture, that will get into other considerations and how we meet that. So that's a broader definition where nuclear is part of it, natural gas with carbon capture.

I anticipate that, once we get this Renewable Energy Plan finalized, we're going to start looking out there at those other future sources. Right now, we would see it, given our natural gas fleet, as consideration for carbon capture as one of the options, but we're not taking anything off the table. You've got to have a wide open landscape, we've got to do right math, got to make sure we have the right plan for our customers and for our investors. So we're not saying no to anything. So hopefully that helps.

It's a great question. There's a lot of dynamics that play out in any type of construction, whether you're putting in a gas pipeline or whether you're building renewables. And we've really, at a ground level, from a community perspective, is where we see the opportunity to be able to best influence this.

For example, we completed the 201 megawatt Heartland wind farm up in the Gratiot County. Gratiot County and surrounding counties have been very welcoming to renewables. And so, we know that because we're on the ground making that happen. And that's the way we intend to approach these at a very local level.

Now there has been a siting reform in the state that was signed in November timeframe by our governor. That has to be implemented by the Commission. And so, there's some work there. But that could also help from a siting perspective, as we move forward.

I would remind you too, within this New Energy Law, we have the opportunity to be outside of Michigan as well in MISO. And so, we're going to look for a lot of – there's windier states, there's sunnier states, we're going to look for those areas where projects are underway, or there's a good siting opportunity to be able to connect and be able to achieve the clean energy standard as well.

As I shared also, when I think forward about this new energy standard, it's a mix, right? Not all ownership, it's not all PPAs, there's probably a blend that makes the most sense. And that's what we're figuring out right now. So that gives us a lot of options. Again, that's the strength of this to be able to find all those important resources, get them all sited and get them constructed.

I would also remind you, last comment, I'm a little long winded here. But there is flexibility in this law. If you're not there exactly in 2030 or 2035, you can get an exception through the Public Service Commission. So that also offers flexibility to be able to achieve these ambitious clean energy goals.

Thank you, Emily. And I'd like to thank all of you for joining us today for year-end earnings call. I look forward to seeing you on the road here in the near future. Take care and stay safe.