Gary Bhojwani
CNO Financial Group, Inc. (CNO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Ryan, I would add one other thing to -- Brian, can you hear me okay?

I just wanted to remind you and our shareholders, the senior management team, notably myself and Paul, but others -- we have ROE expansion in our targets. Our incentive comp is based on hitting certain ROE targets and so on. So we are very focused on this, and as Paul indicated, we believe there's an opportunity to drive this up.

Yes, I can give a very high level comment. And then Eric, I'd invite you to provide some color. So I guess I'd make two points, Brian. Number one, it's variable by definition, and it's -- so it's going to be volatile. And then the second point I'd make is, as I indicated in my earlier comments, our plan for the year and the related guidance that we've provided, assumes that all generate a return that's consistent with our long-term, sort of on average run rate expectation, which is around 9% -- 9.5% call it. Is that what we expect in the next three to six months? Probably not. There's probably more downside risk there than upside. But over the course of the next 12 months, I think it's not an unrealistic expectation. So I'd leave it there, Eric, would you -- what would you add?

They are very different as you've pointed out. But we are seeing some pressure on claims. I think you've seen that in our own results, not anywhere to near the same extent as you've seen from some writers of net advantage. But I would emphasize that with Med Supp, we have the opportunity to reprice the business annually. And so to the extent that there's pressure on loss costs, we're able to adjust -- by adjusting the price subject to regulatory approval. But typically, we get something close to what we're asking for because it's based on real experience.

And the other thing I'd say is that notwithstanding the pressure, we continue to generate returns from that business that are consistent with our target returns. And then the last thing I'd say, and again, you've seen this in the results, the new Med Supp product that we introduced, I think it's been a little over a year now, is not as profitable as the old Med Supp product that's now running off. That creates a little bit of a headwind for us in terms of year-over-year margin comparisons in that product.

Yes. Wilma, this is Gary. Thanks for the question. We were obviously very pleased with the recruiting environment and let me start with the short answer. Based on everything we're seeing; we expect that to continue. And so there's a few points I'd make. First of all, historically conventional wisdom says that when unemployment starts to rise, you see more people willing to try a career change and specifically try out a commission-only based position like this. As the labor market tightens a little bit, we're going to see that. But I think what's really happened and why we've had such performance, it's a little bit like Jim Collins analogy of the flywheel. I can't point to one or even two things. I could point to half a dozen or a dozen different things that we've done to make this a more attractive career path and to simultaneously increase both recruiting and productivity.

For us, that's the real trick. If you asked me to pick, I would actually emphasize productivity, but the trick is doing both, and that's what we're very focused on. As we've built out new products, as we've bettered our sales enablement, as we've made clear the career path for these agents to become financial advisors, as we've done a number of different things, literally dozens of small, small things, I think we've made this an increasingly attractive opportunity. And everything we're seeing in 2024 leads us to believe that we should be able to continue to see good results. Now, as the agent population gets bigger, of course, it gets harder to match this type of percentage growth rates, but we feel very good about our opportunity to continue to drive both recruiting and productivity in both divisions.