Gary Guthart
Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (ISRG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, Larry.

Yeah, we submitted for broad indications and in the IDE trial it was a broad indication trial. What that looks like in the end, we'll come down to how we answer some of the questions that come back and forth. So I'm not telling you what the end point is, but I can tell you what our starting point is. In terms of kind of breadth and depth, we think that it will allow for additional penetration into some of the categories we're in already. And maybe an analogy is you could do some general surgery with Si, the earlier system, we had clearances there, but Xi had some product improvements and some really nice forward progress that allowed us for greater penetration depth. So there's opportunity for depth. We think over time there's opportunity for additional indications. Those are unlikely to occur right out of the gate. And we think that there's some really nice indications to talk about or features to talk about in future calls.

Yeah. Hi, Travis.

I laid out in the script kind of what our design methodology was. I am dying to tell you more about da Vinci 5, but I'll wait for clearance and for the final back and forth with FDA so we can do that with a little more care. So that's kind of where we are on that set. We're excited about it. I think it is substantive and I think some of the improvements that we can bring are going to be interesting and exciting. We are submitted and we're in the back and forth with FDA. It is our hope that it is a ‘24 launch. They ultimately are the arbiters of when we get clearance. But what I'd say based on past experience with them is that we're in a constructive conversation that we understand. And if that goes the way we want, then certainly it's something we'd be excited about in ‘24. But I can't guarantee it because I don't have the clearance yet.

Yeah, I'll start with just a little bit of color on ASP and then I'll turn it over to Jamie. We won't call any ASP right now. We want to both get through the final clearances. What I will say is there are some differences relative to X, Xi that make that discussion a little detailed. And it's important for it to be detailed and clear for the customer to understand what they're going to be buying. So we're going to pause that for now. With regard to manufacturing ramp, clearly we're going to be in a phased launch. I think we'll be supply constrained in the early side of that, kind of intentionally as we work through manufacturing process, but in terms of pacing and what that might feel like, Jamie, let me turn it over to you.

Thank you.

Yeah, one of the things we talked about in the script is the increase in computational capability of the system, the re-baselining of that system. And one of the reasons for that is future programmability. Some of the things that we'll be able to bring out of the gate are pretty exciting, but it also gives us the opportunity to build on that base and sequential software releases. So it's a good pull-through, Robbie. The point you make is a good one, and we do want to pull through software capability. It will not just be software that we bring to market, but it's a starting point. Just to remind everybody back in the Xi launch period, Xi didn't have everything that we could possibly do with it at first year of launch either. It's something that as we build capability and build skill we can add to over time, and we've done that for years, we will do the same in dV 5, it is a platform upon which we can build for many years to come.

Thanks, Rick. On the SP front, we're pleased with the step forward they took in '23. It was good. We're seeing more focused efforts in our commercial team in the US, which has been good. We're excited about its entry into Japan, and we're starting to see a build of activity in Japan, too. So that's been good. We expect to see it in Europe in '24, and that's another nice step. And I think that's a broader set of clinical indications as it was in Korea and Japan. So it gives us a little more freedom to operate, which is great. In the US, we have trials that had finished accrual and have been submitted or will be submitted soon in thoracic and colorectal that will give our US customers more opportunity to use SP in a multiplatform -- multispecialty environment. So I think SP continues to be a nice build. So that looks good. And team has their marching orders and is working down that set of processes. We have a breast oncology trial that's ongoing that we're excited about also that will not make a big impact in '24, but starts to open additional opportunity for narrow access surgery thereafter. So that's kind of where we are in SP, so far, so good. I'll turn it over to Jamie and talk about Ion.

More likely to be a slight negative than a slight positive. And I think the things we've put in place for customer transparency, the ability to see it, work to mitigate the feeling of having to wait and they'll get a chance to put their hands on it and see it. But I don't see it as an accelerant.

In soft tissue surgery, I would just say, if you look at '23, the two primary growth drivers that we've called out is general surgery in the US, that grew 25% in 2023. And for OUS, beyond urology that grew 35% in '23. And at the core, we think those continue to be growth drivers for the business.

Sure. Jamie, I'll let you take the kind of characterization of where we are in the adoption curves of general surgery, hernia, benign, chole and so on.

With regard to dV 5, I won't call out what specific targeting has been. We'll talk about more about dV 5 when we get a chance to talk about clearance. We do think that it's something that can help improve outcomes in multiple places. And we look forward to talking to you about that when we have the opportunity. If you have one follow-up, Drew, I'll take the follow-up. Otherwise, we'll close the call. So Drew, you have one more?

Yeah. Thank you for the question. We think that having a portfolio of choices makes a ton of sense for hospitals. And this will be a part of that portfolio. We talked about it in the prepared script. Got to give people choice. Some of that choice will have to do with how they view their practice. Some of it may have to do with what their site of care looks like and feels like. So that gives us some optionality and gives our customers optionality. I think that's really healthy. So thank you, Drew. Appreciate the question.

That was our last question. In closing, we continue to believe there is a substantial and durable opportunity to fundamentally improve surgery and acute interventions. Our teams continue to work closely with hospitals, physicians and caregivers in pursuit of what our customers have termed the quadruple aim. Better, more predictable patient outcomes, better experiences for patients, better experiences for their care teams and ultimately, a lower total cost to treat. We believe value creation in surgery and acute care is foundationally human. It flows from respect for and understanding of patients and care teams, their needs and in their environment. At Intuitive, we envision a future of care that is less invasive and profoundly better where diseases are identified earlier and treated quickly so patients can get back to what matters most.

Thank you for your support on this extraordinary journey and we look forward to talking with you again in three months.