Gary Smith
Ciena Corporation (CIEN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Samik, if I sort of answer by sort of, what we feel is going to be strong and we have visibility to good visibility, I think is cloud, submarine, India are three large elements that I would say we feel you know very positive about both in terms of what we've got as backlog and on pipeline and activity. I think, you know, service providers generally are beginning or working through their inventory, they're all at various stages of progress to that. I think the uncertain one on precise timing is really the larger North American Tier 1 service providers. And again, you know we talk about them collectively, and they're all at different stages with different progress around the absorption of all of this, some are actually in very good shape. Our view on timing for you know the convert to a normal book-to-revenue and order flow, our assumption is that it would be in mid-year, which I think is consistent with what you've probably heard from a number of other different companies around the industry. You know there's a lot of absorption they took in 2023, there is some clean-up there we think in the first part of '24. But generally, if you look through that their underlying demand is strong, I mean capacity growth and traffic growth continues to be very robust in for the service providers. Certainly not an issue of budget frankly either, it's really just some of these larger ones just absorbing and being able to get deployments of the stuff that we've shipped to them.

Yeah, I mean, I would just comment on sort of pluggable piece, we've sort of, I guess been having this sort of conversation about over the last three or four years, it's taken a lot longer for pluggables, you know, the 400 ZR and you've still got a lot of inventory of the stuff that's already been shipped. So that's really not impacting the market right now. If I think about, you know, when pluggables will happen, and I think we're very well placed for that both with the customer relationships and with leading technology, so we see that more as a -- as we've talked about as an opportunity than a threat. Even 400 ZR will obviously be in market with WaveLogic 6 variant onto the 800 ZR as well. So we will take more than our fair share of that market we believe. You know, and I think about it in the context of this sort of 6% to 8%, Samik. I think we will continue overall to take market share in optical. I think there's no question about that. But obviously, we're getting to a point where we've got a large market share, and it's a bit of the sort of lure of large numbers, you're not going to take five percentage points each year. But we're augmenting that growth with our TAM expansion in the key areas around routing and switching, which gives us even greater confidence and diversity about our ability to grow going forward.

Thanks, Samik.

We are seeing in the cloud players, growth around there, all dimensions of the business and we have quite a broad relationship with them. So we're seeing it in sort of data center interconnect into the metro, into their long haul with things like Waveserver. We're also seeing it in submarine where they're investing significantly around the globe, and also in their country expansions, we're working closely with them in a number of markets where they don't necessarily take the fiber themselves, but they partner with the local carrier. We're seeing a lot of those opportunities, and of course we're incredibly well-placed to participate in that. I would single out places like India for that, where you know it's the fastest growing internet market in the world and you've got the cloud providers all being very aggressive in investing in there. So you think about it in overall terms for the year they're up over 50% for us in revenue. We're also seeing an improved order flow from them. And again, the point I would make is it's across multifaceted applications and product applications with the cloud players.

As we look into '24, we think that we will particularly be growing in the international space, we'll have a higher growth rate than average there. That, Americas is probably lower and the GCN will probably in between those two. That's how we think about it as we enter the year.

Thank you.

Just to be clear, Tal, we guided revenue for '24 to be in a range of 1% to 4% up.

We guided Q1 to be $980 million to $1.06 billion, that's what we said, and mid-40s gross margin in both cases.

We've been first to market with every generation of optical technology. And each generation of optical technology represents a step function down in terms of cost per unit of bandwidth. So that's clearly a great benefit for their efforts to restrain CapEx. And we'll come out with 1.6 terabits this year. So we're following that path.

And just to mention one other trend that they are really focused on is the whole concept of sustainability, meaning power. And again, each generation of WaveLogic technology provides a much lower power footprint, and we're contributing to that as well. So, you know, frankly, our development plays right into their needs, which is why we've been able to do so well in that market.

You know, I think you will see service provider, you know the mix I think will from an order point of view will skew more towards the service providers as they come back into the second half. Still expect very strong order flow from cloud. But if I look at it overall, I do think the service provider -- it will come back to a little more of the normalized balance, but I do think that cloud is now a larger part of our business sort of direct. And I think it might not continue at the levels it at out right now in absolute percentage share terms with service providers. But I think the service providers will you know come back stronger in the second half. You know so it will be blended this year is another way of saying that.

Yeah. On the question of the inventory level, really it reflects the different customers, make changes in their request to deliveries. As we move through the quarter, it's very common they do it very often. And frankly, if it goes, if our mix shifts from service providers to GCNs during the quarter that results in higher levels of fixed -- of finished goods inventory. We saw that as we came through 2023. We believed that as we move through fiscal year '24 that a lot of that movement inside of their delivery dates is going to settle down. And so, we think that our finished goods inventory in particular will come down during the year to a level that much more closely is in the level of what we've done in the past. Now I said, we're going to reduce our inventory about $250 million to $300 million a year that will be generally pro-rata across the year.

Thank you.

One of the industry analysts did come out recently with a view of a higher growth rate by, you know, 5% to 6% in terms of bandwidth demand as a result of AI.

Thank you. Appreciate it.

So we do expect an improvement in our gross margins next year.

Yeah, so, yes, it's absolutely on track. We've got orders already as we -- as we shared in some of the -- some of the prepared remarks. And we are beginning to engage with customers them coming into our lab to view our various variants of it. So you know as we turn the year here and get into, you know, our Q1 -- further into Q1, Q2, we'd expect to start to increase that engagement with customers. And so you know the release would be mid-24. And we're on track for it, absolutely.

Thanks, George.

It's a fair question, Simon. What I'd say though is, when you look at network gear, whether you're talking about optical or routing and switching, the underlying growth rates are not terribly different, you know, they're in the low to mid-single-digits. What's different for us is that with our expanded set of capabilities in routing and switching, the TAM or the available market, which is out there for us is growing. So, yes, we do expect to grow faster in routing and switching over the next year and over the next several years than we grow in our optical business. I still believe that we will be able to take some share in optical. But as Gary said earlier, we have a large share now, and the ability to continue to take share is a bit limited. We'll hold onto our share and grow it a bit, but where we expect to really show growth is routing and switching.

Yes. Yes, that is absolutely fair. So listen, we expect to grow in optical notwithstanding the sort of industry analyst view that the market is flat. We will do better than the market there is no doubt about that. But I think routing and switching, you know, we'd expect to be double-digit growth because it's also where the challenge there, as Jim said, and it's the lure of smaller numbers. I mean, we're about $0.5 billion now in that routing and switching business, it grew you know about 27% last year. And I don't think it will grow as much as that this year, but we're almost -- we've still got a lot -- a fairly low market share there.

When I think about Europe and the Huawei displacement, I sort of bifurcate the RAN piece from the sort of what I would call generally the sort of transport and routing and switching piece to it. Obviously, on the RAN, there's been a lot of geopolitical pressure on to the 5G and the rest of it and that's sort of well understood. I think on the stuff that's already in the ground there and there is a significant share that they've got on the transport and routing and switching side and even broadband side as well. That is going to take longer. It's a multi-year change out a) because of the operational challenges of moving them across. So what we're seeing most of the carriers is when they get to a certain inflection point where they are going to make decisions around their next generation stuff or investments that is when they are making the change. And we are seeing that. In fact we won recently in Scandinavia a Tier 1 player that you know exactly, exactly that shift over on the transport. So we are continuing to get more than our fair share there. I think it will be a multi-year program. So over the next two years to three years as they change out their transport piece, but it's a great opportunity for us. There's no question about that. But we're in I know everybody asked me what innings we're in, so I guess we'll use a baseball analogy for that, shall we? We're in about the third inning of that.

Thanks, Simon.

No, I was just going to, you know, reaffirm that, you know, obviously if you do the math, you're talking about accelerating growth once we get through this sort of absorption with the Tier 1s in North America this year, you know, we feel very good around the out years, not just for the reasons that Jim said. But you also got -- also got WaveLogic 6 coming along here in its various variants as well. So you know we should be firing on all cylinders here.
