Gary Burnison
Korn Ferry (KFY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

The amount of change that is happening is breathtaking. And from the days of darkness and COVID to economic changes to geopolitical changes to the fact that the U.S. labor force and other Western economies, the number of people in the workforce really hasn't changed. So there continues to be this move towards upskilling towards retaining, developing talent. And if you look at fundamentally what we are doing, we're providing solutions for individuals and organizations to be successful. So whether it's employee fit, coaching, development, methodology, compensation, and design, you name it, that's kind of where Korn Ferry is playing today.

And when you look at the results, it's absolutely in line with the very beginning of the strategy. And so you're seeing an environment where the world came to a halt, there was incredible demand on all fronts in many, many industries. And you saw the Executive Search business a huge, huge upswing. And what we're seeing here is a significant moderation of search, a decline in volume. It's interesting to note that basically where we are today in search was essentially where we were pre-pandemic.

Revenue is up a little bit more than where we were pre-pandemic, volume is a little bit down. But what you're saying is the cyclical parts of the business, the search business are seeing that drop in demand that you would expect, but RPO is less cyclical than search, and consulting, digital and interim are all less cyclical than RPO and search. So it's playing out exactly as we thought. And what I've seen over the last few months is a stabilization of search, which is good.

In May, we saw a rebound in China. And so our main new business overall was up 5%, search was down about 12%, but consulting and digital were up. And so, essentially it's playing out as we called for in the strategy, the marquee and regional accounts were almost 40% of our new business. So is the market different than it was a year ago? Yes, absolutely, it's different than a year ago. But a year ago, people were coming out of darkness and there was this huge amount of activity across industries. So it is different than a year ago. But I think I'm really proud of where the organization is and the results kind of bear out the strategic thesis that we had all along.

Well, I would expect some moderation. I mean, there's no -- look, we're not going to be immune. But again, it is a large market, a huge market. You've got people that are changing the way that you work. We saw this in -- we really -- in April, May, June of 2020, this was our conscious decision that we're going to get into this market in a big way, particularly around finance and accounting, technology, HR, supply chain that we were going to go big into it and in a very, very short amount of time. I think we've developed a very, very high-end business with an average hourly rate of $124. So I'm not going to sit here and pretend that we're immune.

I do think one of the things that is helping us is the amount of cross referrals. And so, I look over essentially an 18 month period, and what we see is almost $50 million coming from cross referrals, cross sales, whatever words you want to use, with nearly 700 deals. And so, I think that when you look at maybe some other firms that are strictly in that business, they don't have the wider platform of Korn Ferry, and we'll see if that's going to continue to be a differentiator. I personally think it will be, but I'm not going to sit here and say that we're going to be immune from what we're seeing and what others are seeing when it comes to interim services.

Well, let me -- Bob will answer that question directly, but I would just provide contacts when you look at this firm, and I've seen it go from sub-$300 million to $3 billion, that what you would say is peak-to-peak, cycle-to-cycle, trough-to-trough, we've continually gone up and to the right. That is absolute fact, and you can look at it in the data. The other thing I would point out is that we did make a conscious decision to address a large market that we think is going to be quite lucrative for shareholders and our colleagues over the next several years, and that's interim services.

So with that and an increasing focus on RPO, when you look back in the past, clearly, there is about a 200 basis point difference. And so, I think you really have to factor that in to the modeling. Before the pandemic, if I remember right, and Bob can you correct me, we were probably running 15%, 14.5%, 15.5% EBITDA margins, then we saw a huge upswing a year ago. And I would just say that whatever those models and those boundaries, I do think you have to adjust it by a couple of 100 basis points for the changing mix of business as we look forward. But Bob, what would you say on the specific operating boundaries for the firm?

Well, we've got a three-fold plan. We're going at it big time. Let me just first say that nobody knows exactly where this is going to go, so that's number one. Even the so-called leaders in the space. It has gained a lot of attention for a very, very good reason. Could it be to the knowledge worker what the industrial revolution was to manufacturing? I don't know if I would go that far. But clearly, it's an opportunity for us. And so we're really looking at it in kind of three dimensions. One is around, how we can use it offensively to drive greater impact with our clients. Two, is around our vulnerabilities. And three, is around the people that we need to partner with, the broader ecosystem to help navigate that.

But I would just say that I believe very, very strongly that in this business, and I think what we've proven over the years is that data and knowledge is everything. So we've got teams right now looking at -- are we capturing all the data we can be capturing? Are we putting it in a warehouse? Can we easily access that warehouse to provide insights to our clients?

Then secondly, our IP and our assessment, is that truly fit for purpose in this world that we're heading into in the next five years, where there's tremendous -- there's not much anticipated labor growth, there's going to be skill shortages continuing. And is our assessments and IP fit for purpose for the next five years, the next 10 years? And I really do believe that those two things, data, insight, knowledge, our assessment, and IP, we have to make sure that we're investing in it, because I think that -- well no matter where this AI conversation goes, that ultimately, I think, will be the winner.

And so clearly, we're using -- we've been using AI in part of our recruiting processes for some time now. But clearly around our learning and development business. There's an enormous opportunity there. That's an area that we're focused in on. But I just practically speaking, you make your path as you walk it. And I just think that data, our IP, our assessment, the knowledge that we have, we have to make sure that we are putting enough capital into the foundation of the firm.

When you say domestically, are you talking about domestic China or domestic United States?

Well, like one month doesn't make a trend. What we saw in May was certainly good news. When you look month sequential, so not month year-over-year. But if you just look month sequential, you take April to May, our normal seasonal pattern, we would expect new business to be down 3% to 5%. And we were up 5% on an organic basis, it would probably be in that down 3% to 5%. So right in line.

May to June, we would expect to see month sequential, not year-over-year, but month sequentially, we would expect that to be up 5%, and we haven't closed out June year. We have a number of days left, and then you've also got the 4th of July, and we're kind of in line with that kind of number. So I think it's -- I think you're right, it may be too early for green shoots, but certainly, it's more encouraging than not -- that over the last few months, we've seen a stabilization in the Executive Search business. And in North America, May was -- May new business was -- the trend was better than it was the previous month or two. So -- but again, with our consulting and digital and interim businesses, those have really held up quite well overall.

Well, I'll let -- Bob can comment. I mean I would just say that we had guided to an EBITDA margin of, I believe, 14% and I think we -- where we came out was 13% and 13.5%. So it was actually fairly close to what we had expected. I mean in any given quarter, you could have some unusual items swinging one way or the other. But I guess I wouldn't say that -- we said seven months ago that we were going to run the business at kind of 14%. So this is pretty close to that.

And again, when you see the falloff in search, then you see this mix shift that's happening within the organization. I think it was substantially in line with what we had thought like seven or eight months ago, and that we told our shareholders. But Bob, you can probably give a better view, I think, than I...

I -- we've always taken a very systematic approach to capital allocation and we would expect that to continue. And I don't, at any one given point in time. I don't really say the pipeline is big or small. I mean we're not -- that's not how we're going about it. We're going about it to say, where is the real market opportunity, where can we have greater client impact. And whatever we're looking at -- what does the neighborhood look like at 11 o'clock at night, what are your neighbors like? It's all about culture fit.

So you go through cycles, up cycles, down cycles, I don't really look at it that way. We continue to have a very systematic approach and we continue to meet with companies to get to know them. And so I don't think today is any different than it was, say, three or four months ago.

Well, there's a couple of places in the world where I've asked our team to quadruple our business. I mean I'm not going to point those out publicly. But clearly, it's not one size fits all. There's countries that are doing exceptionally well right now, and we have great businesses there, but we're just scratching the surface of what that could be. I'm sure you could maybe guess at what those are. But we've got a very aggressive plan in two or three geographies that we see huge, huge opportunity.

Look, the consulting business is a no-brainer. And we -- despite where we've -- where we are today, I continue to believe that we can use more colleagues and more resources in the consulting area. And I just -- I don't want to just say that's the favorite child, because there's a number of opportunities we could pursue. But just broad base, we've just seen some enormous wins with our consulting and digital solutions working together. I just -- that's a multi-billion dollar opportunity for us over the medium to long-term. And so that's the thing that would come screaming off the page.

And then I think the fact that we have this incredible data, and how do we go about licensing that? How do we go about using that either stand-alone or with consulting, pushing, or pulling, and really helping to solve what I think are going to continue to be organizational challenges for clients. I mean, in a time of tremendous change in a labor market that's really not moving. And I think that's opportunity for Korn Ferry.

Well, I think -- as you saw in EMEA, it's more than the surge business. It's all of the businesses are doing very, very well, and it's fairly broad-based. I mean there's a couple of areas that are really performing extraordinarily well. So it's more than search. It's in EMEA. It's across the entire platform. Industrial is -- that's important for us. It's almost 30% of the company. It's a big, big part of our portfolio.

And if you look -- either you look year-over-year, for example, and you're seeing kind of an 8% lift here. And clearly, the infrastructure act in the United States is having some impact, no doubt about it. But you see it across manufacturing, energy, engineering, and construction and even sequentially, automotive held up. So it's been fairly -- it's been fairly broad-based within industrial. I'm not going to kind of pick on one sector. But overall, that's a positive for Korn Ferry given the size of industrial relative to the other pieces of the portfolio.

Well, we're going to -- we really do believe that finance and accounting technology, supply chain, HR, those would be the areas that are the natural adjacencies for Korn Ferry and that we would tend to stay at the high end of those markets. And so that's kind of our strategic focus -- and what -- it is impressive. I mean I just -- the quality of the people that have joined, the kinds of assignments that we're doing.

And the fit within Korn Ferry, I mean to think about in a very, very short amount of time, you've seen a $50 million revenue lift in about 18 months, maybe it's a little bit longer. But 700 deals. I mean that -- well, you start to extrapolate that out and it's a real, real positive. And so, that's one of the foundations of the strategy is that, can we create more impact with clients with a broad platform that ranges from org strategy, to compensation and benefits and developing people and leaders, and when you look at the firm overall, our cross referrals are 25% to 30% of the overall firm. And you look at that and you look at the marquee and regional accounts and you think about that being 35%, 40% of the firm, and it's working, is my point.

And so, we do believe that with this high-end interim service that we have, there could be some moderation. I mean, I'm not going to -- how could we be immune, but the market potential is enormous.

Okay. Lois, thank you for moderating this. And as Bob said, we're incredibly proud of our team and we certainly appreciate you listening, and we look forward to speaking to you very, very soon. So with that, we'll sign off, and have a great day. See you. Bye-bye.
