Gary Shiffman
Sun Communities, Inc. (SUI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey John, that's a great question. This is Gary. I think that as we'll continue to share over this call and as we have been sharing with our stakeholders over the last few quarters, in this effort to get back to basics and focus on this strong growth in our core businesses and translate that directly to per share growth we're looking to simplify our business to remove complexities both from a modeling standpoint, but also from an investment standpoint so we can redirect any capital that would be required to continue to develop and invest in Campspot and other type of projects like that to the reduction of debt. So this is a decision where we can get the best of both worlds. We can continue using Campspot, which is the really best software that's out there to manage our REIT communities and monetize it and use the monetization to pay down debt.

None that we are aware of.

That is a great question and something we're very eager to share and demonstrate as we move forward in 2024. We previously and even during this call talked about some of those projects. But we are painfully aware and recognize how challenging 2023 was for all of our stakeholders. The headwinds faced by Park Holidays and the difficulties brought on by the UK note restructuring had a meaningful impact on our performance the stock and investors' perceptions of Sun. So what we can share with you the extinguishment of the UK note that included the sale of the manufacturing businesses the transfer of the land parcels on to our balance sheet allows them to move them towards Park Holidays management team where we continue to share are absolutely outstanding. So we'll be able to operate that group of properties and seek to maximize its value. So we'll look to be able to report on that as the year goes forward.

There are five properties that they'll be taking over in this process. We talked about Sandy Bay. It is income producing. There is a second one [indiscernible] has a minor amount of income coming through it now and the three other development parcels. So we're eager to get those in the hands. And Park Holidays in fact they are now overseeing it.

Park Holidays itself has performed well in a pretty challenging environment. They have been gaining market share overall and increasing their real property NOI. While we're frustrated as everyone is with the added complication of the announced non-cash goodwill impairment here at Sun the impact does not affect any of Park Holidays' historical cash flow or their operating metrics including NOI, core FFO or its future growth prospects. So we're happy to move forward on that.

We expect Park Holidays' 2023 performance to really be a baseline for future growth. And as we've reflected in guidance while somewhat flattish, we believe we will continue to see improvement with continued improvements in the macroeconomics in the UK. We've continued to talk about as we reflect towards 2024 guidance the things we're focused on.

We've announced the sale of the stake of Ingenia, the Northgate recapitalization which we just shared which really does take a lot of complexity out of the JV and the reporting and leaves us with the best communities that we think we can optimize growth. They're excellent properties. They have a great runway to be able to convert transient to annual, so should be positive as we go forward. Fernando mentioned, reducing our exposure to floating rate debt and continued reduction in transient revenue through a conversion of more stable and predictable annual RV revenue.

All these things I think position us going forward to return to the kind of year-over-year translation of core growth into meaningful FFO per share growth. So this is something we're going to have to demonstrate quarter-by-quarter. Our guidance for 2024 does have the headwinds that Fernando shared with regard to the income interest that we don't have starting out the year but it leads to solid growth and solid guidance on all our business platforms and we look to be able to update and share everybody quarter-by-quarter as we continue to make progress on these goals.

So great question, Josh. I think that in general, we have shared our intention to look at certain assets we can define them as non-core or smaller or regionally not located in areas where we have efficiencies. So we will continue on a relatively small magnitude certain dispositions. We mentioned, we have two of them out for sale that we expect to close very shortly. And the magnitude of those is something equal to or less than what we last said, I think in 2014 or 2015, a total of over or up to $300 million.

But with no certainty, there's nothing forcing us to sell those assets. And we will manage those as we find interest and determine that we can sell them on a logical and accretive basis. So with regard to those types of dispositions we're focused on that. And we shared that in the market.

With regard to the UK, I think that, we've discussed that certainly the macro headwinds have impacted home sales. And at the same time real property contribution has been growing during the current difficult financial environment in the UK and guidance reflects flat but a little bit of growth for 2024.

So our goal at this time based on market in the UK and the fact that we have really well-located properties and an excellent management team is managing through these difficult times, that we will continue to operate the platform with maximize growth and value with what we consider a great management team, and make determinations on a quarterly and annual basis, as to best decisions moving forward.

Good questions, Keegan. Obviously, as we've stated in our remarks that we continue to see strong demand for wet slip and dry storage. At over 80% of the Marina portfolio, we're experiencing continued weight lift of at least one size. So there's still continuing demand. We've had over 7% and over 11% same-property growth in 2022 and 2023. And as we've guided in 2024, we still expect continued growth. I think that we look at everything in our core businesses as a marathon.

As we've shared even with the headwinds that we had in 2023, obviously, we're all aware of how the portfolios performed. So in thinking through rental increases, expense control, CapEx investment for the long-term, our expectation is that for all of our businesses, including Marinas, we look forward to continued steady growth, the type of core growth that we've exhibited and seen throughout Sun's ownership of these platforms.

So and we feel very good going forward. And we're laser-focused on resolving the things that we want to resolve to be able to translate that growth to our stakeholders going forward.

I can say at this time, we're very comfortable with where our exposure is. I go back to the same thing. The reasons for the investment there were to gain continued exposure to manufactured housing revenue, which is highly sticky, highly valued. It had a disproportionate fair to home sale, disproportionate share of contribution from home sales. We've committed to working through that on a five to seven-year basis. We're over two years into that right now, and we're continuing to see the benefit where we reduce home sales margin, whether intentional or not, and seek to increase occupancy and contribution through real property rent and lease payments, if you will. That's all going very well.

Certainly, as we've shared, the disproportionate attention and focus in the downward guidance we experienced in 2023 are all areas that we are focused on. And as we continue to focus in 2024 to grow the company, to create value, to take on the assets that they're now operating and to create value from them, we'll make a determination. There are no determinations made at this time. But as always, all options are on the table, and we're excited for the management team to turn in the best results to take in 2024.

Fernando Castro-Caratini

And Keegan, if I can add, similar to our non-strategic asset capital recycling program here in the US, we are under those plans in the UK as well, where we can potentially monetize a few assets from the portfolio over the course of this year.

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks Eric. I think that we're very pleased with the fact that the Board has established the Capital Allocation Committee to review the company's use and investment of capital and to make recommendations to the full Board. It's a more formalized process what has always taken place at a Board level. We're pleased to have Craig Leupold serve on that Capital Allocation Committee, and we will have two independent Board members on that committee as well. And we have formulated and begun to formulate a charter for that. So we look forward to their contribution. And we think it will be a continued benefit as we move forward and strengthen the Board and the company in the future.

I'm going to suggest Fernando might have the exact number of the sale. But as we discussed, we are looking at the disposition of properties on an accretive basis. And as we are discussing with interested parties, those properties' cap rates come into play. And at an appropriate time in the future where we've completed the transactions, we'll be able to share the specifics of the cap rates with you.

John, thanks for the question. I think that when we've talked about capital recycling, it's included both the properties as well as some of the other things that we've shared with you selling our position in Ingenia the balance sheet notes, unwinding the complexity in our very large JV and other things that we continue to look at of which dispositions is just one part of. Since we've discussed that, as you referenced, we've spent a good deal of time, assessing the portfolio, determining which assets might be candidates, running all the pre-work and the preparation to be able to market some of those properties, the fruit of which is just coming to bear for the first time this week. It has been an ongoing process and we hope to be able to continue to share more on those dispositions, as we can do so. As we shared before, we don't typically announce the dispositions or capital market impacts until they're actually close. So I think that, as far as how we're viewing things, they're pretty similar to how we have in the past. Certainly, interest rates have impacted both pricing and how we look at the accretiveness of the transactions. And we feel comfortable, with what we're looking at near-term. And as we negotiate through those, we look forward to being able to share them with you. But it's just a little bit too early John, to know exactly how the market is going to price everything. But moving forward, we're -- I could say, we're within 25 to 75 basis points of the areas that we expected to be in.

Hi, Anthony it's Gary. I guess I suggest overall, that just aren't very many comps out there. Obviously, as it goes into our recognition of valuation of the Park Holidays platform, as we think about opportunities to acquire or dispose of assets, we're very, very focused on keeping a pulse in the market there. And the fact of the matter is, that while we believe firmly, Park Holidays is gaining market share from other big operators out there who are struggling both through the macroeconomics and some internal issues that are being made aware at those companies.

We grabbed that market share. We are working through creating operational value through home sales and through occupancy, and we'll have to continue to study and share with you what we're seeing with valuation in the market. But as of right now, there's just nothing to turn to.

And I'll also turn it over to the US as well. When we look at the limited amount of transactions going on in manufactured housing in particular in the US, there just isn't a lot to reference out there as indicative cap rates or indicative pricing. So, we continue to watch it very thoughtfully.

We thank everybody for participating in the conference call. And we really do look forward to sharing with you our first quarter results and the rest results as they are able to be shared throughout the year. Thank you, operator.