Gavin Hattersley
Molson Coors Beverage Company (TAP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Andrea. A couple of things I would say in response to your question. Firstly, we believe the changes in the U.S. beer industry are permanent. And we are off to a very fast start in Q1. The momentum that we saw in Q4 has continued into Q1. In the U.S. Molson Coors is leading all brewers in year-to-date dollar share growth by growing 1.5 points. We are ahead of conservation share growth. ADI continues to decline more than any other major brewer in the U.S., using about 4.5 points year-to-date.

From an industry point of view, we would expect the U.S. industry to fall back to the sort of flat to down one level, and we would expect to gain share as we continue into this year. And as you rightly point out, there are lots of drivers and multiple levers to support our top line growth algorithm. And obviously, that includes pricing, which we've said will be in the sort of historical 1% to 2% range. It is market-by-market.

We would expect to get pricing in Canada and EMEA APAC as well. It includes positive mix from our continued premiumization of our portfolio. And of course, you rightly point out the headwind of PEPs. When you put all those factors together, that gets to our guidance for this year of low single digits. Thanks, Andrea.

Thanks, Bonnie. Look, we introduced the long-term growth algorithm with EPS at our Investor Day in the fourth quarter of last year. So we wanted to make sure that our guidance that we gave now for 2024 covered those three elements of our guidance that we launched at the Investor Day and EPS was obviously one of those. The reason -- and of course, that was long-term guidance that we gave at Investor Day. And as Greg said, the reason why we are slightly less from an EPS point of view than our long-term algorithm is our tax rate, which goes up a couple of percentage points given the mix of where we make our profitability and tax rates around the world. So that's the main driver. Was there anything else that I missed anything else lately?

Share repurchases, that's right. Look, we've got an approach, Bonnie, that for our share purchase reprogram which is both sustained and opportunistic. So we've got a sustained ongoing repurchase and we've got an opportunity to repurchase. The program is $2 billion, that sort of roughly equates to $400 million over each year over the 5-year period. And we will take our cash holdings into account our capital allocation policy and do what we think is right from a shareholder point of view as we execute that share program.

Thanks, Bryan. Look, EMEA, APAC last year had a tremendous year. We grew top and bottom line double digits and I don't think we've done that for a while. In terms of the various markets in which we operate, Central and Eastern Europe, we've been very clear about that over the last six or so quarters that the consumer is more challenged in that market. We are seeing signs of lowering inflation and a lower impact for that consumer. And so our expectation is that, that is going to continue to improve as we head into 2024.

In the U.K., you are right. We've had two slower quarters from an overall industry point of view for Q3 and Q4. Q3 was largely weather-driven. Q4 was largely off-premise driven. And -- there was a fairly substantial excise increase in the off-premise of around 10% in the U.K. And of course, that probably had somewhat of a negative effect in the fourth quarter. But the U.K. consumers remained remarkably resilient. And our expectation is that will continue.

You point to our premiumization, yes. I mean, you had such a tremendous success with the launch of Madri in the U.K. Who would have thought you could launch a brand at the beginning of a pandemic in the on-premise and 3 years later, it would have the share that it has in the on and off premise and be well north of 1 million hectoliters already. And that what's even more surprising is actually the low awareness that exists through that brand. So there's a lot of runway for us to drive Madri, not only in the U.K., but we are also launching it in Bulgaria, and we are launching it in Canada as we head into this year. Thanks, Bryan.

Thanks, Rob. Look, I'll start. Greg can add some color on COGS as well. But first thing, yes, I think our supply chain team has done an amazing job over the last 3 years, reacting to, obviously, every imaginable crisis, and they've got battle hardened and did a tremendous job of reacting to this permanent industry shift that took place in April. Yes, we have had opportunities to optimize. We continue to optimize the sourcing of our beers between breweries, and we continue to do that and we'll continue to do that on an ongoing basis.

In terms of, obviously, PEPs coming out, you rightly point to the fact that, that will give us an opportunity to optimize even further. It reduces a lot of or it takes a lot of complexity out of our business, allows us to do longer runs of our own higher margin brands. As far as COGS is concerned, look, there's a lot of factors that go into COGS, not just operating leverage. One would obviously be as we drive towards our above premium goal, above premium products come at a higher cost to make. So those certainly negatively impact overall COGS. Greg, why don't you just give some color on COGS?

Thanks, Greg. And Rob, that all just sort of wraps up into our guidance for underlying profit, which is mid single digits, in line with our long-term algorithm. Thanks, Rob.

Yes, thanks. Look, I mean, maybe just a comment around the overall industry, right? As I said, despite the headlines you might read, the overall beer category grew dollar share of total alcohol beverage in 2023. I think that's important context when you consider consumer habits, which essentially underpins your question as well. We've got a lot of levers from a top line point of view. We've got pricing. We've got a positive mix from premiumization. And notwithstanding the comps which are coming in the second quarter, it is our expectation and goal that we will continue to take market share. Thanks, Filippo

Thanks, Nadine. Look, on your first question, not much surprised us in the fourth quarter. If I had to point to one thing, maybe the industry performed a little better in our U.S. market than we had originally expected it to. And so that drove our underlying profit to slightly exceed our guidance. I mean it wasn't a lot, right? I mean it was -- we were just under 37%, which in the greater scheme of things, it's not a lot of dollars when you compare it to our overall underlying profit. So more or less, things were as we expected. EMEA, APAC actually did a little better-than-we-expected. Canada did a little, tiny a little bit worse than the U.S. did better. But overall, there's nothing really I can point out that was a big oha [ph] for us.

In terms of your other questions to what gives me confidence that we can sustain the share gains that we've got in the U.S. Look, I mean, the gains we've seen in our core brands have been consistent for over 9 months. We are growing in every region, every channel and with every major customer in the United States. And at this point, we believe that the shift in the U.S. beer industry are permanent. We're off to a fast start in Q1, as I said, momentum is continuing. We are leading all brewers in year-to-date dollar share growth.

Our data shows that the majority of consumers who switched to our brands post April have stayed with us throughout 2023, and then much more loyal to [technical difficulty] brands than historically. So yes, I mean I would expect one of our competitors will almost certainly claim that anything better than minus 30% is a big win. But the reality is there's no reason to believe that these buyers are suddenly going to revert in April. We do expect strong continued growth in Q1. We expect it to continue to follow the patterns we saw last year. We saw signs of this with our momentum in Q4.

For example, Coors Light volume growth in Q4 was higher than it was in Q2. So we've got multiple sales tailwinds from a sales perspective. And let me just run a couple of those for you, Nadine, given the high interest in this particular area. We expect even more space at retail starting in Q2, and then we'll start to see the benefit from spring resets. The majority of major retailers do full reset in the spring, both nationally and from a regional point of view, and we expect to be the biggest beneficiary of these [indiscernible] gains.

We've already seen, as I said in my opening remarks, several of our chain retailers that put space for our core brands, well ahead of the 6% to 7% gains that we saw in summer and fall of 2023. And that's including some larger retailers. We expect to have much better strong -- and stronger display activity in the first half of this year. We are already seeing that with the Super Bowl.

In the latest 4 weeks of Super Bowl retail program, Molson Coors gained more dollar and volume share of displays than any other U.S. brewer. And [indiscernible], I don't know, about a 25% lift in sales when they're on display. So last year, we were a clear winner on displays, and we expect that to be the case as we start cycling in April. And then the final point because I've gone on a little here maybe is in the on-premise. It's not letting up. We were by far the largest share gainer in the channel last year. We grew 3x more share as the next major brewer, which in this instance was Constellation.

And just to put that into perspective, Coors Light and Miller Lite each grew more in dollars in the on-premise and Constellation it is a total brewer. And that's as of the latest 12-week C.J. Nielsen reads. Now let me stop there. I could go on into the marketing campaigns that we've got for [indiscernible Miller Lite but there are so many reasons to believe, Nadine, and we have strong confidence in the guidance in which we've given.

Well, look, you're right. I mean, we do have regional differences in our cost of goods sold, all driven by -- all the factors that go into cost of goods sold from cost savings programs to premiumization. Obviously, the U.S. is coming off a smaller base from a premiumization point of view than EMEA APAC is. The U.S. will be more impacted negatively by a growth in the above premium and for example, EMEA and APAC would be inflation is slightly higher in Europe at a macro level.

But as Greg rightly pointed out, our hedging program is designed specifically. It's been this way for more than 10 years to eliminate the highs and lows of our input costs. So you're probably looking for more detail than we are willing to give you. There are so many things that go into COGS bill and it all ladders up into our guidance of mid-single digits for underlying pre-tax.

Yes. From a -- from an overall portfolio outside of the U.S., Chris, Canada, we do continue to see softness in the beer industry. But while the industry is down in, frankly, all regions, we've had strong share growth in Canada. And it's being driven by the strength of our core brands and the expansion that we've made into flavor. So since last March, Coors Light has been the #1 light beer brand in the industry, Molson brand family is growing share of industry and our flavor portfolio is looking really positive when you compare it against the rest of our competitors. We are growing the business. We are the only major brewer growing share and flavor in Canada.

So whilst a little bit more cautious about the overall macro environment in Canada, our portfolio is strong and getting stronger, frankly, as we go forward. Our LatAm business, 2023 was a tough year, right? There were large macroeconomic challenges in some of our bigger markets in which we operate. We are seeing signs of improvement from that perspective. Miller High Life is performing really well in Mexico. Brazil remains a big opportunity for us. And overall, we do see some level of improvement from a macroeconomic environment in Latin America. And then finally, I covered off on Central Eastern Europe, where we are seeing some signs of slowing down inflation and consumer benefiting from that.

In the U.K., we remain cautious as we watch the impact of some of the excise tax impacts in the fourth quarter. But overall, our portfolio in the U.K. is strong. From a calling [ph] point of view, from a Coors family point of view and from a -- from Madri and some of our brands, which we talk less about, Croatia, Ožujsko reached its highest market share since we kept records. Madri is expanding outside of the U.K. So overall, from a portfolio point of view, we are feeling really good about it. Cash -- capital allocation, Greg, do you want to take that one?

Thanks, Greg

Yes, sure, Steve. Thanks for the questions. I'll take your first one. From a share buyback point of view, look, the way we are running this program is on a sustained and an opportunistic basis. So we obviously do have forecast of what we will do for 2024 in our guidance assumptions. We are not going to get into that level of detail. I don't think legally, I'm allowed to do that. But you can assume that we've got a $2 billion share buyback program and that implies roughly $400 million in a year, and we will execute that on a sustained and opportunistic basis as we go forward.

As far as Blue Moon is concerned, yes, I mean, we had a challenging year with Blue Moon in 2023. It hasn't been immune from the challenges that exist in the craft beer market as a whole. On the positive side, we are seeing some signs of improvement in the on-premise, where Blue Moon is actually growing share now based on the last 4-week Nielsen CGA data. And obviously, we are not satisfied with the brand's performance. We've got big plans to turn it around in 2024, Steve. We've got redesigned packaging that hit shelves in March. And it's going to unite the whole Blue Moon family, which was not the case before where each of the Premium brands almost felt like a different brand in of itself, and that's going to be is rectified the right word in the new packaging, which we are launching in March.

We've got a new campaign, which is also going to launch in March. We've got strong media pressure with TV and digital and retail. And then to round it out from a Blue Moon point of view, we've got two innovations, which we believe are going to bring more drinkers to the brand in 2024, provide a halo effect to Blue Moon itself. And one is the repositioned Blue Moon Light, which is already the #1 light craft beer. It previously was -- went under the name Blue Moon Light Sky. And the other is Blue Moon Non-Alcoholic. It's obviously very early days for Blue Moon Non-Alcoholic, but it's already jumped to the #3 craft in a franchise by volume in the last 4 weeks, which is how long it's been in the market. So the feedback from both retailers and consumers has been overwhelmingly positive. So overall, we have high hopes for overall Blue Moon family of brands in 2024. Greg, I might have missed the part of Steve's question that was [indiscernible].

Interest expense, yes. I can handle it.

Thanks, Eric. Look, I mean, I'll say again, despite the headlines, you might read, the overall beer category grew dollar share of total alcohol beverage in 2023, and that's unlike wine and full [indiscernible] spirit which declined. If you go back and look at what happened in 2023, though, in the first quarter, that was a tough quarter for the industry, and it was largely driven by really, really bad weather on the West Coast primarily.

After that, the U.S. beer industry volume trends improved during 2023 as we move through the year and particularly in Q4. So our expectation, as you said, is the category is going to return to its more historical levels of flat to slightly up on a value basis. And it will probably fall slightly on a volume basis. And our expectation is that we will continue to grow share in that environment, and that's what's embedded in our guidance for 2024.

Yes, thanks, Look, I mean, obviously, from an overall industry point of view, beer has taken higher pricing over the years than our other competitors in the alcohol space, one and actually not as much in line, but more in spirits. Our view is that pricing for this year will fall into that 1% to 2% range. I think we've been fairly consistent about our expectation from that perspective for quite some time. The U.S. beer industry did sequentially improve, as I said, in 2023, and sometimes there is a difference between timing of shipments and brand sales to retailers, which can impact that sometimes.

Thanks, Robert. From a cannabis point of view, I think it's fair to say that the cannabis beverage market hasn't grown anywhere like what the industry's initial expectations were. And that led to us getting out of our [technical difficulty] Not the average. I meant, the smoking cannabis.

Yes. Well, we operate in the beverage market, and it certainly hasn't -- it hasn't performed as one would expect for cannabis beverages to operate. As far as your question as to whether it's impacted, we have not seen in the more developed cannabis markets like Canada, much have an impact on beverage alcohol. We have done work on a state-by-state basis. I would say to you that Colorado is one of our best-performing states over the last few years, and that I think was one of the early leaders from a cannabis point of view. So I think overarching, we have not seen cannabis negatively impact our alcohol beverage consumption in any meaningful way.

Yes, thanks, Brett. Look, I think the biggest driver of negative draft performance is actually craft and the number of craft brands, which might be being discontinued in the on-premise. We are back to very close to pre-covid levels from an on-premise point of view in most of our major markets, some slightly ahead, some slightly behind, but we are kind of back to where we were. And as I said, we are by far the biggest share gainer in the channel last year, we grew 3x faster than in the next major brewer -- it's not just Premium Lights of the growing share. It's brands like Blue Moon and Coors Banquet and Miller High Life for growing share as well. So our portfolio is strong and healthy in the on-premise. And I think some of the weakness you're seeing is coming from the proliferation of craft brands. Thanks, Brett.

Thanks, Brett.

This concludes today's Q&A session. So I hand the call back to Traci for any closing remarks.
