Gene Hall
Gartner, Inc. (IT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Jeff, it's Gene. So, one - the biggest issue we have is in the small tech vendors and a lot of the small tech vendors are in markets that have changed and they have difficulty getting funding now. And for those vendors, if they signed a 2 or 3 or multiyear a year or two ago, when that comes up for renewal, they don't have any funding. In fact, in many cases, they're out of business.

And so, what's happening there is that that's our biggest drag in the tech sector in terms of retention. The larger companies, as you've seen, are still laying off tens of thousands of people. And so they haven't finished restructuring. As we mentioned, overall new business is up in the tech sector, mid-single digits. And so, we're thinking that's a leading indicator that retention will follow once we work our way through these - particularly these companies that have gone out of business since they signed the agreement and today. And by the way, that's a very still a very robust business. It's just a different side of companies now that are getting funding, Think AI.

So Toni, we look at it as there's a very enormous market opportunity. We intend to capture that market opportunity over the next many years. Part of our core strategy to protect that opportunity is growing our headcount to capture it. But headcount growth is going to be faster or slower depending on the actual kind of selling capacity of the team we have. And right now, we believe we have a lot of selling capacity embedded actually in the capacity we have today. Over time, though, that's going to grow as we grow our business.

Again, if you look at the larger companies in the market, renewals are going kind of normally - it's a little slower than usual because, again, they're laying off tens of thousands of people. We expect that will change. There's plenty of demand. Again, we expect global IT spending issue to grow by 7% to almost $5 trillion. So there's plenty of demand there. We expect over time that will normalize.

And so the real issue on retention is these very small tech vendors which are, over time, a great market for us, but there's a shift going on now from what used to get funding through now. What does get funding is, as I mentioned, there's a real focus on AI. And so those companies that are in less popular segments for funding these days can't get funding and if they haven't as successful commercially, they either get acquired or go out of business, in which case our retention affects our retention.

So our long-term view on this segment of the business is unchanged. We believe it can grow in line with our medium-term objectives. We still believe that we are going to see reacceleration of this business over time. Whether it's 9 to 15 months or 12 to 18 or 24, it will be in that range that we actually see that reacceleration.

But we - the market here is still really strong. Our offerings still drive really huge value for our clients in this segment. And over the medium term, there's no reason why this can't get back to 12% to 16% growth, consistent with our medium-term objective for the strong [ph] business.

Yes, that is the correct math, Seth. You got it.

Yes. So first I'd say is we have a strong value proposition. And so when clients see the value they get from our offerings, they want to buy it. So that's fundamentally what's driving demand. And on top of that, we're always focused on things that impact sales productivity. And there's things that - and it's things like the tools that we give them, the process we have. And then as Craig mentioned in his remarks, tenure can affect you as well, we're having modest improvements in tenure as well. And so - but the fundamental thing that's driving it is really intrinsic demand for clients because they have the need for our services to get a lot of value out of them.

I'd say the sort of selling environment modestly improved throughout 2023.

Yes. Good morning, Andrew. I think the way to think about the CV and the revenue, and obviously, our revenue guide for the research segment and the subscription revenue piece. The revenue is always going to lag the contract value recovery. And on top of that, as you know, first half changes to NCVI are going to have a bigger impact on the 2024 revenue runout than big step-ups in Q3 or Q4, which are great and drive great cash flow and will drive future revenue but have minimal impacts on 2024 revenue.

So we're not guiding to a revenue – our CV number for the year nor are we pointing to specifically where the bottom is, but we have baked into our outlook, a bottoming of that CV and a reacceleration of that CV over the course of - over the course of 2024.

Good morning, Brendan. I mean, the biggest thing impacting contract value and contract value growth right now is the tech vendor part of the business. And so as we mentioned, the enterprise function leader part of our business grew at double-digit growth rates in the fourth quarter and actually has been a consistent double-digit grower through the course of 2023.

And so if you look at that 7.7% overall contract value growth, the reality is the enterprise function leader portion of the business, which is more than 75% of total CV is growing at double-digit growth rates. And the tech vendor portion of the business, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, was essentially flat for the year.

And so as we start to see a reacceleration of the tech vendor business, which again is a little less than 25% of total CV. That obviously has an impact on the overall CV growth. The other piece that I think is obviously super important is we caught up on our hiring quite a bit over the course of 2022. And so what that meant is over the course of 2023, we had a lot of people very early in their Gartner sales careers. And as you know, as people come up with tenure curve, their productivity increases.

And so we feel confident that we've got enough capacity from a selling perspective heading into 2024, given the combination of tech sector rebound and probably more importantly, our salespeople coming up the tenure curve, that should provide the right amount of fuel, if you will, to drive contract value growth in 2024, and we're growing our GTS/GBS headcount mid to high single digits during 2024. And that's really about accelerating and sustaining that growth as we roll into 2025 and 2026.

Yes. I mean it's still 12.9% or 13% year-over-year growth on a bigger base. And so getting bigger and bigger and sustaining growth within our medium-term objective for the segment. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, supply chain, legal, and HR are the three fastest-growing pieces of the segment. But obviously, all pieces have to be growing nicely for us to register a 13% year-over-year CV growth.

Yes. Good morning, Josh. Thanks for the question. So we're always looking at the skew of contract end dates and contract value associated with that. And as we've talked about in the past, generally speaking, we're pretty evenly skewed across the year. This year, we actually have a little bit of a bubble and not a huge one, but just a little bit more than average in - with our tech vendor clients in the first quarter.

And so you may have heard us use the word prudent several times during our prepared remarks. We just want to make sure that our guidance reflects our most recent performance and what we know about the next couple of quarters coming up. And so we've taken a prudent view on our first half NCVI to take that into account. That said, again, I'll reiterate, we do expect CV growth overall to bottom during 2024 and begin to reaccelerate with - even with that first quarter focus on tech vendor renewals.

And just to add a little bit..

When you're selling into a company that is actively making layoffs, the attention of people's focus on who they're going to lay off or whether, in fact, they're going to get laid off. And so it takes a little while - that's a much tougher - that's kind of the toughest selling environment. They'll get through that, and it will return to normal. That's the larger end. And then on the small end, Craig described very well.

So our perspective is there's nothing structural about it. What happened was during the pandemic, there was a pull forward of tech spending. In fact, many of the tech companies, probably most of them assume that was going to last forever, turned out it was just a pull forward. Now they're just adjusting to getting back to normal. And it's as simple as that. So unless pandemics become cyclical, I think we're in pretty good shape.

Hey. Good morning, Jeff. Thanks for the quick question. On the pricing side, we're a little over 4%. We did our price increase in November of this year, which is when we typically do it. A little bit lower than what we did in '21 and '22, largely because we've seen inflation come down a little bit, most importantly, wage inflation come down a little bit. And so we're in that around 4%, a little bit more than 4%.

I think clients, by and large, are not pushing back on it. Again, remember, the average spend per client is order of magnitude, $250,000. So the difference between a 3% or 4% increase is pretty de minimis. And again, and we're very focused on making sure that our products and services have incremental value each and every year.

And we're continuing to sell with our upfront invoicing and a real focus on that. We're continuing to sell more and more multiyear contracts with our focus on that. And so I'd say, yes, the environment has been a little tougher, but we've been managing to stick to our guns on the things that we know drive huge economic value for the business, which is sticking to our pricing guns, not discounting, selling multiyear contracts and making sure we get the invoicing done upfront. And I think our teams have done a phenomenal job of sticking to our coordinating there.

So here are the takeaways for today's call. Gartner drove another strong performance in Q4. We deliver incredible value, whether our clients are struggling, thriving or anywhere in between. We're exceptionally agile and continuously adapt to the changing world, and we know the right things to do to be successful in any environment. Looking ahead, we're well positioned to continue our sustained record of success far into the future. Our client value proposition and addressable market opportunity will allow us to drive long-term sustained double-digit revenue growth. We expect margins will expand modestly over time, and we generate significant free cash flow well in excess of net income. As we invest for future growth, we'll return significant levels of excess capital to our shareholders. This reduces shares outstanding and increases returns over time. Thanks for joining us today, and we look forward to updating you again next quarter.