George Chappelle
Americold Realty Trust, Inc. (COLD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks for the question, Nick. I would say no, there's no variation in terms of where the facilities are in the supply chain. As you know, the supply chain works pretty much in unison. But I would say on throughput, we still expect a very weak first half of the year and a much stronger second half of the year.

You're right, at the midpoint, where we're guiding at this point, down 200 basis points year-over-year at the midpoint. But we do think throughput is going to be a real challenge in the first half and getting all the way back in the second half is probably a pretty long put, to be honest. I think we get most of the way back, at least on what we know today, and that's where the guy landed.

Well, occupancy, as you know, we set a record year-over-year at over 84%, up 400 basis points from our previous high. We're clearly stealing market share across the network. I mean the frozen food industry isn't growing at that rate. So we're still in a lot of market share over the last four quarters with four record occupancies. And we're guiding to just 50 bps down at the midpoint from a record occupancy.

So we'll have our second best record occupancy, I guess with this guy. So we don't have occupancy concerns at all. And we do believe that when throughput comes back, we'll see a lot of demand for increased bills. We just announced an expansion in Pennsylvania, as you know. We have our CPKC-build for us kicking off and DP World opportunities across the world. So we're very bullish on our development opportunities. We're very bullish on our occupancy throughputs the weakness, it has been. But we think second half of the year, we finally make some progress coming back.

No. No, that's not the right way to think about it, Mike. For instance, the CPKC development is on balance sheet. The JVs are only right now with a couple of DP World developments. One JV we started in Dubai. The second goes into our Dubai build. But you shouldn't even think of the DP World build is all JVs. So DP World and CPKC opportunities, you should think of as just developments through another strategic partnership, just like a customer build or an expansion.

You know we announced some expansion, customer-dedicated builds there are a lot in the pipeline. Rob just quantified the pipeline and in there our customer-dedicated bills. I don't think many customers are really going hard on bills at the moment with throughput where it is and a consumer that lacks the disposable income they once had. So I would expect customer build development is probably not in the first half of the year, but they're certainly still in the pipeline. And when the economy and the consumer gets a little more healthy, we expect those to roll in right along our DP World and CPKC developments and expansions we still have underwriter writing.

I think that the CPKC projects should follow a similar time line to Kansas City because they're all going to fall into a certain category of very high churn, almost cross-docking type operations where you're taking truckloads of product and containers and reloading and restaging onto rail and vice versa on the way back from Mexico.

So I would expect the facilities in the CPKC environment to all match a certain profile and match the CPKC stabilization dates fairly close. It's not -- they're not going to be identical, but it's going to be very similar. They'll have almost nothing in common with the DP World initiatives at a different supply chain solution driven by a different supply chain process overseas versus over rail. But they, in turn, will look very similar because they're satisfying a different need. So I'd say, within each partner, they'll look very similar, but there aren't various similarities to -- amongst partners, if that makes sense.

Well, I would say right now, production volumes are at very low levels. I mean we have the weakest time of the year, which is the first quarter with a very weak consumer. So I would say production volumes are very low. We have said that in the second half of the year, we expect a pickup in consumer demand and a corresponding pickup in manufacturers producing and that's the way we laid out our guidance.

What I will say is coming out of CAGNY this week, which is where a lot of major food producers have their first annual investor conference. There was a sentiment pretty much across the board that manufacturers thought the second quarter could be a little better than we see it. That's relatively new news. We think if that were to occur, that helps us a lot and would be incremental to what we're looking at today because, again, we're skewed more towards the second half of the year.

So that's relatively new news just this week got a CAGNY, but I was very pleasantly surprised to read those comments coming out of CAGNY and see that there is some kind of consensus around maybe a better second quarter than we were planning on. So that's probably the bright spot in all of this, but again, that's coming out of CAGNY this week. So it will be interesting to see how things shape up in the coming weeks.

Yes. No, good question, Samir. I would say the way it materialized, and I think I know where you're going in terms of the L.A. REIT Conference that we attended. I personally wasn't there, but obviously, I understand the messaging. So when we get into the fourth quarter, October and the first part of November looked really good. I mean it looked really good. And even going into Thanksgiving, they've looked reasonably good.

And then what we saw in the network was going into December, it was very clear to us that manufacturers were geared up to produce pretty much what they could sell in 2023. And once they cross that boundary, which would typically be somewhere in around middle of December, they shut it down really hard because there was no motivation, I believe, on their part to produce anything that was just going to go into inventory. That would have much rather had a production volume this year than last year.

So I think that the earlier -- in the quarter, all of October, probably happened November was consistent with exactly what you just said and what we saw. And that what really surprised us was a pretty hard shutdown in the second half of December, and that took the numbers a little soft. I will say, as we said in the script, on a year-over-year basis, comparison-wise, sequentially improved 140 bps. So there was improvement in the quarter. It wasn't sequential because of the last month. But on a year-over-year basis, Q4 to Q3, the improvement was there. So not as much as we had hoped and not as much as we saw in the first half of the quarter, but it did materialize if you look at it year-over-year.

I just think that, look, we had a -- we blew away the record, right, of our economic occupancy, really 400 basis points. What we want to see is throughput pick up, and we want to see turns pick up, and we want to see all the [indiscernible] bonds pick up. I mean, that's what we're looking for. Occupancy, I think we're at levels where we're not going to see huge growth. And quite frankly, keeping within 50 points of the 50 basis points of the record we just said, I think it's quite an accomplishment.

So, the secret now is to get the throughput going. I don't think there's any motivation for manufacturers to build more inventory at this point. It would appear to us, they have plenty. And certainly, retailers are no longer saying more inventory is needed in the system. What we need, I believe, now is higher throughput and the occupancy will take care of itself. The fact that we're not declining, I think, is a testament to our assets and the market share with stolen from competitors. Our goal is to keep it this year is really, I think, what we need to do in occupancy and then get the throughput going.

Yes, I'll hand it to Rob for a little more detail, Mike. But I think you just stated what I wanted to clarify. It's not the non-same-store pool. It's two properties in the non-same-store pool, which are very complex. I think I mentioned 75 million cases a year distributed when they're fully ramped up in the retail space where it's palleted and 100% cases out, et cetera. So Rob will go into more detail, but I just want to clarify two properties in the non-same-store pool. The rest of the non-same-store is performing very, very well.

It's a combination of both, Mike. I mean, we have the two we announced the Dubai build, which is a JV with our partner, RSA and obviously, with CPKC, Kansas City build. If you look at the pipeline we're working on right now, that would get you close to, let's say, the $300 million, $400 million, $500 million range and we're scratching the service on the pipeline. We don't have the pipeline fully built out for either partners.

So when we say $500 million to $1 billion, we're probably halfway there already just based on what we're researching and underwriting and building the business cases for. And the next tranche to get to $1 billion are opportunities that we haven't even started to uncover yet. So it's a really great relationship with both partners. They have some very good market intelligence on where we should hunt. And so far, it's been very accurate. As you can see from two builds in a relatively short time with two strategic partners. So we're very excited about it. We feel really good about the pipeline we quoted, and we're seeing really quality opportunities. So that's how we get to the $500 million to $1 billion.

I would say, Bill, is a surprising I'm old enough to have been through this maybe once or twice before. And I would say no, I've seen volume decline in the face of a significant macroeconomic issue before. The consumers are sensitive to spending. It takes pretty big swings in the economy for it to show itself as wide as it has in this environment. But if you look at interest rates and inflation alone, I think we can all understand how disposable income is at the levels it is, and people have to make choices. And part of that is spending less at the grocery store on discretionary spends, which aren't happening.

So that's consistent with what all our manufacturing partners are seeing consistent with what our retail partners are seeing. We've called out the second half of the year. As I've said before, it's not typical for the first half of the year for the food business to see a big influx of demand. There are very few holidays to center that around. And that's why the second half of the year is typically a better time of the year to see a recovery.

But again, I'll mention that CAGNY this year was held. It's the biggest food investor conference of the season. And several large manufacturers were more bullish on the second quarter than the second half. So there's a little bit of hope there and that we see an earlier recovery than we've built into our guidance, but that's very new news, and it remains to be clean how it plays out.

No, it wasn't different than I've seen before. I think it did stimulate demand, quite frankly. If you look at year-over-year, we were down 900 bps in the third quarter year-over-year, down 760 bps in the fourth quarter, so an improvement of 140 bps. I think without the promotional spending that every large manufacturer called out, by the way, in their releases because it was not an insignificant amount of spending. No, I think it did what it was supposed to do, and I think it would have been worse than I just described had they not done it.

I'm basing it on a couple of things, Craig. One is the sentiment of our larger customers, both retail and manufacturing. And two is the economic environment, hopefully improving in the second half with interest rate reductions planned, at least at one time, a little more bullish, I get that, but still planned for the second half of the year that would free up disposable income for consumers. Generally, that builds consumer confidence, and that generally builds throughput increases in our customers.

So it's based on the economic news of interest rate declines, which, again, may be a little less bullish than it once was, but still people are saying in the second half of the year, it will come. And it also comes from coming into the part of the year when you should see natural growth with some of grilling season and then the holiday season. So it's based on a number of factors in our largest partners and the economic news, we still believe will happen.

Yes, I'll hand this one to Jay. Go ahead, Jay.

Yes. I would tell you, Ki Bin, that in the first quarter, particularly, but the first half of the year, you should always see a gap between economic occupancy and physical occupancy because almost by definition, when you go to a fixed commitment contract with us, you're reserving space for the second half of the year. I mean, with most of our customers, that's true. There may be some that aren't seasonal as others, but for most of our customers, they would be paying the space in the first quarter and then sometimes the first half of the year that they intend to use in the second half of the year.

So I'll turn it over to Rob for a little more detail, but it's not unusual and you should not expect really for economic occupancy and physical to be very close in the first quarter.

Not at all. I mean right now, I think, as Jay mentioned, we're very happy with the European business. We actually grew NOI in our European business last year, 30%. We plan on growing another 20% this year to make a further point on the business, we ended the year this year on an NOI basis. I think it was close to $10 million higher than when we bought the company. I mean, so we've grown the business pretty significantly since we bought it. I mean, the impairment is a calculation that Jay explained, but we're very happy with the business. We're growing NOI year-over-year, which you'll see in the results pretty significantly. It's generating more profit, significantly more profit than when we bought it. And we're on a very nice glide path in Europe, very bullish on it.

I can't take you all the way back to the beginning, but I can tell you that the two pieces we called out this year, I think we're very transparent on for a number of quarters. I mean we talked about cybersecurity investment back in the second quarter of last year, and we talked about that going into SG&A. And we've talked about our software being cloud-based, which from an accounting standpoint means that the expense of that goes into SG&A and out of CapEx or OpEx. So I just -- I don't have the data in front of me to go all the way back as far as we'd like. But I can tell you that recent increases are exactly around the two things we've highlighted for a couple of quarters now.

I would say that certainly not 1Q, we don't expect. We're not modeling an improvement. 2Q, we're modeling the slightest of improvements, mostly because we do see the Memorial Day and then going to the summer should provide a natural lift. Now that could be better for the reason I mentioned earlier around CAGNY and a lot of the manufacturers there large manufacturers being more bullish on the second quarter throughput than I just described, but that's where our guide is. And then the second half of the year, is where all the growth is.

So that's -- which gets us to our mid of down 200 bps. So again, it's really a second half recovery in our guide. And if the CAGNY recent news is real, that would be incremental to the guide because we do not have a lot of improvement in the second quarter, very little.

No, no. We've said we can get to the low 90s and we can. It's simply that setting the record we have, which is -- again, I've mentioned it a couple of times, which is really stealing share. I mean the frozen food industry did not grow 400 bps in the second half of last year. So when you consider it that way, it has nothing to do with our ability to get to the low 90s.

We know we can do that. We just don't know how much further we can go in this environment, setting the record we set and doing it the way we did. We're going to attempt to keep growing it. There's no question. But I think after the 400 bps improvement at any time in our history, we're just wondering how far we can go in the short term. That's all.