Gerry Smith
The ODP Corporation (ODP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Jeff.

Jeff, I'll take the start of that and a more strategic piece and then I'll -- Anthony will chime in as well. So a great question.

From a Project Core perspective, I want to remind our investor base, this is the third time we've done this. We do it well before we need to do it. We've been proactive and got ahead of the curve every single time. And so -- and the $50 million to $60 million that we're talking about, that's the committed target. The other two times we committed, we actually overachieved it pretty dramatically. And I will just tell you from our culture, our low-cost model, operating excellence, our backgrounds, both by Anthony and other leadership.

We come from industries that you drive cost on a consistent basis. And we're going to push real hard from an overall perspective to overachieve that. And so I'm not going to give you either any of the people on the call a committed number. The number run rate-wise, we're committing is $50 million to $60 million. But we think that there's a lot of opportunity. That's going to be across all aspects of the business. So we're optimized, whether it's COGS, whether it's headcount, whether it's business transformation or stop doing stuff, we shouldn't be doing from a process perspective.

We're looking at every single aspect of the business again. I think the four business unit structure after having a year of running, we've learned a lot. But as I came back and had a chance to look at it and spoke with Anthony, spoke with Chairman, Joe and the Board and the leadership team, we've all assessed. We think there's a significant opportunity to go get ourselves in even a better cost position is the way I like to position it.

And then we're going to use that to drive free cash flow, drive share buyback as well as and continue to make sure we're a low-cost model wins. I always say that. I think that's important. And from -- I'll let Anthony answer share buyback. I will say from a Varis perspective, we started the review process with the Board in Q4. We will have a full disclosure. We're in the middle of that. So we're not going to give a lot of details right now. But Varis is part of the cost Project Core cost reduction process. I want to make that super clear, as well as every other part of the company. But we'll have a full disclosure on May 8 from where we landed from Varis and the plan going forward.

I'm going to flip it over to Anthony from specifics of the share buyback and buckets, et cetera. But Jeff, great to be back. Look forward to spending some time with you.

Jeff, we still believe with your target, we think we're undervalued. So we think we're undervalued right now, we're going to continue to buy shares back and love your target.

Right.

Yes. And Michael, I'll talk about the process we went through, and then I'll let Anthony dive into specifics, but -- what we did is our number one job as a leadership team and as a Board is to enhance shareholder value. So we're always looking at ways to do that, whether that's share buyback, whether that's growth, whether that's separation. And we will evaluate that. And so responding to -- from an investor feedback perspective, we went out and actually hired a top three consulting firm in the world.

And I'll use actually the team that did the separation work before, which gives us a lot of credibility and a lot of experience and background as well as one of the top investment banks in the world. And they both came back with the answer of no separation doesn't make sense for value wise at this time because of fact of dis-synergies across the business and a number of other onetime costs of going off and doing that.

I'll let Anthony get into a lot of detail, but it was pretty clear and both separate studies were done both came to the same conclusion. And again, I think it's a good testimony to our Board of governance going through that process and really using quality people to do it and coming up with an answer of what's the best way to maximize shareholder value. The answer as of today is keep it together, drive the four business unit strategy and continue to low-cost model, buy back shares, drive cash flow, drive EBITDA. Anthony?

And we always have the lens of shareholder value in every single opportunity or transaction that we look at across the business. What's the -- what's the best way to maximize shareholder value.

Yes, Mike, I'll take the first part of that. I mean ODP Business Solutions has one of the strongest backlog we've had in the history of ODP business solutions. So as that backlog starts to convert, we view that as more of a second half type of opportunity as that starts Dave's business. They're doing a great job of getting out there from a 98% win rate and a ton of net new business, which we know is share taking. It does take time for those larger accounts to transition. As those start to rack in, in Q1 and Q2, we see some strength there. And the technology refresh we're talking about is from a PC perspective. If you look at the number of the PC manufacturers, I also said on an external Board that's a semiconductor Board that everyone is looking at back half of 2024 from a recovery perspective, that might not happen, but the reality is that's where a lot of data from a tech space perspective. So big windows refresh come in, we think we can take advantage of that, both from a consumer as well as Office Depot ODP business solutions perspective.

So strong backlog, strong renewal auto net new business from ODP business solution plus the refresh in tech are the reasons why we think we're going to change that direction.

Yes. I'm smiling at that one because everyone here knows that I always say the low-cost model wins. It's a number of areas you always look at. I mean, there's COGS opportunities across the business. I've ran large procurement organizations for many years of my life. You always go out learn from Michael [indiscernible], I mean I would always ask, okay, great, you've got the savings. What are you going to get tomorrow? So the reality is every day, we're going to attack COGS this year as well as our indirect cost.

We're going to look at obviously implementing AI and some of the productivity across different parts of the organization. And we're going to look at old structure. So every single organization is going to get looked at. But I want to remind everyone on the call, over the last 7 years, we've taken out not counting store closures. I'm looking to add them over $600 million to $700 million of operating cost, SG&A, not counting store closures. That's a separate bucket.

Look at our EBITDA today, that says we've done a very good job of finding costs. But guys, I've done this for 25, 30 years in tech hardware. You had to do it every single year. Anthony did it for is a little bit younger than me, 20 years in a low margin, high value business as well. We both know how to do this, and you're always looking at ways to find how do you run the business better, how do you run a business more efficiently how do you automate how do you transform? How do you take unnecessary steps out of the business? We assessed it, we think there's opportunity, and we're going to go get it, and we're going to go or achieve that, and it's going to position us to be in a better low-cost position than we are today, just as we've done in the past.

Well, I think it's -- I think the team has worked hard. They've built a good platform. It's just -- it's taken longer than we expected from a revenue ramp perspective. They had some good last four or five months, month-over-month, has really good growth. But that being said, it's not at the pace that we expected, and we're doing a strategic review of the business. We'll have a full readout come May 8 of the future direction of the business.

No, we're looking at all the alternatives for the Varis business. Not just cost optimization, all alternatives for the Varis business. p.

I'll start and I'll let Anthony give the detail. I mean first -- it's the first year of that business. I want to thank and Gannfors, and his entire team for standing that business up. We're super happy with the progress. I mean, 120% external EBITDA growth for the business is outstanding. It's still small. But we have a new -- Craig Lis joined us externally, we're excited with Craig's background and experience. We're super bullish across a number of areas, whether it's backhaul, whether it's traditional 3PL services.

We now have licensing to ship from a from our global sourcing office to the U.S. from a license perspective. So all aspects of the supply chain, we can go off and monetize. And so there's numbers of areas and as we use our warehouse management system and update systems, our ability to respective markets can come online with even more capabilities. So all the additional factors of services across 3PL we can over the next couple of years, we're turning on.

So the potential is very high. John won a ton of logos this year of a number of different manufacturers as well as customers, and we're turning on. And we'll have a Veyer day, probably Investor Day later in the year, and we'll go through a lot of detail on that. But I am super excited with that business and the opportunity to be within the confines of our capital plan, that is very important. I want to everyone to hear that. All the Veyer expansions is already within the confines of our capital plan. There's no incremental investment here. But we see that over the next three or four years being a big contributor to the value of the company. Anthony?

Is basically flat. If we take the 53rd week right? Approximately A little bit below flat, but that's right.

All right. Well, thank you, team. Thank you investors for calling in. We want to thank everyone for joining the call. We're excited with our -- again, thank you from our team and our delivery of our results in 2023.

We're excited to continue to get ourselves and execute the low-cost model with Project Core, and we're excited with our $1 billion our new share buyback position because we believe our low-cost model as well as our capital allocation plan is the key to maximizing shareholder value, and we'll continue to find ways to grow our business as well. So thank you, and everyone, have a great day.