Glenn Williams
Primerica, Inc. (PRI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mark.

Mark, I would add to that. We met some of that against the registration fees and so forth. So our convention is designed to cost us after registration fees about the same as one of our leadership events or incentive trips as we call them, so that's why we do two incentives in one year and then we'll do a convention in one incentive the next year. So the convention is designed to roughly equate to the trip that we don't do in a convention year.

Mark, you're coming through a little garble. Would you mind asking that one more time? I'm sorry.

Thanks, Mark.

Hey, good morning, Ryan.

Yes, Ryan, I'll take that one, because we have monitored those redemption rates as we come through the pandemic. And you're right, they varied from a fairly stable historical trend over the years. Sometimes during the pandemic, people hold their money a little closer, redemption rates went down and then when money has gotten tight, redemption rates have gone up. However, if we try to sort through the pandemic and get all of that unusual noise out of it, what we're seeing right now are redemption rates that are pretty similar to pre-pandemic rates. They might be just a little bit higher, but certainly within our normal range of fluctuations prior to the pandemic.

So you're right, there are probably people that are drawing down on their accounts a little bit more because of the cost of living, but it's still within the range that we would call normal to pre-pandemic levels. It hasn't exceeded that range yet.

Sure. Thank you.

Good morning, Wilma.

Certainly, that's a great question and get that on every convention is how does the event that takes place almost right in the middle of the year impact the entire year. And as I said in my remarks, we work hard to try to get benefit from the event for the entire year. And right now, we're working and seeing results from people striving to accomplish great things by the event and be recognized for it there. And then, of course, post event, we want to use the momentum that's created by the event and stretch it as long as we can. So that's the theory is to try to level it out throughout the year.

The reality is there's so much excitement that's created. And generally, we have some incentives that we launch at the convention that do create a spike in activity around the event itself as hard as we work to try to make it -- to level it out over the full year. So I would expect right now that you would see kind of reasonable growth running up to the event and in the months, maybe September, October and beyond after the event, in the month of the event in July and in August as we have some short-term incentives and the excitement immediately coming out of event, you'll probably see a spike in recruiting.

And then, of course, the pull-through of that, of the licensing and impact on the sales force is much long after that, because it is a fairly long process in some states and provinces to get recruits licensed. So I would say that we would expect an impact throughout the year, but you will see the recruiting activity around the event. And then you would see licensing. And theoretically, at least, of course, if productivity stays the same, you would see some sales impact in the last half of the year and working into 2025. Was that helpful?

Certainly.

Hey, good morning, Ian.

Sure. I'll take a shot at both of those and see if it's helpful. We had a change in our contracts with our product providers that provided a little more clarity and perhaps even slightly more certainty in those marketing dollars, because they now -- the relationship we have around them is in riding now. It's not that it can't be changed. It can be changed, but at least I think it's a little clearer and a little -- slightly more ability to anticipate it. And so with that certainty and awareness, we could pull it into the LTV calculation, so it was primarily money we were already receiving in other lines. But with the certainty we moved it into the LTV, and I think that's a pretty standard procedure. And of course, there are additional increases as there have been some commission increases.

So the change is not solely attributed to that of the increase, perhaps a little over 80% was attributed to the reclass and a little less than 20% to other increases. So that's behind that. Just -- and we like it better, because it provides more clarity to the financials of the business doing it this way. So we took it as a positive process change. But clearly, it's not all financial impact, change is not that big since it's just moving from one area to the other.

And then secondly, Ian, on the question of where we target it's interesting, our business grows where we have leadership on the ground, and we do move leadership around occasionally, but not that frequently. And so our business generally runs in line with population of the U.S. and Canada and as the middle income market grows, which it continues to do, we grow, but we have not found it worthwhile to specifically target areas. If we don't have leadership on the ground than us trying to artificially grow in an area that is underrepresented in our business, we've just not found success in doing that.

Now when people ask us, if they want to move to a place with more opportunity, we can tell them, because we know where we're underrepresented, but we've just not found it profitable to move people who choose not to move to a new location and have them struggle. If they want to move back home, where they came from and that's an underrepresented area, that's great. That works well for all of us, but we don't try to do that artificially from the company level.

Certainly.

Welcome back, Mark.

Yes. There's still room for growth in the numbers, Mark, but the percentage is artificially higher right now, because of the low sales levels in the main part of the e-TeleQuote business. I would anticipate that as we grow together as we grow that business, assuming that we -- to determine that it can be grown in a profitable and sustainable way that we could grow the Primerica business or the Primerica portion of those leads that are referred in by our sales force at a similar rate. And our objective is to run in the maybe 20% range, a little either side of 20%, so it's a little artificially high percentage wise, because e-TeleQuote leads were down in the quarter.

But we do expect, again, assuming that we can demonstrate the profitability of the business and gain comfort in it that we would grow that. There is more potential on the Primerica side, but we are not expecting that to become 40%, 50% of the total. That's not the model we're running to. It's as we've described it, the Primerica piece is a unique advantage that we can have in this marketplace because we do have access to those leads in a unique way through the relationships of our Primerica representatives and those leads are extraordinarily high quality, as we've all talked about before.

So we want a lot of them. But at the same time, we want that business to be successful on its own. So something in the range of 20%, a little higher than that a little lower as we grow would be a target, I would say.
