Glenn Sanford
eXp Word Holdings, Inc. (EXPI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So I touched on it in my prepared remarks, but basically we -- it's obviously, we have a tough housing market. And as a result agents have sold less real estate. That has been one aspect, so there's definitely been just industry churn. The other part was that we actually had a number of nonproductive agents that were on our rosters and weren't contributing, and they work cost. Every agent that's with eXp, there's a cost to have them involve technology, support and other things. So we did off board them, but they hadn't sold real estate for -- a piece of real estate for over 12 months and hadn't been paying fees, most cases of similar length of time. So it was really just trimming the numbers to be really our productive agents who are actually focused on being here.

Moving forward, we expect, our agent count to return to growth over time as we continue to sort of retain our highly productive agents and demonstrate, obviously, it's demonstrated really by our strong agent satisfaction. But we're actually going back to the drawing board on a few different things that we're really excited to work on and hopefully be able to announce here in the not too distant future that we think is going to be really helpful as well.

No. We had really cleaned up a lot of our, we'll say our operations in the last year or so. And one thing that we had noted was a fairly significant -- one, we had cleaned up a whole bunch of what we call accounts receivable, which basically means there was a lot of things that we hadn't collected that needed to be collected.

And in that, it sort of revealed as we kind of more granular that we've got a group of agents who for all intents and purposes were just on our on our roster. But there's we're providing there's a number of tools and technologies. So you figure out that each agent has a monthly cost. And they just, we had worked with them. We had tried to get them in production, and a lot of them really effectively ghosted us as an organization.

So they weren't even really communicating with us. So it was -- so we did off board some in Q4, we off board a few more here in Q1. But I think we're pretty much done and then it should be a much more -- there shouldn't be like big blocks of agents off boarded for this reason, because we do want to stay a little bit more up to speed on it so that we don't show a higher agent count than truly active and productive with eXp.

So domestically certainly, we felt some competitive pressures. We were effectively the only cloud based brokerage model for the first 11 years of our existence. Now there's a bunch. You probably know all the names but there's real LPT epic, and there's a number of others as well. So there's a bunch of these for lack of better term, copycat, cheaper versions of the model. And so, we we've definitely felt some pressure. Certainly, agents have we've had lost agents to some of these other models and we've also gained agents back from some of those models already, even though they're pretty young in their life cycle.

So, domestically, probably see some of that. But internationally, we are in a completely blue ocean. I mentioned earlier that in South Africa in just a couple of years, we've grown to about 1,200 agents, 7 largest state agency in South Africa, but we're growing fast in South Africa, France, Dubai, still UK, which has been a really great market for us. We're getting traction in different markets. We also have some markets where we haven't really grown and so we we're either looking at leadership changes or just seeing if the model needs to be tweaked in some capacity. But we really expect that international is going to be our big growth in the next coming years, and I'm super excited about it.

And it's really, these are anecdotal numbers because there's not statistics like NAR in most of these countries, but we figure there's approximately 20 million real estate professionals worldwide. And if we -- over the next 10, 15 years can get to a similar market penetration that we have in the U.S. and Canada then that puts us gives us a path to a potential 1 million agents, which is a crazy number to think about under these one umbrella. But because we we're very unique in the way that we approach the model, we think there's a lot, a lot of growth potential there and that's where we're spending a fair bit of time really figuring that piece out.

Yes. We already have at least 1 or 2 countries that are fairly mature in the discussions to open up those new countries. One country we expect to day 1, we'll start with 100 of agents. And so we've got a number of good partners in terms of international market. But one of the things we're doing though is we're actually going back to the drawing board and how we actually operate international markets. We've now got enough experience, open running international markets to go back and retool in a way that we think is going to reduce our expense to run a international market substantially.

So, in the early days of eXp, we could operate in a given state in the U.S. with a managing broker and then just the eXp back office stuff. But we could operate $10,000 a month or so, with no transactions. We think that there's a way to do some an analog to that when we grow internationally, so that our expense load is substantially lower so we can keep these markets open while the initial momentum in those countries take place. And so, we're excited to kind of regroup on a lot of that and that's actually been that was part of our strategic discussions late last year and going into this year. And we think we've got a good path to really operate these more efficiently with more entrepreneurial mindset, country leaders.

So Frame is I've referred to it in the past when we've talked about it as really kind of you’re to do it yourself Metaverse. Meaning that it doesn't whereas, Virbela was a fairly heavy application you had to do -- had to have to download a client and then those clients, when you get into large enterprises, investment banks, et cetera. A lot of times getting through the info security or info sec to actually get those things actually allowed or firewalls or other things would just prevent the application in the way that we envision it. When you're doing it through the web, it makes it much more accessible. We can string together, rooms very easily, put in doors and basically portals to other spaces. And you can go to framevr.io and start playing with it today.

Like, literally, you can go there. You can set up your own space. You can go and build I don't know if there's auditoriums in there. Probably is. But you can you've got 50 plus spaces that you can choose from either offices to big campuses to lodges to what have you. There's a lot of things going on behind the scenes just in the Metaverse arena. Mozilla Hubs, there's some stuff going on with them right now. We're actually because eXp is using this at a very high level, we're -- it's now really what I call enterprise ready and that's why we sort of put it out there at this point.

Virbela is a great platform. There we don't do have a number of clients that use it, but it never really got had the appeal on the enterprise level that we originally expected in 2020 after COVID hit. So where we made a big investment. Before, it was really just we were using it primarily for us and obviously since clients came.

Frame, I think is going to have an already has a natural fan base of users because of the way that it's structured from teacher organizations to museums to all kinds of different places because it is much more accessible. So you you'll see, a lot of that premium type service coming out of Frame, and we think there's a good path to actually create a SaaS based platform that could be significant over time using Frame.

Yes. Well, domestically, I think it's -- I think that we're in an industry right now that's not going to see a huge number of new licensees, like we've seen, like, in 2021, maybe even 2022, with the decline in real estate transactions. You obviously, there's a backdrop of what's the industry going to look like in 2, 3, 4 years, I think, in a lot of people's minds, even potential new licensees. So I think we're kind of little bit of a slower growth. Obviously, if the Fed decides to reduce interest rates substantially and then that ultimately adds fuel to fire.

Maybe we end up picking up more agents wanting to get in the business. So, I think the backdrop is we're not going to see a lot of industry changes in terms of data count but Accelerate, Thrive, Boost, those are tools that we have now that are definitely helping. We think that there's probably more things we can do to be offensive in terms of growth. We've got some meetings actually coming up in early March, where we're actually going over some things that we believe are going to do just that. So we're excited to get those masterminded and rolled out.

But, so I guess the long and short of it is it's a little bit early too early to tell but we did, we have obviously seen more competition, no doubt. We've seen, less agents in the industry at large, which doesn't help in terms of overall growth. But we've still obviously continued to grow market share, which is really the thing I mentioned a couple years ago. Let's focus on market share because the market's going to be tough. And then, but we think that there's some ways to actually get ways to actually get good agent growth by creating some better ways to monetize from an agent's perspective to be at eXp.

I mean, we've got an interesting backdrop of things going on. We've got obviously, we're defending a ton of these commission based lawsuits, so there's definitely what we call risk management. So there's some risk management fees because we're our just our legal costs are going up significantly. So we're working on generating some additional revenue to pay some of that legal cost and then we made adjustment to the discount on the stock comp plan.

Again, it's a little bit non-cash, but at the same time, it's still an item that actually plays a role in sort of our cost to operate and everything else. So we made a couple adjustments there, and then we do have new revenues coming down the pike as well. So, we don't break all of it at this point. I think those may be I don't know how much visibility you've had to some of that, but we've got a couple small tweaks, which reducing costs on our stock comp, increasing a little bit of revenue on our risk management fees. And then we've got other business opportunities that are coming in.

A lot of that are stuff that Leo's been on underneath the Revenos and agent services, affiliate services even things like our and we've got some revenues that come from places like Clearwater and some partnership type stuff that we've got there, and then we've got others. So I don't know, Leo, if you got any others that you want to touch on but those are just some that are on top of mind.

Yes. I think you've got the more granular data.
