Greg Roberts
A-Mark Precious Metals, Inc. (AMRK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, I think it's a positive. Rob has proven over the last 10-plus years that he's been involved with JM Bullion that he has a grasp of all parts of the Company. He's done a great job, and he's -- in my mind, he's the right person going forward. Michael is still a tremendous asset to the Company. He's on the Board. He and I still consult weekly. And his -- his efforts and his focus for his expertise is, I feel like we're going to continue to have that -- the benefit of his abilities.

Rob has been running the digital marketing and the client acquisition part of JM Bullion for a while. And I believe that Rob is the right person for the right person for the job. And Michael is still a part of A-Mark and still a part of JM Bullion, so I think it's a positive. And obviously, the move was something that I felt was the right move, and I'm very confident in the decision.

Sure. Obviously, everybody can see we had a very strong fourth quarter and an even better full year, which is one of the main drivers. And when we look at capital allocation and what we -- where we put the money and what we do with it, the performance, as we've talked about before, certainly justified the special dividend. I will say that we are committed to the regular dividend, as well as always keeping in mind how the next three to six months looks as it relates to acquisitions, inventory opportunities and other factors that we look at.

I would say that we're comfortable and optimistic that our pipeline for acquisitions right now is very good. There's a couple of things we're looking at. But the strength of last year and the strength of the quarter allowed us to continue and have the special dividend again this year. As we've said before, as I've said before, I look to where we think we can get the best return. If we think we have excess capital that we can't put to use, we'll return it to the shareholders.

And I think that continuing with the same special dividend that we had last year was indicative of the year's performance. And I feel like right now, our capital allocations are exactly where I want them to be, and I think we are in a great position going forward into the new fiscal year, that this should be a fairly active year for us in new opportunities.

Yes. I mean I think we indicated a little bit on our last call that the quarter -- our Q4 that just -- that we're reporting on here, had a very strong April and May. We carried a really big number in that period, with a good portion of the success and the profits coming in April and May. June did start to slow down a little bit.

And I would say July, in general, had a number of things that, I guess, I would call light headwinds. We had, as you pointed out, July is usually our slowest month, so we had some seasonality. I think that the risk off atmosphere in the overall market, in July, you saw a complete change in sentiment as it relates to what's going on in the global equity market. And I think that risk off, as we have said in the past, does cause a bit of a slowdown on the demand side.

At the same time, we saw a bit more supply. And we had a bit more product coming into the marketplace. A lot of that, we created ourselves. We have a bit more capacity right now. So I think the combination of those things, particularly the last couple of weeks of June and throughout July, caused some, what I call, premium compression.

And as a lot of people that follow our business knows, if they look around Silver Eagles in particular, are cheaper today than they were in May or in April as it relates to premium. So you've seen, like I said, a bit of compression there. And that can trickle down a little bit into our proprietary products and some of the other products that we sell.

As I said in the prepared remarks, we have seen some improvement, which is good in August. I think it coincides a bit with a change in sentiment in the overall market. I note that on August 1, it just felt completely different in the equities markets than it did in July. And I think we're seeing some customer response to that. In particular, the last couple of weeks of August, we've seen a significant increase in demand.

Premiums still are fairly low, but it doesn't take a lot for us on the demand side to really take care of any excess inventory we may have. So not surprising to me after such a strong April and May that we would hit a little bit of a slowdown in June and July, but like I said, I think we're still very happy with the performance, and I think the overall business of A-Mark in total is operating as I would expect it to in this environment. So hopefully, that answers the question.

Again, that's a specific question. It's a challenge to answer without a bit more context. We have been fortunate enough over the last 60 days to sell a tremendous amount of ounces in 100-ounce silver bars that we produce at SilverTowne. That demand has been very good, and the premiums have maintained. I think the one area that is out there, you can identify the information. It's public on the U.S. Mint's website is the United States Mint in July has been able to produce a few -- a significantly larger amount of Silver Eagles that it had in April and May. So you have had a little combination of a drop in demand, but you've had a little bit of extra supply on Silver Eagles.

Now, we have been very active in the last couple of weeks, two weeks in particular that we have been testing the market on a number of products. And we've been testing the premiums, and we have lowered a few premiums that -- with the intention of just gauging where the demand is. And I will say that over the last two weeks, we've seen very positive results from the lower -- slightly lower prices, both with ounces sold as well as with new customer acquisitions, that those lower prices have driven a significant amount of new customers to our DTC platforms.

So, all in all, it's a little bit of a balance, but I -- the information and data that we're seeing is very positive. I mean, in a -- in what is theoretically a slightly slower demand environment for us to pick up new customers the way that we have been at least in the two weeks of August as we've been testing a little bit, is very good news for us.

I think we've focused before on international expansion. That can be in the DTC segment or it can also be in our trading business, our wholesale trading business. And we have -- we have identified a few opportunities that we're looking at in these areas. I think that as it relates to the DTC segment and our domestic businesses where we have found some opportunities over the last six months on some smaller deals, we're regularly looking for those.

I think it's also important to note that towards the end of this year, as we've disclosed in our ownership interest in Silver Gold Bull out of Calgary, Canada, we do have an option window that opens in December that is contractual and allows us to increase our stake with them if we choose to. So that would be -- if we decide to do that, there's no assurances we will or there's no -- I'm not defining the timing of that. I'm just noting that it's part of the agreement that we have with them. That could potentially affect our international business a bit more.

So -- but I think we have a nice group of things we're looking at right now. And I think that what I really wanted to point out was even when we are balancing these things, we still felt very comfortable that the special dividend was good for the shareholders. And as we've said before, we want to reward the shareholders when we have a good year.

Well, a lot of it is equipment and -- and equipment that we can use to make products that we haven't made in the past. So I believe we have expanded at SilverTowne. We were very fortunate in this quarter to get online another new machine that is really, really right now turning out 100-ounce silver bars. It's, again, it's what we call a pizza oven. And it is perfect for us at this time.

We were able to pick up a machine that had been ordered and being built for somebody that had been in process for another competitor of A-Mark's for about 18 months, and that competitor decided to pass on it, and we were able to pick it up. And it's a testament to our SilverTowne Mint people. They were able to add on a new structure and put this new machine in the structure and get it up online producing 100-ounce silver bars in about 120 days with -- from the time that we ordered it or paid for it. And that is a very quick turnaround, and that has significantly increased our ability to turn our product there.

On the Sunshine Mint side, they continue to expand. They've added a second melt line that's up and running right now that they invested in. They've invested in some -- some automated robotic striking machines, which is, from what I see when I look at them is just an incredible new addition to the Sunshine Mint line of production machines. So, it's not just capacity, although we like to add capacity. It's making sure we add capacity in the right product that we need as well as trying to stay ahead of the curve on machines and production assets that we think we're going to need a year or two from now.

Yes. I mean I think as I mentioned before, I think it has a little bit to do with this -- what the U.S. Mint and their ability to deliver a few more coins. Now I'm not exactly sure whether their production numbers have changed all that much. I think they may have intentionally held some coins back and decided to release some coins. But whenever you see a change in the supply-demand dynamics as it relates to the U.S. Mint, it's going to have some effects, either very positive as kind of a follow-on to the U.S. Mint product or it can have a little bit of a negative as it relates to premiums if Silver Eagles just become a bit more available.

And I think it's important to note that the Silver Eagle continues worldwide and dominated in the U.S. to be the product of choice for one-ounce silver products. And I think that drives a lot of choice in what products customers decide to buy. If they can't get enough Silver Eagles or if the Silver Eagle premiums just become too high, it's going to drive up the premiums on some of the other sovereigns and some of our private mint products. Vice versa, if the Silver Eagle premiums are lower, the Silver Eagle is a likely candidate for purchase because that's the most popular coin.

So I think any change in those dynamics of the supply/demand in Silver Eagles is going to have effect on the overall market for the reasons described. I will say that as I have mentioned in the last few weeks, we've really been able to test the market, specifically on Silver Eagles. And we're very -- we have a very positive outlook as it relates to throughout the end of this year and our ability to maybe pick up our demand a little bit and take some of those coins that are on the market right now. So it's been good for us.

And like I said, I think the last couple of weeks of August, it's not a quarter, it's not a month, it's not a year. But I will say that we have seemingly handled this change in some of the dynamics very, very well. And I believe that we have continued to gain market share, and I believe we're keeping our market share that we have. So these are positives in my mind. The dynamics of how the market works, I gave you a fairly general answer. There's a lot more specifics that can go into it and that, we could have a discussion for an hour on that. But I think my response in general is what you need to hear.

Yes. I mean I think it's a bit of a moving target. The last buyback that we did, we were very clear on the range and the price that we bought the stock back at. Since that time, we have not seen the stock approach that level again. And I think that we're always open to the changing capital allocation equation that we go through here from a management perspective.

But I think that as it relates to the special dividend, we have said before that when we have a good year, we believe we should reward with a special dividend. As it relates to the buyback strategy and how we allocate to that, it's going to depend on all the circumstances and the moving targets that I just discussed.

It has a lot to do with where we are, as I said, in the M&A pipeline. And even though we look at a lot of deals, we don't close -- one of my big rules is never be in a situation where an opportunity is there, and we can't finance an opportunity efficiently and in all of the shareholders' best interest.

So I will -- and historically, I have, I will be a bit more conservative and a bit more careful on the capital allocations as it relates to buybacks and dividends if I believe the horizon indicates that there's a better opportunity for our money. And that's just -- that's kind of something that Thor and I and Kathleen, we discuss regularly here.

But it can change quickly. We can have three deals we're looking at that we think are great, and we don't close any of them. Or we can have three deals we're looking at, and we can get all the way down to the 20-yard line trying to close the deal and score a touchdown and we may close all of them.

So I think it's -- it's a little bit week-to-week, month-to-month. But in this case, we had a long discussion about the special dividend at our Board meeting two weeks ago. And we talked about everything I've just mentioned, and I felt really good where we came out of it. And if we believe [Technical difficulty]

Hello?

Okay. I'm back. This is Greg. We had a little disconnect.

Yes. I mean I don't see a significant change in -- in just the overall environment between the two quarters. I think we do go through periods where you'll see some slight change in the margin at the DTC side, just depending on what products we're trying to move out and what the mix of products is.

One thing that can throw off the numbers a bit is we make less money on big gold bars or kilo bars or even gold one-ounce coins from a pure dollar perspective than we do on silver. So it could be that we had a little bit higher mix of gold and silver, so it can show some anomalies. Just like if we sell a higher percentage of silver than gold, we're going to have a little bit higher margin from a percentage standpoint. So I think those things can change.

I don't think that between our Q3 and our Q4, I did not see a significant change in anything in the overall environment as it relates to margin. And then obviously, we've spent a good deal of time talking about the end of Q4 at June, July and August. And so you know what I think about that period. So -- but I -- there's a lot of things that can go in, and we can get some noise as it relates to just quarter-over-quarter on the DTC side.

Thanks, John. Once again, just to thank you to all of our shareholders. We appreciate your support. Thank you for joining the call today and anybody that follows up and listens to the call later. Thank you for taking the time to hear about A-Mark and learn about A-Mark. I'd also like to thank our employees around the world for their dedication and commitment to A-Mark's success. Looking forward to talking to you again in a couple of months for an update on our Q1.

Thank you very much.