Greg Brown
Motorola Solutions, Inc. (MSI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, George. So just to reconfirm, we do expect operating margin expansion for 2024, that's in part by informed continued improvement in PPV. And I have to complement Jason in the supply chain and Jack's ops team did a great job exceeding what we set out as targets last year. And to remind you, we are expecting another $60 million of PPV improvement in this year in '24. From a gross margin standpoint for the firm, we expect them to be comparable to slightly up. So I think we do a pretty good job on the operating leverage side of this business, both on gross margin and operating margin. By the way, the OpEx envelope year-over-year is probably going to be up about $80 million, '24 over '23, of which half is organic, $40 million, and $40 million is inorganic. As it relates to Silver Lake, really no update. They are in the final year of the second five year pipe. It expires in September. The diluted share count is already calculated into our EPS expectations. So really nothing to report at this point. The partnership remains good and we'll see how that plays forward for the balance of the year. By the way, we do expect -- on the expiration of the pipe, we do expect higher interest expense this year to be about $40 million, which includes the assumption of $1.3 billion of refinancing, of which $1 billion is the Silver Lake notes and $300 million is debt that expires in September this year.

So let's take the full year first. I think it's important to say that I'm super proud of last year. But to your point, as we're sitting here in February, backlog is strong, but Tim, so is the pipeline. So we're in a good aged backlog position but the pipeline remains strong as well, which makes me feel good about where we sit here for the balance of the year. I'd also tell you that when we think about the full year guide, it's coming off of a Q4 that exceeded our guidance. It's coming off of a full year that exceeded our guidance. And if you anchor it to the color I gave last time at about $10.5 billion, it's about $75 million higher than that reference a quarter ago. Now having said all that, so we guide for full year 6%, I remind you that $200 million is a headwind related to the UK Home Office. So year-over-year, we expect Airwave revenue to be about $375 million. But if you take year-over-year, you add in the $200 million full year UK Home Office headwind that can normalize the year-over-year comparison. Additionally, one other thing worth mentioning is and Jack talked about this a quarter ago, we had exceptionally strong revenue contribution from Ukraine of $150 million last year. And based on what's expected to be shipped in backlog, we expect that to be $50 million. So you take the year-over-year 6%, you take $200 million detriment for UK Home Office headwind, you normalize for Ukraine and I think our growth is quite solid and a prudent guide at this point in time.

Tim, one other thing, just because we're still to George's question weaning off PPV, and we'll have some commensurate benefits this year. If you take last year and this year, as we're working through the supply chain and elevated inventory and an improved freight in PPV, if you look at first half and second half, Tim, to your point about guide and linearity, it's very similar to last year. So I'm not concerned about anything as we sit here with our expectation for the full year performance.

Thanks, Tim.

I'll answer the second one first. The Jabil agreement is for them in 2024 to operate the two factories that will be transitioning to them. So not a significant change in cost profile in '24, but as we look to '25, with our growth expectations, there'll be opportunities for cost as well as an efficient way to scale the growth that we're expecting. So it was an agreement and us looking into the future and we're very pleased with it and providing us additional redundancy as well. It will help us scale, grow and also manage our cost envelope as we grow.

The Red Sea, we remain primarily on air as our mode of transportation. And so as a result, not a lot on the ocean and the impact of higher container rates is negligible for us. So given the state of the supply chain, while it's improving, we found that air and air rates are a good investment to make. And make sure that we're getting everything we need when we need it. We've seen continued improvement from supply chain and our vendors, particularly in some semiconductors. And they have some improvements to make and we expect them to continue to improve on the deliveries of -- in particular, nanometer chips of 40 nanometers and above in some cases. So improving and working through it.

That's right. The $827 million was down $200 million from its 12 month predecessor and we expect to drive $827 million down even further by year's end as we navigate an improving environment.

Just in terms of capital allocation, we always think of it. And I love the fact that we have the balance sheet that we do. Jason, in his remarks talked about 1.4 net-debt to adjusted EBITDA. So I love the opportunity -- the flexibility that that gives us. I'm proud of the way we are good stewards of capital, both returning it to the shareholder and share repo and dividend, but being surgical and thoughtful to accretive acquisitions as well. So you think about this cash flow and I always think the wheel of 55-30-15. 55% of that cash flow is available for share repo or acquisition, fungible between the two, representative of the opportunities that come our way. 30% is dividend and 15% as Jason just referenced is CapEx. Even though we made only one acquisition at the end of the year in IP video, it certainly wasn't reflective of the engagements that we had. I think there's a lot of opportunity. I love the fact that we have the organic opportunity, whether it's device refresh, public safety prioritization, ARPA funding, enterprise opportunity, video and government, you know the opportunities that are in front of us organically, which are consequential. Equally, I'm excited about acquisition opportunities that can make our portfolio stronger, particularly around either video, software or services. So that's how we think about it.

Yeah, we will pursue the next step, which is appealing to the UK Court of Appeals. We anticipate doing that next week. I've said all along and we remain pretty consistent that this whole thing has -- is beyond unique. We still believe it's unprecedented. We think it's legally flawed. But I'm not going to whine about it. I'm consistent in our description. We're going to pursue all the avenues available to us to defend our position. So to your point, that will be the filing of the appeal to the UK Court of Appeals next week. Unclear how long that will take. Probably, several months, but that remains to be seen. The only other thing I'd say is in public commentary that has been made with the CMA and other parliamentary hearings, it's pretty obvious that they believe that Airwave will be needed well beyond 2026. The references have been made by different parties to either meeting it through 2029 or 2030. So we will continue to move forward as best we can, engaging where we can, maintaining the investments that we need to make in this network and customer service levels as high as they've ever been.

That’s right.

Yeah, Tomer. That's consistent with what we've said before. I think that the key thing I would say as it relates to budgets right now is public safety number one, continues -- public safety spend continues to get prioritized. Number two, I've just scoured through the state and local budget drafts of 2025. By and large, the situation remains very solid. Even the states that have had an influx of immigrants have actually appropriated more dollars to public safety, which is interesting. But in generally speaking, when we look at it, the budget situations in state and local is very solid.

Yeah. Ben, in terms of the election year, it's interesting, we always talk about this too. If you kind of look back over the history of this business, we do pretty well, irrespective of the Republican or Democratic administration. So we've had great success in 2023, we expect to have another strong year this year. When there is a Presidential change, there is always some period of transition, they will typically operate under a continuing resolution. But in the main, generally speaking, we have a pretty solid foundational level of performance with kind of low beta risk, given the backlog and the continual high priority demand in public safety. On fixed video and we talked about Jason articulated, the 10% target for this year. Look, I actually like the fact that we have the width and breadth of the portfolio that we do. So we have the broadest portfolio in Video, fixed or mobile, prem or cloud, and we can meet the customer wherever they want to be met to buy. Most of our customers have both cloud and prem. If in fact that there is a notable acceleration of cloud adoption, which we've seen and we are seeing that moves more towards cloud, that's great. If that moderates the top line growth from 15% to 10%, that's okay too. Because [Technical Difficulty] revenue, the stickiness with the customer relationship and as Molloy said, he and we still believe we're taking share. So we feel good about the position. In terms of refresh on cameras, Jack, maybe you want to talk about that.

Thank you. Thanks, Ben.

The only thing I’d add on that, just in terms of cross sell would be that they've done very well in education, it's our role to get in and expand that business into healthcare, into workplaces, into transit areas where you have issues with people smoking and those kind of things as well. We think we've got the relationships to extend in those markets as well.

Yeah. PCR actually did great in '23, Keith. About a $1.1 billion of revenue last year. It was a record in full year '23. So the performance by that team was exceptional and I would expect PCR to be comparable levels this year. That's informed into the LMR mid single digit technology growth or actually high single digit when you normalize for Airwave. So PCR is quite resilient and doing well.

You bet.

Louie, how you doing?

We're positioned to offer our customers a choice. As Jack mentioned, we have growth expectations for both Unity, the on-prem as well as Alta, customers like those in education, we mentioned on the call are increasingly choosing Alta. The difference between the two is really how the VMS or software layers delivered. In the case of Alta, the VMS is delivered and deployed to the cloud under a term license. And in the case of Unity, it's an on-prem and more of a perpetual with a maintenance arrangement. So, those are the two models we have. Jack, customers are…

And Louie, while the customer decides, it's not so much what we push, it's what they want. And as Jack said, many customers deploy -- they deploy both. Cloud fixed video is smaller from our overall revenue contribution than prem fixed video, but it's noteworthy to say that the growth of cloud fixed video is a strong multiple of the prem solution.

I don't know, it depends on what '24's growth composition ultimately ends up being. But what I will say is the cloud solution, in our case Alta is growing significantly faster than prem. So it's hard to predict the competition -- the composition at end of year '24 till we see how things settle.

Thank you, Louie.

And maybe we can tag team this. But Command Center, that's another one I was particularly proud of, because we grew 21% for the year. Now obviously Rave, what's the key driver in that and Rave has turned out to be a great acquisition for us, actually exceeding its business case. Can you take that out, Jamie, and you normalize for organic growth, the organic growth is another solid year of 10% growth. And by the way, that's inclusive of the growth of a $25 million headwind, that actually represents the transitioning out of ESN. So when you think about the overall 10% growth of Command Center, you do have to include the normalization of the exit of ESN that's worth $25 million but growth remains pretty strong in that segment as well.

Thanks, Jamie.

Yeah, thanks. Listen, thank you for dialing-in and listening. I would just close by saying that, I think as we're entering 2024 or in it now in February, it's pretty clear that public safety and enterprise security have never been more important. I love the fact that we've got the broadest and most comprehensive product portfolio. I like the fact that as customers index to a more notable adoption on cloud acceleration, we're able to capitalize on that with our Alta solution. I love the fact that we have the APX NEXT refresh cycle in particular continue to march forward and that remains robust. And as was mentioned on the call, I am particularly excited about our partnership with Google. For all of the [Motorolas] (ph) listening-in on the call. I'm really proud of you. I'm proud of our team's execution in '23 and I'm anticipating another strong year in 2024 and I appreciate everything you're doing. I look-forward to catching-up and talking with you and debriefing in a quarter. Thanks again for all the great work.