Harvey Schwartz
The Carlyle Group Inc. (CG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, hi.

And Alex, in terms of the buyback part of your question, look, we've been spending a lot of time thinking about capital allocation. And we're going to take a much more disciplined approach in terms of how we execute on capital allocation.

I think the $1.4 billion buyback is an important first step, and we don't think the stock reflects the true value of the franchise. So you should consider us to be active buyers of our stock. I think it's also important to remember, we have a very strong balance sheet, which enables us to have the flexibility to -- in addition to giving capital back to our shareholders via a $1.4 billion stock buyback and our dividend, we have the flexibility and balance sheet strength to continue to invest in our business for growth.

Thanks, Alex.

Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for the question. I would say, look, I think it's really tough to look at fundraising kind of quarter-to-quarter. There's obviously going to be a lot of volatility. We had a great, great fundraising fourth quarter. We actually had a great year for fundraising and credit as well. And I expect importantly that, that momentum in credit fundraising will continue well into 2024. We've got good visibility on that.

It was really, really spread across all of our products that we're raising money for CLOs, as you mentioned, CTAC, which is our retail credit products always in the market. CCOP [ph] we raised money for it as well and Carlyle Strategic Solutions, which is our kind of asset-backed fund. So it's pretty consistent across the platform.

I think the important takeaway is not focusing quarter-to-quarter. We had a good year but we have really good momentum going into 2024 for credit fundraising and quite frankly, fundraising more broadly.

Thanks, Ken.

Hi, Patrick.

So, it's one of the reasons when we were going through our remarks in the prepared pages, we put out a range. Look, this is super important. We're going to execute on this compensation change very deliberately. The range really gives us the flexibility to execute on this deliberately.

Look, we have no idea what the market backdrop will look like. But look, I think you should walk away from this thinking our intent is for this to be DE neutral. The vast majority of our employees will not be impacted. There will be some variability in compensation for our senior folks in year-to-year. But if you look at it over a couple of year period, our intent is for compensation to not be up or not be down, and that's how we'll manage it.

I think it's also important to point out, and I mentioned that in my remarks, the senior people that will have some variability in their compensation, we did grant them performance stock units. So we really have great alignment with our senior people. These performance stock units are really shareholder friendly. They only vest upon share price appreciation. And quite frankly, I think everyone here, and on the call hopes they actually do best because they're very shareholder friendly instrument.

In terms of the 2024, $1.1 billion FRE target, you look at the 25% step-up from our 859 FRE in 2023, we feel very good about it. It really is three components. It’s growth, which we’re very focused on. Two, it’s the compensation change and third, we will continue to manage the business prudently in terms of expenses. We have no intention of cutting to the bone, but we will manage the business prudently, but it is a growth, prudent expense management and compensation changes.

Yeah, hey, Chris. Good morning.

Yeah. So I think you should think about it broadly across the platform. We have a lot of momentum, as you saw coming off the record fundraising the activity in the fourth quarter. But you should expect to see really good fundraising activity in credit across the private equity platform, our real estate business, our private equity business across infrastructure, the whole space. So we built this model up across the entire franchise.

I think in private equity, like the rest of the industry, specifically, I'm talking about the narrow definition of private equity, corporate private equity. I think there'll still be headwinds in the industry for that. But across our platform, we feel good about the $40 billion number. I will emphasize with John again, we report these numbers quarterly. We just don't think about fundraising. We don't run the business for a quarter but we feel good about the momentum in the business, really good about it.

Yeah. So again, the way John framed this, and let's just take a step back. I think many of you have known me for years in terms of how I think around the discipline of capital. But just taking a step back, when we think about capital, we think about growth and shareholder alignment and returning capital to shareholders and investing in growth. And we think about this really purely through the events of really where is the marginal ROI.

So the first thing that's most important about this is the investing in growth and we have capital available for that. This allocation to share repurchase reflects the fact that when we look at the enterprise value of our firm, it's quite compelling to return capital to shareholders. So we haven't narrowed this to one year for sure, but what we want to do is give ourselves the full range of flexibility. We're going to be very disciplined, very systematic about this in terms of driving growth, returning capital to shareholders and finding the balance, effectively the efficient frontier of where that exists. And that's how we're thinking about it.

But it's not a one year because as you implied, in addition to the dividend, which is $500 million this year, that’s how we’re thinking about it. But again, as John said earlier, you should expect to see us be active buying stock back.

Hi, Brian.

So let me take a step back a little bit and just tell you how we're thinking about it as a leadership team. First of all, thanks for noting the capital markets momentum, pretty muted environment actually for capital markets. The team really came together and embraced the focus. And we think that will carry through into 2024 for sure.

In terms of the compensation model change and the range, one of the reasons why John is only out of that range is, first and foremost, for us, it's about talent. It's about attracting and retaining the best talent. We have an extraordinary team here. And we want to make sure that as we introduce this, we actually have the flexibility to make sure that we do this methodically patiently and overtime.

So you'll see us move within this range and you'll see periods of outperformance and periods where basically this access a shop, it's over, but this is an output. We're going to manage the talent and make sure our talent gets paid for their performance first and foremost. That's the most critical thing, because that will deliver for everyone in the long run that will deliver for investing clients and that it'll deliver for our shareholders. But that's how we designed the model.

So in '24, look, I showed up a year ago, literally almost everyday. And I was the lucky recipient of some amazing franchise businesses and some great talent. One of those things is our secondary business. And over the course of the year, their growth. And as we indicated in our prepared remarks, we're expecting a doubling of FRE. It's an incredibly talented team with a huge amount of momentum.

There's aspects of that business that we continue to build is a financing component in that business. Obviously, I mentioned the fact that we've just launched recently CAPM. I think this is a tremendous opportunity for wealth clients, it's a diversified portfolio with really consistent performance. So I think you'll just -- you'll see us grow this business in a prudent way.

I think historically, maybe it didn't get highlighted as much. But this is a really strong team with a lot of momentum.

Hey, Brennan. How are you?

So what I would say, again, we're talking about incentive alignment across all our constituencies, pay for performance and really managing this process over a very long period of time. It's not for a quarter or a year. And so again, when I said stock absorber, the way I think about the compensation ratio is it will be dynamic reflecting the performance. And we want to make sure that we are investing in our talent, rewarding our talent consistently.

But there will be years where there'll be lower realizations and you may see the compensation ratio tick up a little bit. We're giving ourselves that flex. The most important thing about the financial targets we put out because I know that's new is our confidence around the margin, the $1.1 billion FRE target and the fundraising. And of course, obviously, the announcement around our share repurchase capacity. So we feel highly confident around those numbers, but we're giving you some insight into how we think about things as a leadership team.

Hi, Bill.

Hey, Steven.

Yeah. So I would say, certainly open to it, let me give you my framing. Again, many of you know me, but many of you know my family, sort of first principles approach. We see marginal opportunity that's very clear to us in growing and building on the base of the franchise, right? We have all the, footings. We have a world-leading corporate private equity business world-leading real estate franchise, world-leading secondaries business, a world leading credit growing business. I just talked about this a little business. So all the footings of what we need to, as a global private markets manager, they're all in place.

And the brand, so we have a lot we can build off of, and you start to see, again, that momentum in the record results from last year and in the numbers we've given you for this year. I think, again, first principles, we would never take anything off the table. I think if the industrial logic makes sense, it's good for our investing clients. Our teams and our shareholders, we'd be open to it. And we'll certainly consider things, but we're not feeling any pressure at this stage, not with this kind of momentum.

So again, you saw really strong performance out of the credit insurance platform. John referenced the $9 billion inflows in the fourth quarter. I think that we really like our positioning here. So the capital-light model gives us a huge amount of flexibility and allows us to be able to pivot in a number of different directions. And so I feel very good about the future here. I think the pipeline potential activity really reflects the partnership we have with Fortitude and really what will be happening for the foreseeable future in the insurance sector and the opportunity to build on the Fortitude platform is quite clear.

So we have a number of different steps we can take to keep growing. So the outlook over the next couple of years feels quite good.

Hey, Glenn. How are you?

Yeah. So again, that's why I understand and Glenn, you've known this about me for a long time. That's why I underscore, and I think I step back and say, listen, we want to think about the approach to capital management. This gives us the flexibility to return capital to shareholders because we think the enterprise value is so compelling here.

At the same time, we're not sacrificing growth. And so when we look forward over the next couple of years, we wanted this flexibility, and we will move back and forth, but we are 100% making sure we invest in growth. And we think the growth opportunities for Carlyle are pretty extraordinary, and we have the momentum. And I think you see it in the financial targets. So I would agree with you.

I think -- I don't know what John said it earlier, what is it about 10% of the market. I think the math should be pretty easy on that. So I think if we end up utilizing all of this, over the next several quarters, I think the math is pretty easy.

Thanks, everyone.