Heath Sampson
ModivCare Inc. (MODV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks. Well, a good reason why we guided to the first quarter is to provide the insight and really, like I said, to talk about the performance that we're having and you start seeing that in the second half, right? The first half of the year and what we've been talking about heavily impacted by redetermination and the recovery in COVID and utilization. However, the one item that we didn't talk about, because it just happened, was in the contract losses. And you can see that that's impacting us in Q1.

The wonderful sales that we had in 2023, in Mobility of $143 million and in Home of $11 million, the bulk of that starts coming on in Q2. So lots of success in winning deals but with a few contracts that happen and lost in Q1. That's the main reason that's the downtick on Q1. And then you can see the rest of the ramp. And this gets back to, again, what we've been doing in this transformation and the success we're having in the cost out, in sales new wins and just the broader growth across the Home industry.

So the detail is there to show, it's factual, so you guys can bridge to where we are. But you're right, it is specific within those contract losses that we talked about and that's the main driver for the decrease in Q1.

Yes, just a little bit more on that, Brian, right? We said this before too. We're asset-light business and our adjusted EBITDA that we're generating, specifically, again, why we guided to the exit rate as well. And then also said a 40% to 50% cash conversion; so we know this business generates cash flow, we know the transformation that we've done all the way from the operating metrics to customer set to sales and then now cost structure. We're in a really good spot, we have the headwinds that we talked about early. But with that current profile, we feel really good about our ability to refinance and we're refinancing at the right time.

Yes. So you think about what the market is doing and what our customers want, right? The pressures they are having, whether that's in Medicare or Medicaid, to really treat the patient outside of the clinical area, it's required to have access to the patient more fully. All of our services, whether that's personal care, RPM or NEMT are critical to that. So we have the size and scale in each of those. And then we've modernized and centralized and standardized. So we're in a really good position in each of the individual solutions as a standalone. So that's point number one.

But point number two, you think about how they come together. There's a lot of cross selling opportunities. And actually did specifically say this in the script. If you think about specifically the large payers, the integration that they are asking of us and seeing of us is specifically in the RPM and the NEMT world. It's there, it's the same patient and they need both of those services. So they can work standing alone, they can work together. So my job is to ensure that we continue to execute in accordance with our strategy and vision. At the same time, we look at the assets individually.

So lots of value, whether you're looking at them standalone or some of the parts but also value as a whole. So we're sticking with the strategy but you're right to point out the individual assets do have value as standalone as well.

Yes. Well, so the cost side, we couldn't be more proud of what we've been doing. Starting in 2023 which is what I said in my script, that we're a $27 million to $30 million cost out. However, that was offset because of higher utilization and redetermination. So really the pressures on margin have to do with redetermination and utilization. The cost efforts have been going very well which is why I have a lot of conviction around those continuing. And you can see those in the decks when you look at a per trip basis. We're really showing strong progress there.

So which gets to why I have a lot -- why we gave the guidance as an exit. A lot of it has to do with our conviction around the cost and we're seeing in the data and I expect to continue. Just to summarize again that the headwinds were in the short-term are to do with redetermination and utilization and then those mismatching of the contract losses to the onboarding of the win. So with that clarity and with the cost structure that we're taking out, you put that to our scale, we're in a really good spot as we exit this year. Do we lose you Scott?

Must have lost him. Hopefully he gets back in the queue. We'll talk to you. Thanks for that question, Scott.

Yes. Well, so you're right to point out the utilization has to do with 2 items, the big driver, just because of a denominator of membership coming away is redetermination. The good thing about that, like we are saying and then also if you're listening to what the payers are doing, we're about 70% through redetermination. And most of it crescending [ph] in April, there will be some redetermination that will happen in May and June. So there's a lot of conviction around that number and then the timing around redetermination which is the biggest driver for utilization. However, the other part of utilization that is seen across the country and is seen with us is this normalization of the usage of healthcare. So you can see that we actually have that utilization of healthcare also continuing to tick up and we expect at the end of this year, considering all those together will exit at about 10 million or 10.1 million [ph] of utilization.

So it's 2 factors. And I do think at the end of 2024 and if you listen to the rest of the healthcare world, they probably agree that at the end of 2024, we should be back to this kind of post-COVID normalized environment. So just in summary around that, a lot of understanding now that we didn't have early in 2023 or mid 2023 around all these factors. And again which is why we have conviction around both redetermination and normalization of healthcare utilization but both effect.

Well, so since I took over in November of 2022, the focus quickly shifted to our customers. And our customers that are specific to MA that are managed Medicaid and of course our state customers. And they actually all have different needs. And then you layer on what they're actually going through, whether that's because of the RADV rules that CMS came out with on Medicare, or whether that's the increased focus of [indiscernible] within Medicaid and then even within the state related bids, the requirement of innovation to do more free members. My point on that is what was in the past is different now from a customer expectation. For sure, you need to have the right quality, pick people up on time, have lower complaints but you need to do more than that. And then you even need to start integrating with the customer to ensure that they can properly manage the member experience or integrate with a facility so they can book the trip on behalf. All those items have been part of our transformation.

You look back a year ago, even 2 years ago, some of that, we weren't -- we weren't where we needed it to be. And that gets to -- and this is why I have a lot of conviction around what we've done, because of what the team has done. Those issues that we had around quality are gone. In fact, we're back to best-in-class. Integrating with our customers so they can control the membership. Member experience is happening now. Having an understanding of that member, so you know that whether they made their dialysis trip 3 times, so we can communicate that, we're doing that now. So all the stuff that we are in the place that we're in now, we didn't have before. And that's a big reason why some of our competitors were able to get in. And it's a driver for one of the reasons why we lost part of that contract before. But I'm going to say this again. The wins that we had in 2023 of $140 million-plus. That was scattered across many different, primarily managed Medicaid. And the reason why we are chosen is because all these items that we have, coupled with we can do more for that member.

So we can give the trip but we can also give insight to change, to manage a gap, or to improve customer satisfaction. Long story short, you need to have it all. And I think some of our competitors have some individual pieces. We have them now but we didn't have them before. So we did lose. I don't expect to win everything but what we're doing and what we're doing now, we'll win and continue to win more than when we lose.

Yes. So, 3 quarters ago and this is pretty consistent across our entire company. As you know, we have drivers that we have through our transportation providers. And of course, close to 20,000 employees, a lot of those caregivers. And that's always a challenge but it's really normalized over the last 3 quarters. So we feel we have a lot of opportunity to continue to hire and retain. The differentiator now in this environment, so the external headwinds that happened again 3 quarters ago or last year, those have been flat. What we are doing now, because of the efforts of centralization, standardization and even automation, we're able to free up resources to ensure we pay the right level and ensure that we can recruit and retain.

So long story short, the environment is stable. And what we've done around this integration, centralization, standardization, we're able to outpace the market and retain and grow appropriately on the labor side.

Yes. We wanted to be specific that it was one contract and one area because we have a lot of relationships with that payer across the country which we are in great standing. This specific issue has not been paid at the same time, why I said the next couple of months is because we will get it paid because it's contractually owed. So I wanted to make sure I set it because it was the main driver for the cash flow change in Q4. But I also wanted to be explicit about it and give the amount because it's contractually owed and we'll get it paid within the next kind of 60 days.

Well, that customer and I said this, we're still the largest NEMT broker. We have relationships from the top of the house down to procurement across all the countries. And we are doing things with them that are strategic and forward-looking. So they may be appropriately diversified, I think we gave them a window a couple of years ago to do that. But we are still the number one NEMT broker and we'll continue to grow with them. So unfortunate but going forward, I feel good about our relationship in our ability to continue to grow with them and, of course, others.

The refinancing the '25 [ph], it's going to be higher interest rate, that's not in the numbers but we feel like we're going to have a good interest rate. And then as we start delevering and paying down our line, that higher end that she said of 35% to 70% [ph] for the year, that's -- be on the higher end if you're modeling after the refi of the '25. And we'll update you more as we get closer but it's not on the lower end, it'll be on the higher end after the refi.

Yes. So again, why we wanted to kind of separate out Q1 versus the rest of the year and explicitly these contracts coming on are the sales that we had and closed in 2023. So why we feel good about the timing of those and the implementation ease of those is because we have a national platform and each of these states where we won, we already have other clients in there. If we didn't, there is. That's a lot of work to get to stand up a network. But we don't have that issue because we're already concentrated in those specific states. So, we feel good about the timing and the implementation. And again, we've already sold those, so it really is just execution for us. So I feel good about that. Thanks, Pito.

Yes. So 1Q being down is driven from the items that we talked about, right? So it's redetermination, it's the recovery utilization and it's also the mismatch, the loss that we had that hit us in Q1 and then the onboarding of our sales. And then you couple that with the continued ramp of our cost out, that's already happening. So, those items, we're at the low point in Q1 of that margin perspective for those reasons. But again, the sales are coming on. They already sold them, right? Redetermination will be behind us. Normalized utilization we expect and we're in line with that. So it really gets down to the last component which is those cost savings. And we talked about this in the script. I feel good about 60 [ph] as a total, right? But that's probably not -- that's not going to come till 2025. So it really is, what are we expecting to get in this year. So it really is getting $30 million and that is about just execution. So which is why we gave that exit rate of 8% to 8.5%. So controllable in process and really down to that one item.

For Q1, no. Yes. So, it won't come down, right? And then just to be in line with that, the margins will be lower in Q1 and Q2 and then start to ramp in Q3 and Q4 at a -- so the ramp will be higher in Q3 and Q4, exiting at an 8% to 8.5%.

Yes. So first off, you're right. What the team has done has been tremendous, right? They've gone through a transformation themselves from Catherine, who's relatively new as CEO for the last couple of years and you can go through the management team that's new. And across the board in all the metrics and of course in the financials, it's showing up. And then even strategically what they've done on the technology side. So the company is a very well-oiled machine that has a very unique capability. They have a network of 5,000 nurses across the country that not only can do risk adjustment but they're in the home which is why there's so much talk and value around that. So I couldn't be more happy with what the team and successful.

So we're not going to give you what happened out of 2023. We gave the broad range a number of quarters ago and we're sticking with that of an EBITDA of $50 million to $100 million. Again, why was that so broad? Because that was a long time ago. So I'd still use that as the right proxy for how you want to evaluate this. So getting to the timing of modernization, we are completely aligned with our partners, their focus and our focus is, again, to support the management team and at the right time to actually have it monetized and allow this team to really grow and do the great things.

So what I said in my script is within the next 12 months and that aligns with what we are. But it gets back to again that it is performing in a very valuable asset in the marketplace. So, hopefully that's helpful.

Yes.

Yes. So similar to what I said before, I think we're aligned with our partners. The best thing is to support the management team and get the highest value. So my estimate of 12 months is what I expect but it'll be when it's the right time and Frazier wants to also monetize when the time is right. So consistent with what I said before, that's it. The value of Matrix is the nursing network, right? So it matches with what's happening in healthcare. Though there is some pressures around risk adjustment. Really though, risk adjustment couldn't be, is more of a need than it has ever been because of what is necessary to do with that specific patient. So the value is we have a national platform across all the payers, risk adjustment demand remains.

And then, since you have those nurses and you're in the home, you can do a little bit more or a lot more, whether that's giving a vaccine to closing another gap. So that's what we're enabling this management team to work on and build and we will monetize at the right time.

No. Next question.

Well, so, it's -- all of our contracts that are with shared risk, this is why they reconcile over many months. So it's complicated. But we've been under this contract with this customer. Well, one, they've been a long-time customer of ours many, many years. And this contract structure started in late 2022. So we feel really good about the math and the collection of the entire amount. It's in line with the requirements of the contract. So we'll collect it within the next 60 days or so.

It's really all of it in the second half, Mike. So again, the amounts in the first half and then, though, Barb says tensions but it really is redetermination and utilization and the contracts are working. So it's working capital and the bulk of it is this increase in receivables, because redetermination is bringing down our membership. And that's just -- the delta between that, we throw in our balance sheet within receivables. So it's arithmetic, both in AR and then paying off the account, the contracts payable. But because of predetermination not ending till April, May. That's the main reason why we utilize so much in the first half of the year. But that's also done in the first half of the year which is why we'll quickly ramp that rest to that kind of midpoint of $50 million.

Yes. So, well, we have a refinance line and there'll be fluctuations that happen within the first couple of quarters. So we're not going to guide to what's actually going to happen in Q1 and Q2 around cash flow but we have a lot of confidence in our exit rate around cash flow.

Yes, the amendment to the revolver is in there. And that's relatively small, right? But it doesn't include the additional interest on the 2025. And going to -- I think it was Pito's question before. We did give a range there. So I think it's going to be higher interest but we'll also be bringing down, as we start generating cash flow, we'll be able to bring down that line. So the right way to think about it right now and we'll get more specific when we do refinance is in that higher end range which was closer to 70 [ph] as a total annual number.

So what I was referring to was the state business with Mobility. So and those -- a lot of those contracts, especially in the second half of '23 and even in '24, have been pushed out. But I do expect RFPs to happen in 2024. But when those awards happen, that volume won't come on until 2025. And then the success rate that we've had in our recent state bids that did come up and that we talked about, right? We won one and then extended one and then renewed. So I expect that we will win more than we lose. Therefore, that happens in '24 and we'll let you know when that happens in '24 but that -- and then we'll appropriately tell you what's going to happen in '25 when that new volume comes on.

Yes. So consistent with this, I think, a couple of quarters ago we said this, the TAM for state is about $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion and we have about half of that ourselves right now. So we have the ability to go after that other half. That entire $1.2 billion is not going to churn in '24 or even '25 but there'll be meaningful opportunities for us to grow, to retain that half as well as to grow above that.

Thank you for participating in our call this morning and for your interest in ModivCare. Our updated investor presentation is posted on our Investor Relations website. If you want to schedule a follow-up call, please contact Kevin Ellich, our Head of Investor Relations. Thanks and have a great day.
