Howard Coker
Sonoco Products(SON) CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Right. Thanks, George. I'll turn over the more financial related to Rob. Yes, we'll talk in more detail next week about the combination. And I think you'll see the rationale and why we view this as an obvious combine of the two – you just at a very high level I can just say that synergistically, it makes a lot of sense. And then if you look at the markets that we serve and the customers we share and there's more beyond that. So I'm going to leave that where it is and we'll get into that with next week. Rob, do you want to talk about price cost and…

Yeah. And I said we're also cautiously optimistic as we see our customers starting to market more, you're seeing more discounting actions. So the expectation is that through the course of the year, we'll start seeing some improvements as Rodger just said.

Yeah. No, of course, long shelf life destocking has carried a little bit further than you normally would expect against our portfolio. What we're seeing right now and we're expecting and what we're hearing from our customers and how the year started, we're actually looking at a net being up year-over-year call it low to mid-single digits.
Aerosol in particular is actually on the favorable side of that. If you look at the fourth quarter alone, year-over-year aerosols were actually up mid to low single digits and food was slightly down. So pretty pleased with what we're seeing in terms of recovery from a volume perspective with a pretty weak, very weak start to last year. But very, very understandable.

Again considering the long shelf life associated with these products. So pretty bullish about volume recoveries as we start the year as we finish out January and as we look into next year and as we finished last year in the fourth quarter.
And I would add that I think the acceptance of the price increase effective mid-quarter, mid-first quarter has been positive.

Yes. I mean we feel really good. I mean, from a share position perspective, I'm not aware of any material share loss. So, in fact, I've probably got a longer list of share gains. They're just not overcoming the overall segment, consumer segment situation and demand profile. Frankly, if you -- as we talk about volumes and it's across all our businesses through the year, and then you flip over and look at the productivity performance, and I thought about this before, we've invested extremely heavily in all our businesses in the core and are continuing to see our productivity increase.

And as volumes do recovery and leverage starts really materializing or normalizing within our facilities. I'm pretty bullish about how we can convert that into even higher productivity than we've been seeing thus far. But no from a share position, we're in good shape from a share position as far as I'm concerned.

Yes. Again, we'll get into this in more detail, and I think, it will be a lot more obvious to all of you next week of why it makes sense to combine these under one leadership team. And as we look at -- so look, we do think to open up the aperture in terms of acquisition opportunities within that side of the business, but it doesn't take away from many of the other core businesses at all. It just makes -- and you'll see that next week makes good solid sense.

The Cleveland that not really a big surprise as related to the mill not a material impact to us at all from a supply position. And that's really all I can say to that. We don't view that as an impact to us in any way. this year or in future years going forward depending on how long they do and tend to keep that mill down.