Ivan Tornos
Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (ZBH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Hey, thank you, Larry. Always great to hear from you. So I'll take the first two parts and then Suky can talk about the rest.

So embedded in the guidance for 2024, which we're very confident on the 5% to 6% is macro and micro reasons. So from a macro perspective, by now you heard from most of our peers, the markets are very healthy. We believe beyond the backlog, the markets are going to continue to be healthy. You got better patient demographics, younger patients; you got the dynamic of cases moving into an ASC. You got more days of surgery in the U.S. where it's not just two days you see in three days. You've seen shorter, better rehabilitation processes. I can go on and on, but the markets are very healthy.

And then from a micro perspective, we got a cadence of new product launches. Most of them are going to be very meaningful as you hit the second semester of the year. We got three new product launches in hips early in 2024, which again will be more material later in the year. We launched in ROSA shoulder. We got a cadence of new product introductions in S.E.T. We're going to continue to increase our penetration in cementless and ROSA. So again, the combination of new product launches, great commercial execution, amplified by the healthier market dynamics, gives us confidence on a minimum 5% and a range of 5% to 6%.

Relative to my philosophy when it comes to guidance is very basic. We make commitments and we don't miss them. So we study the different dynamics. We study where we're at. We know that operationally we're in a better place. We don't have the headwinds that we had in 2023 around supply and whatnot. So my guidance represents or exemplifies my philosophy of making commitments and delivering on those commitments. I'm not going to comment today on whether there is opportunities to beat and raise for the year. I just leave it at my philosophy is to make commitments and deliver commitments, and these are very well studied commitments.
So with that, I'll pass it on to Suky for your second question.

Thanks, Matt. So performance relative to the quarter, we're very pleased with the quarter. We perform in line with our expectations for knees and frankly for the entire business, and for the year, it was a solid year with a knees growing double-digit and the entire business growing 10.5% with nice EPS expansion. We really don't pay acute attention to what happens to one quarter. I know that it's our job to do that, but we just don't. The 60 to 62 working days in a quarter, all kinds of volatility, then you add comps. So when it comes to performance, we look to 8 to 12 quarters. And if you do run the analysis 8 to 12 quarters, you're talking about knees, but take a look at S.E.T. hips and whatnot, the performance is there.

Speaking of volatility in Q4 for knees, we did see in the U.S. we did see some tons of orders. That impacted some of our largest IDNs here. We also had, let's remember, some tougher comps versus Q4 of 2022 particularly in the U.S. where we were 500 basis points ahead of our strongest competitor in knees. And again, if you look at Q3 that's a quarter where both the knees and hips we outperformed all competitors in the U.S. So again given all this volatility, all these ups and downs we just don't pay attention to one particular quarter. We look acutely at the trends and the trends do show that, 50 years later, we continue to be the number one player in knees and we continue to gain market share.

Relative to the second part of your question around 2024, what gives us confidence around the guidance is the fact that we continue to see increases in cementless penetration. We continue to see increases in ROSA penetration. We have solved the backorder challenge that we had in this, which was a headwind for many periods in 2023. And we've seen this great commercial execution in the ASC. So we're very confident about where we are in knees and we are very confident around the acceleration in knees going into 2024.

Thank you. Well, let me just begin with a simple answer. Anything and everything we're doing, restructuring wise and inventory management wise is embedded in the guidance we give it. So that's part of that. In terms of inventory management or inventory reductions, we're going to be bold but not reckless. So we're not reducing inventories in the key categories. We actually are making sure that inventory is what it needs to be for those key brands, whether it's Persona, whether it's the key components in hip, whether it is the key components in S.E.T. This is a lot of the leftover from the integration that we didn't do. So the inventory reduction is going to be in non-critical areas, frankly, in non-critical countries. So again, we're doing this thoughtfully.

In terms of the restructuring, the reductions that we announced this morning, these are happening in back office. I will tell you virtually all reductions are non-customer facing. And again, the changes we make in inventory and people are embedded in the guidance that we're giving.

Hey, thank you, Robbie. So solid quarter for S.E.T. frankly, solid last semester of 2023 for S.E.T. growing around mid-single-digit, around 5%, and committing to growing mid-single-digit or above in 2024. The key drivers are the use of suspects. We continue to do really well with upper extremities growing upper single-digit, double-digit in most geographies, that's new product launches, that's focusing the ASC, that's stable supply, just great commercial execution.

Our CMFT business, craniomaxillofacial thoracic, continues to do really well. We call that we did two, three acquisitions over the last three years, and those continue to do really well. And again, CMFT is a business where we see upper single-digit, double-digit. We finally stabilize our restorative therapies business here in the U.S. Recall that we had some reimbursement challenges there, and those are behind. So you've seen the biologics restorative therapy business growing at a nice clip now.

And then sports med, we've done some acquisitions. We have had some challenges, but that continues to perform in line with expectations. So I will tell you, Robbie, out of the six businesses within the category, four are going really well. Trauma, Foot and Ankle, we got some work to do. We got some decisions, some strategic considerations to make.

As we enter 2024, mid-single-digit is the point of entry. This has to be the year where we see S.E.T. growing mid-single-digit. Frankly, in some geographies, I think it's going to be higher than that. We got the innovation; we got the investments in terms of dedicated infrastructure and specialization, heavy emphasis here in the U.S., in the ASC environment. So again, full confidence in the growth profile that we're going to see moving forward.

Yes.

And Joanne, relative to your question on cementless, I'll give you as much as I can. So, starting with the basic pricing dynamics we see with cementless Persona OsseoTi, we see an ASP uplift of around 10% to 15%, frankly closer to the 15% than the 10%, around 40% to 50% of the time, we combo the cementless knee with robotics, with ROSA, and that drives additional uplifting revenue in the form of disposals and whatnot. So that's a great dynamic we see in particular in the ASC.

Our penetration today on cementless, we're exiting 2023 somewhere near 18% to 20% with both expectations; excuse me, to get into the 50% to 60% range. And I'm not going to give you a commitment today, but at our Analyst Day, you will see the long range plans and some of the trending when it comes to getting to 60%. We believe that there's going to be a fairly quick uplift, given the fact that the market is already being developed by some of the work that our peers have done. So again, you should not expect that getting to 50% to 60% is going to be a long journey. All of these dynamics are in the U.S. We're launching in 2024 in other markets outside of the U.S., and I will disclose the pricing dynamics when the time is right. But excited about the launch in Japan in 2024 and other key markets. So those are the dynamics here when it comes to cementless.
Yes, I'll try to simplify it. And Suky, by all means elaborate, but we believe the market is around 4% all in. And again, we model this in different ways, but let's call it 4%. I'm not going to quantify the new product contribution, but pretty significant. We got 40 new products getting launched in the next two years, and these are meaningful products. I mentioned we got three large hip products that are going to get launched early in 2024. We got ROSA shoulder, which we believe is going to be meaningful in the year 2024, given the fact that it's not a late year launch. We got a lot of products in the S.E.T. category.

So again, you should think of new product introductions as a very meaningful contributor of the guidance. Add to that the fact that we don't have the headwinds that we had in 2023 when it comes to supply, I would say between number one and number two; we got confidence on where we're going. Beyond that, we don't see a headwind when it comes to the shift to the ASC. We actually see that as a tailwind. We're excited about some of the dynamics we're hearing about when it comes to the movement of shoulders into the ASC. That's going to be a contributor.

And as I mentioned to Joanne, the uplift that we see on cementless and ROSA, which are products that we launched three years ago but now going to get accelerated are the main contributors to the confidence in the guidance. I don't know, Suky, you have anything else here?

Thank you.

Hey, thank you, Jeff. So I got to be careful what I say about time lapse for ROSA shoulder. I'll just say that I'm very confident that this is not a late 2024 launch. And as I mentioned, I think it's going to be very meaningful. So beyond being first to market, it's a high quality product. It's going to be applicable for both reverse and anatomic surgeries. It's going to simplify a very complex procedure. It's going to be fully integrated with the rest of the shoulder ZBEdge ecosystem. I believe it's going to get great traction in an ASC environment where speed and accuracy matters. And we're going to hopefully demo these next week at the academy meeting. Whether it's ready or not, it will be demoed there at the academy meeting.

Relative to your second question on the ROSA placements and the numbers, you should expect us to do around 300 installations per year. You should expect us to drive penetration rates of minimum 5% to 7% at least per year. You should expect that one-third of these ROSA -- overall ROSA installations are going to go into an ASC environment. And as I mentioned earlier to Joanne, you should expect that in a large percentage of cases, these ROSA installations are going to push cementless. So again, great momentum with ROSA and I'm very excited about where we are with shoulder.

So the answer is yes to both, Richard. So we will have some data points on Persona IQ, and we'll have some data on GLP-1. On Persona IQ, we moved from a limited market release in 2023 to full market release in 2024. We got the value proposition finalized. We got over 2 billion data points. We understand there's a product that is going to enable clinicians to intervene when needed. We got data points on how this product will reduce overall complexity in the episode of care. How we can by intervening soon reduce cost, especially post-surgery, when it can be pretty taxing.

We don't do reimbursement. We spoke about the NTAP new technology add-on payment, which we got back in October. So that's in full launch mode. We will submit. Barry always asks me this question. We will submit for a PPT coming some point in the spring, summer, and we're going to bring some data around, some of the experiences that we've seen with Persona IQ at the Cleveland Clinic, HSS and other facilities.

So excited in terms of what we have with Persona IQ, more to come at the academy. And then for GLP-1s, yes, we're going to be sharing some of the data we've done in conjunction with the academy. And what I will tell you is that so far, everything we've seen with GLP-1s is that it remains a tailwind. We're actually tracking the number of patients that are using a GLP-1 pre-surgery, and that number is in the 20% to 30%. So by all means, this is not a headwind, and I'm glad that conversation is being muted.

Yes. We have some internal data points that we don't share. What I will tell you, Jayson is that new product launches, we had to do limited market releases instead of full market releases, Persona OsseoTi is an example. Conversion, as Suky mentioned, we had to prioritize or send some family customers versus converting accounts. And then the third headwind of supply, from a revenue perspective, we couldn't embark on global expansion of these new product launches. So the example that I used earlier around Japan, second largest market in the world, we could have done things differently. We could have been on the market. So it is sizable and it is behind us.

Sure. Thanks, Keri. I'll keep it short.

I know we got to get going here, so a minute or less. I want to start, I want to end the way that I started the call by thanking the team members, the almost 20,000 team members here at Zimmer Biomet who are doing a remarkable job in executing the plans that we lay forward. So ZB grew 7.5% constant currency in 2023 with a nice EPS expansion of 200 basis points that's after growing 6.6% in 2022. And now we're committing to at least 5% revenue growth, 5.5% mid-point with nice EPS expansion and double-digit growth in free cash flow.

So very proud of the work that team members are doing. And we're very excited about 2024. We are moving from remediation to -- we have moved from remediation to innovation. I'm excited about the pipeline of products. I'm excited about the financial profile that we commit to and growing EPS faster than revenue and free cash flow faster than EPS. And so far during the year, everything that we're seeing gives us confidence, or confidence that it's going to be a very solid year for Zimmer Biomet. So thank you for your attention this morning, and thank you, team members at Zimmer Biomet.