Jack Roche
The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc. (THG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Mike, this is Jack. Listen, I think as a company, we've worked hard over the last decade to try to diversify the firm, both geographically and from a line of business mix standpoint. As the weather challenges really we're pronounced in 2023, we're even more motivated to accelerate the property and liability, property and casualty mix, but do so in a very thoughtful manner.

So I think what -- way we'll lay this out for you over time is that it will be something north of incremental, but it won't be seismic, right. We still like our book of business, we have a great package approach in the core lines, much of our specialty business is kind of lower limits casualty business that's pretty distributed across some targeted favorable areas.

But because of the nature of the account size, it is -- the growth rates are more measured than they would be if you were going into brand-new categories or writing larger accounts. So I think what I would say to you is that we're going to continue to move our mix in the right direction. But I suspect what you'll see over the next 12 to 18 months is that our book mix, which has clearly been challenged by the weather patterns and hyperinflation will become a little less disadvantaged than maybe even advantaged as some of the liability trends present themselves. So we're trying to keep that in mind as we move our book mix forward.

Personal umbrella.

Yes. I would just say a couple of comments and then let Bryan speak very specifically to that. I think as we said in previous calls that I asked Dick and Bryan to accelerate our profit improvement really across the enterprise. And even though that we have really outstanding margins in the specialty business, like any book of business, there's opportunity for improvement, and there's areas where a little bit of addition by subtraction makes sense. So I have a lot of confidence in our ability to restore our growth. But Bryan can speak to you a little bit more about what we did in '23 and our trajectory for '24.

I'm sorry, you were talking about into Q1?

Yes. We -- so we usually don't disclose CATs intra-quarter. That said, we do believe, based on what we observed and I think what the industry has observed talking to others that these were a different set of storms that came upon us in the first quarter, not as prolonged in terms of the freeze, the temperature swings were a little bit less dramatic in terms of intense up and down, particularly against a winter storm, Elliott. And obviously, it didn't happen over a holiday long weekend when many of our customers were caught off guard timing-wise.

So even since last year, we believe that our book of business is much better positioned. Many large properties are now equipped with temperature and water sensors, and we have a robust customer notification protocol in place. So I think the way I would -- without specifically answering first quarter oriented CAT losses, I can tell you that these were different types of storms. And our -- the work we did, I think, will serve us well in the first quarter.

Grace, this is Jack. I think anybody that's in this business right now has a newfound respects for the changes in loss trends and the level of uncertainty that we have to adjust to. So the way I think about it, and I think the way we are operating is where we are trying to get double-digit growth and better in the businesses that not only are producing good margins, but that we have the most confidence in. And that is accentuated by where we think social inflation and litigation trends are likely to be least pronounced or impactful.

On the other end of the spectrum, as Bryan articulated with a couple of the programs when we have areas of the portfolio that are not meeting our hurdle rate and pose potentially an outsized exposure to those same trends, we're not afraid to take some pretty aggressive action. So Jeff guided you on some low-50s loss ratios overall, which I think kind of is where we prefer to stay in terms of our guidance and upper single-digit growth for next year. And frankly, if we see the environment prove beneficial, we'll push harder than that. But right now, based on our outlook, that feels like the right guidance.

Thank you, Grace.

 
Thank you, Paul. So 30.5% was the actual 2023 expense ratio. 30.8% was our original guidance for 2023. And if you normalize for the agent -- reduced agent comp and, to some degree, reduced employee variable compensation for essentially CATs during the year, you'd get right back to the 30.8%. So going forward, we've guided to 30.7%. And this is the first time that we've guided to only a 10-point reduction.

So I think what we're doing is asking for your patience for this one year to only go down 10 points -- 10 basis points and what we're really trying to do is we've had some expense pressures largely around and including doing everything we can on margin recovery. So we're focused on the loss ratio which is hundreds of basis points versus the 10 basis points, and we're focused overall on the combined ratio.

Yes, Paul, this is Jack. I really appreciate that question because we want to be able to express kind of where we are in that journey. And first off, I would start off by saying that we are really right on our targeted outcomes that we put in front of ourselves when we realized that we needed to show tremendous agility in terms of adjusting our pricing, looking at our CAT exposures more assertively. And so I couldn't be happier with where we are coming out of the year in terms of adjusting our growth, slowing down new business, particularly where we have the most concentrations and allowing the earned pricing to catch up and for us to start initiating our deductible approaches into the renewal book.

So I'll turn it over to Dick, but I have a lot of confidence that the Personal Lines team is not only performing well in this very dynamic environment, but has all the right levers and controls in place to optimize in '24.