Jack Sinclair
Sprouts Farmers Market, Inc. (SFM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. It's a great question. It's right to the heart of how we think about our business. When we reduce the square footage from 32,000 down to 23,000, we were very focused on losing not selling space, but actually cutting back on noncustomer-facing space, which allowed us to retain the SKU count that we had, apart from our vitamins and harbor department, which we took a few out in that department.

Going forward with the foraging team, we introduced an innovation center in our stores, which is allowing us to move really fast with items that the foraging team are finding. And we put it into the stores into the innovation center. So that's extra skews to what we would have had without the innovation center. What that then does gives us a couple of months to see whether the products sell, how the customers react to that section.

I've been delighted the way the customers have interfaced with that. It's creating this treasure hunt of new items coming into the store, customers looking at the items checking and really being curating their own assortment from that and the discernment of our customers in that space is something that I think we're -- what we're doing there is appealing to us.

So in terms of the planograms, as those sales happen or don't happen on the innovation center, the ones that are selling really well automatically flow into the original planograms, other products fall by the wayside. But effectively, we're kind of -- we've got a little bit of an increased SKU count because of the innovation center. As they get put in and come out the overall number, there are products coming out so that we can fit them into the planogram within the base fixture.

But that's so that's kind of part of how we've been operating this. And our business is all about broad assortment. It's really important that we don't compromise that assortment going forward. And so we're always kind of trying to get more into the stores, to be honest with you rather than less.

Hope that answers your question, John.

So the way we -- the $15 million isn't all about loyalty. There's some other things within that. But all of that is about investing in the business for the future, some infrastructure issues, some fundamental issues in investment in IT and the loyalty program that we're working on. We're very excited about it. The benefits for that will flow through in 2025. We clearly do have the numbers around the benefits of that. And as you see, we're probably not going to share that with you today.

Thanks, John.

Well, I think we've talked a lot about this over the last few quarters, Mark, is that we don't -- we try to have such a differentiated assortment that what the other guys are doing -- kind of we watch with interest. But what we found is that our niche, if you like, is something that we can really manage and be comfortable that we're leading the way in that niche, as I said in our remarks earlier.

What's happening with the other guys is, yes, they are bringing the odd keto thing and they are bringing the odd item in. But they can't for the target customers that we have, they simply can't have the breadth of assortment to allow them to kind of be relevant to that customer. And it's such a small proportion of the overall total. It doesn't give the -- there's no real benefit for the conventional guys to chase after this too hard because it would mean compromising some of their planograms and compromising what they're able to do.

And that's how we've observed this over the course of the last few quarters, that it's not something that we're seeing. It's certainly been a dialogue and we watch it, but it's not something that we're seeing as compromising our ability to be very relevant with our assortment to our target customers.
Thanks, Mark.

Yeah. Well, we're really pleased the way the Sprouts brand has been evolving and developing over the last few quarters. The focus is very much about playing to the attribute, the attributes that focus on our target customers. I've been pleased with how the seasonal programs come together, which has been a significant evolution and development for our Sprouts brand business. I've been pleased with the redesign that the team have put in place, which I think is working well for us, and we see pretty significant growth when we redesign items and make them look the way our modern Sprouts brand looks like. So I'm comfortable with that.

So -- and then the focus in terms of what will happen with our Sprouts brand going forward, we see -- we'll see it grow. We'll continue to launch products. The focus of our business isn't about the percentage of sales that is Sprouts brand. The focus of our business is, whether it be branded items or Sprouts branded items, how do we ensure that we're differentiated? So the products we're bringing to the marketplace, what I've been really pleased about on the Sprouts brand is, I think it's becoming -- if the right word is decommoditized. We're becoming less commodity-focused on the items we sell. So the everything that we're selling is differentiated. And that's the focus of the team and they're doing a terrific job.

Thanks.

I'll let Curtis go through some numbers in a second, Leah. But in terms of how we think it's such an important group of people is obvious in terms of our team members, and we've been working hard as we identified in our remarks. That, when we changed the bonus program, which has given people significant opportunities to earn more than they would have done otherwise, and we're encouraged by the reaction to that. As I said, when you get less -- when you don't have as much rotation than the team member workforce. It actually saves us a lot of money and builds up customer service as well.

So part of it is how do we retain people more effectively. Part of it is how we do the bonus program. And with specifics to California, with which clearly something we're watching. Most -- all of our people, we're north of the $20 thing that is so prevalent in the conversations around California. So we're in good shape there. We're getting strong applications, more the applications for jobs in our company is a kind of all-time high and the quality of the applications we're getting is we're very encouraged by as well. So we think we're in good shape with that. Having said that, there's some numbers associated with what's happened, which I'll get at Curtis to.
Thank you.

Yeah. It's early to give guidance for 2025, Rupesh. But having said that, we're very confident about our future and the investments we're making this year will certainly help us in 2025.

I think you said it with your last remarks there. I think it is a little bit early for us to get very buoyant about it. But we certainly believe that understanding our customers more and navigating our way through trying to drive a larger share of wallet of our target customers will provide growth for us in the future. And that's certainly why we're investing this money this year with the premise that it's going to come in terms of top line in 2025 and beyond.

And it's part of an ongoing process of how do we understand our customers better. If we're going to be a really great specialty grocer, we've got to understand that customer even better than we do at the moment. And that's the key work behind it. And we'll learn a lot this year from the work that we're putting in, in terms of what it will be able to do. And as we get towards the end of 2024, I think we'll be more able to have a conversation about what it's actually going to mean for us in '25 and '26.

Thanks.

Yeah. I've been really pleased with frozen foods, which is something we talked about a lot when we introduced a new format, that's performing really well, and I'm very pleased with the space that we invested in that. I'm very pleased with meals, how we're doing with prepared meals, and we put a lot of emphasis on that, in turn, new format stores, and that's flowing through well.

We're encouraged by, as I said earlier, with our innovation center in terms of what that's doing for our stores. So there's kind of 2 or 3 high points in it. One of the areas that we invested in that hasn't been as strong maybe is the plant-based meat investment. Plant-based dairy is doing very well, and our dairy business is doing well. But plant-based meat was a big trend, and that's probably not come through as well as we would have liked it to do.

But overall, in total, it's coming through the way we'd like it. I like the fact that we've got meat at front of the store in terms of what that's doing to drive center of plate. So I think, by and large, the things that we put in place have worked pretty well.

Thanks, Scott. Thank you.

Well, we brought in another partner. So there's -- we've got the -- Uber Eats is coming. Sorry, I didn't remember that for a minute. We brought Uber Eats very recently into the business. So that will add to it. What I'm very encouraged about is how the omnichannel process that we're going through. It's really encouraging that when we get the kind of growth that we're getting in an e-comm environment because customers wouldn't be navigating to our assortment if there wasn't something differentiated in it. And the fact that we're doing so well in e-com gives me a lot of encouragement about the work that the merchants and the foraging team are doing in terms of bringing products to the marketplace.

In terms of going forward, it will be, what it will be. The customer is going to take us where they want to take us. We're giving them now the option. They can do Doordash, they can do Uber Eats and Instacart have been great partners for us as well. So we're very, very pleased with the partnerships we've got with all three of the e-com providers. So going forward, it will be what it's going to be, but it's within the guidance that Curtis talked. I was wondering if you want to build on that?

Well, as we've talked a lot about in projects, there's a lot of volatility in pricing, and it's difficult to kind of be very definitive about exactly what's happened from one week to the next, never mind one year to the next on that. Our produce business has been very -- we've been really pleased with organic produce, and that's something that we can -- we kind of own the mix that we have in organic of our total produce business is very different to how you would see in a conventional grocer or even in Walmart or club channel.

We're seeing a really strong organic business. And that's where pricing -- we think we've got really good long-term relationships with the vendor base and inorganic produce, and I think we're in a strong place to kind of manage the ups and downs effectively in terms of what happens to the volatility of prices. I'm not sure if I'm answering your question, but certainly, organic produce and the differentiation of price that we have in organic produce, we think stands us in good stead going forward.
And we're doing a lot of work to improve the quality and freshness of our produce, both in terms of investment in physical distribution and investment in our systems and our replenishment systems and our forecasting systems to make sure that we get even better in terms of freshness for our customers. So again, it's probably too volatile for us to give a definitive kind of answer to your question there.

Thanks.

And there remains a volatility in commodity pricing. I think if you look at things like cocoa and sugar. And people that are saying that those prices are going up pretty dramatically. And I think that will flow -- maybe flow through. Other commodities are going in the opposite direction. But certainly, the one difference with our business in center store, which is again, it's not really a Sprouts expression center store, but for our nonperishable business, we have got a lot of differentiation in what we sell, and it's very unlikely that a lot of the drivers for commodities that are hitting the big CPG items being sold in conventional will affect us one way or the other. We've kind of managed to navigate our way through that without being dramatically affected by some of those swings and roundabouts.

We've opened four this year. One is that we -- when I think about it, we just opened a really nice store, which we're very pleased within Cuddy in Los Angeles. We've got a really nice store in Miami. So we're kind of opening stores all over the country at the moment, in Maryland. And so it's actually quite exciting to see us building the Sprouts brand from sea to shining sea.

Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks everyone for spending some time with us this afternoon. We appreciate your interest in our company, and we look forward to bringing you up to date through the year as our business evolves. Thanks ever so much.