Jacob Thaysen
Illumina, Inc. (ILMN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Doug. And, no, that was nice one question there. So let me start by saying that we've been very pleased with the pickup of the 25B since the launch in late November. In fact, it's did kind of performed all our expectations and have been very received with their customers. So we continue to expect that this will continue to really drive X performance, but also, of course, it's completely now unleashed the full performance of the instrument, and thereby, we also expect that the 25B -- the availability of the 25B will have more customers to jump on to the X wagon here. I think we are seeing customers being able to load it. Of course, many of them are still doing validation work, but we are seeing that they have a big enough projects to load the closeout.

All right. Thanks for that, Puneet. And let me start by the latter part of this question about GRAIL, and then I'll have Joydeep chime in on our expectations here on consumables growth. But as I mentioned, you know, we are very pleased with the announcement that we made here in December that we are now divesting GRAIL for sure and I'm actually very pleased with the progress so far. We have our advisers really moving ahead and now in connection and in conversations with rural parties. We are continuing to run a dual track, of course, can be a capital markets initiative or it can be a transaction.

And so we still expect to be on track with the timeline we were previously talking about that we would have all the terms finalized by end of June. So we are -- at this point, we are not talking about -- since we are expecting to finish up with GRAIL this year, we're not having any guidance on the expenditure for GRAIL this year.

Yes. Yes, so let's start with the GRAIL question. And obviously, we'd like to provide as much information to all of you as possible. Right now, as you say, the filing is confidential. And I don't think it will be public available before very late in Q1 maybe dipping into Q2 here. So I think that's where we are at this. But as soon as it's available, we'll make sure you know.

Yes. Of course, it's a relevant hypothesis to come in with. What we have seen is that most of our clinical customers are using the opportunity with the lower cost of X to actually expand the depth of sequencing providing bigger panels and so on. So what we're seeing is that most of the current panels continue to run on the NovaSeq 6000 and thereby continue to also drive volume there. And then they are right now validating many of the new assays or the new assays that might not have been possible in the 6000 to trust and so on to be on the X. So we're quite encouraged about that. We've also seen several of our specialty labs customer now order tens of NovaSeq X. So I'm encouraged that we will see a lot of volume here going forward on this.

Yes, thank you. You're right that we continue to believe that there's a lot of innovation that is required there by investment into R&D in order to drive the whole NGS ecosystem forward. We -- as I said, one of the things -- what I said previously, is one of the things that I was really excited about is the pipeline of innovation that we have in running right now and thereby, also there will be a lot of innovation coming out from Illumina over the next period of time here.

And we continue to believe that we are in the early stages of the whole opportunities here in NDS, but even also multiomics and thereby, we continue to make investment into that. You're also right that there has been an increase in R&D, and we're certainly looking to change that trajectory over time. We still believe that a high level of investment is required, but you will see here over the next years that the percentage spending R&D versus revenue will start to come down.

Yes, I think, I mean, we certainly see a lot of our high-end customers, the high-volume customers that started buying one or two NovaSeq X is starting to consider purchasing more instruments. So they're using the first few X to validate assays on. And then they want to expand into to -- use the additional Xs to actually run in production, but very few customers have still gone into production mode. And thereby, there is a real big opportunity in front of us. I think that less than half of our high-volume customers have purchased X so far.

So I think there's still a lot of opportunities there. But I've also mentioned some of the high-volume customers that have purchased one or two have now put orders in for 10 instruments. So I think we're still in the very early stages, and there should be a lot of opportunities here, both in '24 and '25 to drive more placements.

Yes. Thanks, Dave. And of course, we're tracking, of course, everything that is happening out in the market and we take our competition very seriously. But I think you've also heard me on the multiomics place. I think you've heard me speak multiple times about multiomics. So we have an intention also to be in that space. I think we were not talking about moving forward as a starting point with proteomics here with our relationships with Stemologic. But I think you can see that -- actually, we believe there is many more modalities that can be available on the instrument. So I think the -- where we -- where Illumina is doing is that we will go out and provide that insight when we're ready to put something in the market and speak less about it when it's more in the future.

Secondly, we feel with the NovaSeq X where we come out with a very attractive price point for a lot of different applications and not only a very few ones. So I think we feel that we have a very attractive solution. But I also remind you that it's not only the cost per sequencing -- that anymore, that is relevant, but also you need to look at the whole cost of the whole workflow, how many manual steps you have, how much waste you are, instrument spending and so on. So I think if you dig into the details, you will actually realize that Illumina has a very attractive and very differentiated platform.

Yes. So the tax rate, again, is something that should be -- you should expect to be relatively constant as you go into -- and again, for core Illumina into 2024. And this is, again, core Illumina, right? We are not giving guidance this year yet on the consolidated number. In terms of the operating margin cadence, again, that is typically that does go up as the gross margins tend to go up as we move into greater volume through the year. In terms of operating margin, you will see a decrease in potentially in Q2 as the merit and the other inflation-related aspects come into play. But then you will see after that, a quarter-on-quarter increase as we move into the rest of the year.

And then, of course, I think on the -- sorry, just one other thing, right? I know there's been some movement in terms of the R&D capitalization piece, but that is something we're monitoring very carefully. It is past the house, but it still needs to get through the Senate and the President signing. If we get that, you can expect a further improvement in the tax rate, right? But we are not building that into our assumptions at this point.

Yes. Thanks for the question. So again, to remind everyone, the approach that Illumina has is quite unique. It's a whole genome-based MRD assay. It is initially a tumor-informed assay, but it does have the potential with more data and behind it to at some point, move into a tumor naive, right? In terms of being capable of being IBD, of course, as you know, we have invested very heavily in platforms and technologies and infrastructure that allow us to move assays to BIBD when the time is right, right? So right now, the agreement we have with pharma has been mainly to explore this in various forms. But we can go move into IBD when the time is right.

Yes. If I -- when I'm coming into the company here, Patrick, and looking into pricing and how we are thinking about pricing going forward. First, I will say that Illumina is presenting a premium product and thereby, I think also our customers are seeing that we can command premium pricing in the industry. But I think more importantly is that only talking about cost per gigabase is probably too simplistic for most of our customers. They are more interested in the cost for the whole for sample to insight for the whole workflows. And that is, of course, including sample automation, but probably even more importantly, informatics, which is also a key cost driver for our customers.

So really with the Dragon platform and what we have in our comprehensive informatics offering, we actually can provide the customer be a very cost-attractive solution. So therefore, the thing about just talking cost per gigabase is kind of the -- maybe the old way of looking at it in the future way we look at a little more comprehensive. So I feel really good about that. where we are. And that said, we will now with -- in the mid throughput with the XLEAP-SBS chemistry be available. We are we are coming out with a more attractive pricing, quality and more capacity on our 1K and 2K instrument. So I'm really excited about that and again, driving elasticity based on that new price point. So you will see us really move the nuts on many more elements than just one pricing element.

So thanks, Dan. And I think you've done more math than that than we have at this point since it's still way too early in -- way early innings here to start to look at pull-through from the X. So we haven't really done that math as of yet. And we will provide that math when we think we are more in a stable situation where it makes sense. Any other comments on that, Joydeep?

Yes. No, I think that's a good question, something also. I really was eager to understand better coming into Illumina. As you know, I have a background in IBD and I have a lot of passion for cancer diagnostic, but really fighting cancer. And I think how we think about it, of course, that we serve a lot of clinical customers out there that is using the Illumina ecosystem and build companies on top of that, primarily into the LDT space.

And then we have our own offerings in other LDT, but in all places also IBD on especially the TSO 500 and the NIPT and other places where -- and if you look into our TSO 500 business, it's been growing really fast over the last period of time. And it's more than $100 million now, and we expect to have a high double-digit growth also into this year, and we don't see any end to that right now.

So I'm really bullish around where we can bring that. And we are, of course, looking into a strategic review right now on how does that fit into the overall core business strategy. But clearly, we would also like to play in that space going forward.

It wasn't another -- was there a second part of that question?

Yes. Okay. So I think the second part was the impact of the regulation. I mean, of course, we're monitoring that very, very deeply right now. And there's, of course, again, a conversation with our customers and be helping some customers make sure they are ready for that. Our -- the larger customers can, of course, go through a single-site PMA which help them. But there's also a change maybe in the leveling of the different -- so some of the Class III products are considered being brought down to Class II products right now. It's still kind of on the table for consideration.

But if that happens, that will certainly also reduce the requirement for getting through clinical trials and so on. So I think there's still a lot of moving elements. But what I can tell you is that I think Illumina is very well positioned to support the markets going forward, almost independent on where FDA is landing on this one.

You can continue.

I think we are good.
