James DeVries
ADT, Inc. (ADT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, George. It's Jim. Thanks for the question. I have a couple of comments to just sort of set the pins on solar and then I'll ask Jeff to add some comments as well. As you know, we announced the restructuring and strategic review in Q3. And then in late January, announced the decision to exit the solar business, all wind-down activities are underway.
So head count reductions were now less than 500 employees in solar, will be less than 250 by the end of the quarter. We're focused on finishing existing jobs, installing the pipeline. We've shut off marketing investments, shut off new sales. We're engaged in wind-down activities like selling the inventory and the trucks, subleasing the real estate. And we've got a governance structure around the solar wind down to help navigate costs and time line. And Jeff, if you want to comment some on the costs and the time?
Yes, George, it's Jim. I'll take a shot at that. The -- so as you know, we launched the partnership in earnest in March of '23. We had about 6,000 sales during the year. We're now in 13 states. That represents about 40% of State Farm policies in force. So we've got very good overlap. One of the things that I've shared before is each subsequent month is better than the one prior and that continues to be the case. I think we were about 1,600 new sales in January of '24. About 2/3 of the systems include an upsell, so we feel great about that. Customer satisfaction is very high at about 97%, 98% and we're working well with State Farm.

We're going to pilot a couple of alternatives in 4 different states. Two of those states will be a DIY offering, George. And in 2 of those states, it will be a water-led offer that's effectively marketed to State Farm customers who have had a water claim in the past. So we're excited to test a couple of new ideas and continue to penetrate in the 13 states where we exist already.

Yes. Great question, Toni. I would say there are a handful of opportunities that we're super excited about. AI, the work that we're doing in digital, the comment that you made about virtual, we're expanding virtual support beyond service even to installation add-ons for existing customers. We've had pretty substantial investment in our technology and I would say the -- that those investments will see really a high watermark in 2024.
Much of the improvement on the IT spend, we'll start to see in '25 and beyond. And we'll also see less IT expense in '25 and beyond. The margin improvement related to virtual is baked into the 2024 guide.

Anything else, Jeff?

Yes. It's still smallish for us, Toni but I think DIY for us will be an opportunity for growth going forward. The -- there's a lot of growth here. It's not where the profit pools are compared to DIFM but when you look at DIY through the lens of customer lifetime value, I think it becomes particularly interesting to us. So we have a small business, we're going to lean -- small DIY business, we're going to lean into this business more assertively in 2024 and that's inclusive of the pilots that you just mentioned related to State Farm.

Yes. We're -- it's going well with Google, Ashish. Both organizations continue to work together on everything from quality testing to supply chain to customer experience. The products have strong customer appeal. We're enjoying the benefits of increased installation revenue at the time of the install. And I think I may have mentioned this last quarter, in the year prior to the Google partnership, 23% of our new customers had 10-plus devices.

And in 2023, that figure is 57%. So that's been a very important influence on improving our SAC efficiency and because customers who invest more at the time of installation also retain better. Our 4-year retention rates for customers with 10-plus devices is about 50% better than those with fewer than 10 devices. So it's going well. Google products, customers who have Google products have a higher NPS, higher product satisfaction, more positive comments on functionality, dependability, even aesthetics. So we're continuing to feel good about the Google partnership. It's going really well.

Sure. Thanks for the question. I'll tag team with Jeff on it. In terms of economics, the -- as we get more traction with State Farm, it's a different model than our traditional DIFM model and while the IRRs are approximately the same, maybe even a little bit higher, the RMR will come in lighter. Our average RMR for a State Farm customer is in the zone of $30. And the cost to acquire that customer because there's very little marketing expense and very little sales expense also comes in much lower. So it will have the effect of improving SAC efficiency on a per unit basis but RMRs will be lighter.
Anything to add, Jeff?

Yes, you bet Ronan. I'd say -- I'd describe our capital allocation policy as returns-based and opportunistic. And there are 4 categories, you just essentially outlined. The first is organic growth, SAC, IRRs in the 20s. Secondly, bulk account purchases or M&A in our core. Thirdly, return of capital to shareholders, dividends, stock buyback and then lastly, paying down debt is still a priority for us.

We're holding to our commitment to be at 3x leverage or lower by year-end. So the critical point is, we're going to do -- we'll do the math, we'll do the analysis. And with a returns-based mindset and eye towards maximizing shareholder return, we'll apply the capital against those 4 priorities.

Thank you, operator and thanks, everyone, for taking the time to join us today. As you heard, ADT delivered solid results in our core, invested for the future, reshaped our portfolio and meaningfully improved our capital structure. We've got good momentum in the business, great catalysts for growth and we're looking forward to a strong 2024. I'd like to extend my appreciation to our ADT employees and dealer partners for an outstanding quarter and year. Our results are a direct reflection of your efforts. So thanks again, everybody and have a great day.