James Lico
Fortive Corp (FTV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Steve, it's Jim. I think, number one; I would differentiate Fluke and Tek here. I think we certainly saw, we saw mid-single-digit growth at Fluke in the quarter. We saw growth in orders, point of sales in the mid-single digit around the world. So I think we're seeing the real benefits of the number of transformation things that we've done from an innovation perspective, also with some of the M&A work we've done and in good shape. And I would say Tek, Tek was low single digits in the quarter but quite frankly, off a 20% growth comp in Q4 '22. So still saw some good performance there. We felt really good about the quarter they produced as well.

And certainly, the year that Tektronix had is unprecedented a record year, as we said in the prepared remarks. So as we go into the next year, I think it's -- I think, more of the same at Fluke. We've really seen some resilience and durability activity that we've talked a lot about over the years, playing out there. We probably have a quarter. They're about their fifth quarter of negative bookings. And obviously, we've been working off backlog there. And we would anticipate that book-to-bill there turns positive and probably Q2. So we feel good. North America was really good for tech, where a little bit of slowing that we saw within China as we talked a little bit about our China growth in total and Chuck's prepared remarks. But obviously, part of that Tek's one of our bigger businesses in China. Part of that story is the Tektronix there. So I'll pause there and you've got a follow-up, I'll certainly cover.

Yes. Nigel, I would just add, we called out in the slide materials that Invetech was a headwind in the quarter for health care to the tune of about 280 basis points. That's probably the largest year-over-year headwind that Invetech has seen. I wouldn't expect the size of that to continue but probably still in the 1% to 2% [indiscernible] continued to be in health care throughout 2024. But that's now reflected in PT.

Well Nigel, I would say, number one, yes, we're definitely fully through it. So you saw the benefit of that. I think as we said in the prepared remarks, consumables in North America were up about 7%. Consumables around the world, we're up about 4%. So good performance there. We think mid-single-digit guide for ASP for the full year is a good number. Certainly opportunity to go and on the margin front which we're going after. We were just with the team last week. We actually had them with, we had our Board meeting there and we have the team there for an operating review, highlighting the level of innovation. I talked about in the prepared remarks. We now have a new set of consumables around steam sterilization that are going to now be in the U.S. and Asia that are certified.

So a number of opportunities here to continue to improve the growth. Those are obviously all in Consumables which obviously have higher fall-through. So you like the guide here overall held up 125 basis points in margin expansion mid-single-digit growth. We think that's a great launch point. It certainly certifies I think a lot of the things we've been saying about the direct North American strategy and certainly more broadly around the strategy at ASP and how health will just be a real durable grower for Fortive in '24.

Yes, a couple of things. I think when you look at our history in terms of double-digit EPS growth and the compounding free cash flow, I think, it's not an enormously to get to that $450 million. That's why we put those numbers out there a year ago and we reiterated them in the guide and on the presentation. So we obviously feel good long way away, a lot can happen but we feel good about it. I think relative to the M&A market; we just closed a quarter where we did basically 5 deals -- between including kind of closing in the early part of January. So it's across the board in every segment, a variety of different sources from private equity to private ownership, founder-led companies good breadth across a number of our workflows.

So we feel really good about the M&A environment and we just demonstrated really good progress against the M&A environment. EA is starting off really well. And where we start -- we now think that's going to be accretive in the year, only right after closing it. So we've seen really good things there. So, I would say the -- what we've done, we're really proud of that work, good work that set us up well back to your comment about '25 would the EA and those other deals are going to be helpful in '25 for sure. And quite frankly, when you look at the environment that we're in right now, probably a little bit better. Certainly, we've demonstrated that and we want to continue to, as always, as you know, Julian, we're always busy and we're excited about the opportunities that are in front of us but we're also incredibly excited about the teams that have just joined Fortive.

We'll be in the mid-single-digit range. There's probably a hint of catch-up from Q3 there but not a lot of inventory build we would expect it to be mid-single digit for them across the board. And obviously, I wouldn't want to be a predictor of 7% every quarter. But as we said, we validated the strategy, I think, in Q4 with what we want to do as I mentioned, with the team last week, they're incredibly optimistic about where they stand today and where they stand for the year and in the future years as well. So I think we're in a good place.

Yes. We, first of all, we closed the first week of January; we're off to a good start. 100-day plan is scheduled. We've got our [indiscernible] room set up with integration. Our teams are really excited about the work we can do together. As you remember, Jeff, when we announced the deal, we said we'd have the opportunity to take our big Tektronix sales force and sell those solutions. We started our annual sales kick-off over the last couple of weeks. A lot of excitement about that. Relative to, specifically to your question, December was a record order month for the business. So they ended the year strong and there's a tremendous amount of growth opportunities there, in front of us. They've got a good backlog situation.

So we feel good. We feel good about the revenue base for the year and what that can grow. Obviously, it won't be in our core but until '25 but we feel good about the growth. Relative to we now think this is probably a mid-single-digit ROIC in '24 which is up from the original thesis around the deal. So we're already ahead of the game. Growth should be good. And we think the business is probably in the $190 million to $195 million -- $195 million range, that's probably where it will be for the year. So. So we're in a really good place with the business. It's a good team. As I mentioned before and it's going to, that's why I think when you step back and look at the deals we did, the previous question, we feel good about the year. 6% to 8% overall growth for the year stands up, obviously, EA being one of the big parts of that but the other acquisition is adding some as well.

It's in the $20 million range of revenue breakeven. So it's, we'll look at a number of options. I think we've got, there are buyers out there for sure. The team is working on some different things. So the other part of that business is called [indiscernible] motion. So as you can imagine, it really was originally in our Sensing and Automation businesses. It's really -- it helps Life Science and customers but it's but like our other Sensing businesses, quite frankly, it has more of an industrial aspect to, from an OEM perspective. That business has done pretty well over the last few years. So we'll anticipate keeping that as part of the portfolio but we're going to look for options on the other time.

Yes. I think to the second part of your question, mid-single-digit POS growth at Fluke around the world in the fourth quarter. So, good solid growth. Down from the double digit we've seen for a while. But still, I think that would be, that we take that number pretty solidly. A little bit of destocking at Tek in the U.S. Single-digit millions but a little bit and some in China, maybe more broadly. I would say that that's, we now think China is likely to probably not grow in the year that's embedded in our guide and some of that is going to be just, I would say, less destocking than it is just conservativeness on the part of the Chinese distributor and Chinese channel partners to sort of see how the macro evolves out there over the year. But again, that's embedded in our guidance.

Probably down low single for the year. So that would be our anticipation at this point. A couple of things there. Just starting what we've seen thus far is customers -- a little bit more conservative, as I mentioned. As you know, Deane, we've talked about this over the years. You really don't know China until you see March, you get out, you get to after the Chinese New Year, see how channel partners and customers are going to unfold for the year. We've seen more conservativeness up to this point, in the year. So our anticipation is that the year sort of progresses. We had a really tough comp in the first quarter in China. We had great growth in China last year in the first quarter but we would anticipate for the full year that China would probably be down about low single digit.

Yes. I mean if they came with about a sales force of roughly 40 folks. We 10x that with Tektronix. We have the ability to sell that solution across the board. The teams are working through their cross-selling strategies. And one of the things we said when we announced the deal was that we thought a real opportunity primarily outside of Europe to really accelerate the business through the addition of the Tektronix sales force. So yes, so as Chuck mentioned, already a very profitable company. They had great growth too; they're a good growth company, a great growth company. And even with their size, they had growth at Tektronix and PT. So we're excited about that opportunity. Obviously, that's not the core for the year. That'll be in '25. So far, we really, we're really excited about the business joining Fortive.

Why don't I take the first part of that. Yes, Fluke help will probably be in the mid-single-digit range for the year, so pretty close to the segment growth, maybe a little bit less in the first quarter and a little bit better, or first half and a little bit more in the second half. So but they are through some of the things that you described as well.

Yes. And I would just add the proof points. Our gross margin expansion over the last several years has been very consistent. I think that speaks to our ability to manage the situation, not just on the price side but on the cost side and our working capital continues to get better and as we noted, as a percent of sales. So we're doing that while not having to have significant increases in working capital. In fact, our working capital is getting better. So we, I think what we'll see this year Andy, just to add on to that is that our teams have done a really nice job. We were just with all of our teams, a couple of weeks ago and they're doing a really nice job on design savings as well. So not only on the negotiated savings but also looking at design, what we call our value engineering effort. And our value, I think we'll have a, right now, our plans for value engineering would be, our cost reductions out of value engineering will be at a record in '24 when we deliver on that through the year.

So a number of things we're doing to continue to stay ahead of price cost knowing that probably price wasn't going to be able to stay at those levels that we had over the last few years. We've always been a good price company. So we'll continue to get our fair share. But I think what we're also trying to do is really push our teams hard on the opportunities on the cost side as well.

Maybe just to give you a little bit. I think we were, we anticipated, if I remember correctly in the first year, $0.10 of accretion we ended up with $0.12 of accretion. So in the first year, we delivered on the accretion side. As Chuck mentioned, we're incredibly happy with these businesses, maybe just to take your point. You could see and that's why we really put them on the chart. When you look at the growth rates in the businesses, they're very strong. proVation was already a very high-margin business. One of the highest in Fortive already. ServiceChannel, obviously, was a breakeven business. So there were some concern, could we get that business into the sort of accretive margin rate that we see that's so strong and in Fortive and obviously in IOS and we're obviously there on the Fortive side and they're approaching the IOS side.

So we feel really good in that regard. And the other part of it, we're trying to really make a point in that -- in the prepared remarks, Scott. I know you understand this but it's really how FBS has really made a difference here. You see the net dollar retention, where that's at, now, the ARR growth. The really FBS has really made it both teams, really embraced FBS on the growth and innovation front. They've done a nice job in that in a short period of time. And that's where, that's how you see the net dollar retention numbers which are obviously extremely good and the business is well positioned for the future. And to your point, also, they don't stop at 10% rights, right? They're going to continue. And if you've got 110% to a 112% plus net dollar retention margins in the structure and growing at this rate? Obviously, the [indiscernible] are going to go above 10% in the out years.

I would say, Scott, embedded in the PT core growth outlook for Q1, there's about a 1% headwind to core growth in PT due to Invetech.

Yes. We feel really good about it, Rob. I think when you look at not only maybe starting with '23, we had really good growth in '23. We'll have high single-digit software growth in '24. So when we look at the ARR numbers, they're good. Obviously, we're just talking about ServiceChannel and proVation in the previous question. But I think across the board, [indiscernible] going to have high single-digit growth. So we feel good about where it's at. I think it's a testament to the strength of how FBS is really adding value and it's a testament to those businesses. and the work they're doing. We didn't talk a lot about AI but we'll start to see as we get into late '24 and '25, so some of our Data Analytics and AI solutions are also going to help the growth rates there.

So we're in a very good place. And I think the strategy is playing out the way we anticipated which is those businesses would have more durable, higher growth rates and ultimately, that would benefit Fortive not only on the growth side but on the margin front. We certainly saw that in '23, you absolutely see that with our double-digit EPS kind of numbers that we'll show in '24.

Yes. Well, in Sensing, we're about 6 quarters of negative order rates. So we don't anticipate to see the overall over rate start to change the book-to-bill there probably in and around 1, in the second half, for sure, probably starting in sometime in the second quarter. So we start to see things move. We didn't talk about it but number, maybe more broadly about Sensing. One of the things we saw in the fourth quarter was rather than get 12-month blanket orders which we would typically get with OEMs. We got 3-month [indiscernible] orders. So we will see that those orders pick up probably in the second half. So that's the state of the world. Relative to the semi index and where it's at, we're starting to see the green shoots of customers that are starting to talk about orders and our businesses that are maybe in the earlier stages there, a little bit of Setra, a little bit in our KEITHLEY business at Tektronix. they're starting to see customers talking about the second half of this year.

So, we would -- I would think that just overall, we'll start to see some things. We're not anticipating a big step up there. We'll let the [indiscernible] patterns determine that. But we do anticipate at least seeing some of that turn in the second half of the year.

For Tektronix, we think business will be about low single digits for the year. So just from a revenue perspective, we've had 5 quarters of negative orders there. We'd probably see that in the first quarter. We'll start to see things turn. The book-to-bill starts to turn in and around the second quarter there; so just to kind of give you a sense. And that's -- we've had aerospace and defense has been good. It continues to be good. but it's mostly broadly around electronics and things like that. So some semiconductor customers as well. So and the comments I made around Sensing, semi, I also made a comment about KEITHLEY which is the most of the exposure we have in Tektronix relative the semiconductor. So we think the business is a good place. Obviously, low single digits in the fourth quarter against a 20% comp from a year prior. So still in a good place, record year for Tektronix from a revenue perspective. But probably a quarter or 2 here of absorbing, continuing to absorb some of the market dynamics we described and but the business is in a good shape and exit rate into '25 probably in a good place.

Well, I think in fourth quarter, probably 0.85, probably but we're always below 1 in the fourth quarter.

Well, I think when you look at our track record over 4 years and what we try to do is not take any one particular year because when you average them out, when we're talking about the out years here, we're talking about the average, right? And when you look at the average, they're not too different future versus prior history. So I think what passes a bit pull-off here. If you look at the success we've had over the last 4 years relative to EPS growth and you sort of fast forward, we continue to use our free cash flow. Obviously, we had interest expense a little higher last year than we anticipated which is why that number would single digit will delever through the year, as you know. So that has some improvements as well.

But I think at the end of the day, we're in a very good place relative to those targets and I think this reflects it. So, there's obviously the macro is always a geopolitical situation. It's probably always one of those things you think about but that's why we said in the prepared remarks, that we've got some scenarios to continue to be agile and dynamic based on what the economic situation looks like it's the best way to say it. So Software and Healthcare is going to continue to compound at higher rates of growth and higher rates of margin expansion and that's going to continue to mix up the portfolio, particularly if you take a longer period of time, like in 2018. So I would say those are the dynamics. You've got to see continue to see those businesses continue to get better, like they will this year, like they've been doing and then continue to do the things that we've been doing relative to productivity and innovation that will continue to help us work through the various markets, secular drivers that we've attached ourselves to broaden the workflow.

And I think the last thing I'd say Andrew, is the 5 deals that we did over the last 30 or 3 months or so, they all have an opportunity to continue to accelerate our compounding. They're all attached to good growth drivers. They're additive growth year and, from a margin perspective, from a bolt-on standpoint, they're all making their associated businesses better over time. And when you take a few years out, they're going to become a bigger part of that. So some of them are small. But if you take a 2-year or 3-year out period, you're in a, they'll be additive as well. So and then as I said, the M&A environment is still, looks like it continues to get better here and we're excited about that.

Joe, I would just maybe just add on is the reason why we highlighted these two companies two years out is because when we bought the companies, there were some skeptics, quite frankly, people didn't think we could get ServiceChannel margins into the 20s as quickly as we did. People didn't think that proVation would grow during COVID the way it did. So yes, I wouldn't necessarily say [indiscernible] these were slammed up because there were some doubters out there. And I think what we tried to do in, with two years in, it suggests, or to demonstrate that that, hey, we're exactly where we thought we were in case we're ahead of the game. We were ahead of the game first year out, as I mentioned in the previous call relative to EPS. So these businesses are in good shape.

And as we highlighted back in May, these are, this is consistent with a number of the other deals and that's really what you see in '24 is the portfolio durability based on the success of those deals. So I would just add that into the broader the broader view of M&A and how it's continuing to add ROIC continue to get better and it's adding more durability and capability of the organization.

Well, I would say, certainly, hardware deals is something we've been doing for 20 years in there's, to use your muscle framework. There's a lot of muscle around that. You saw that in, even with some of the COVID challenges in ASP, our continued ability to do things like really improve the free cash returns on the business because of working capital. So I would certainly say that that's, those are things that we've done for a long time. But I think and this is really one of the reasons why we put it on the slide, is that we've really built tremendous capability around software, FBS for Software. And we didn't talk about it but we've now got an FBS suite of AI tools which are really helping drive innovation drive commercial activities for the Software broadly but also for the Software businesses.

So we've really, I'm really proud. I said it in the prepared remarks around how the FBS in and of itself is getting better. And that really means more broadly. It's really, it is, I think what we're really proud of is the fact that if you look at the Fortive's portfolio today, FBS needs as much to a Software business or a Healthcare business or a Traditional Industrial business. FBS may mean different tools. It may mean different applications but the rigor and discipline is exactly the same.

I think when you look at and I'll take the hardware business here. When you look at the hardware businesses, there's not a big inflection point as we go through the year. So probably I would say we don't see a big volume, we don't need a big volume inflection as we go through the year simply because of that. I would say, secondly, we're not really expecting a lot of restocking here. So I would say there's probably some volume upside to restocking if we were to see that. But I would say we're certainly not counting on that; and if it was probably more a second half dynamic.

Thanks, Kristina and thanks, everyone, for taking the time today. I know it's a busy day for all of you. Hopefully, what you heard today was our really the benefits of the work we've been doing for several years, both in '23 and how we anticipate '24 to play out. So we're, we feel very, very comfortable with where we stand today. Lots going on in the world, as many of you know but I think how we built constructed the portfolio over the last several years, post-Vontier, is we feel and expect to have a good setup for this year.

We're certainly around for any questions. We want to thank everyone, for your support for '23. We know we'll probably see a lot of you out on the road here over the next few weeks. We look forward to that. And obviously, our team is available for questions and follow-up and then over the next several days. So, thanks. Have a great day. Have a great earnings season and we'll see you on the road.