James Hagedorn
The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company (SMG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. So the volume growth across the business is flat. So that's ‑‑ if you look at ‑‑ and, I would put it as a big question. when I put risk out there, I just ‑‑ I think what I said is that we're going to have to wait and see what happens when the global events and the consumer shows up.

I think, John, you kind of hit it right, which is, we've been losing altitude. That's ‑‑ I've told a lot of people, if you can just stop the decent and gain a little altitude, that's an heroic move. So ‑‑ but if you look at, like, footsteps, and I think these are kind of average numbers that I'm hearing from sales, decline at DIY retail, it was called about 12%, 13% is what I think we are viewing as kind of an average across the Board.

So, I think what we're saying is that stays the same. Now, what's different that's positive? This is sort of positive back to we maintain altitude. Okay? Retailers are very focused on lawn and garden as a category. I think that and kind of cleaning, I don't know, there's a couple of other kind of, not super expensive categories that retailers are saying that's where they're going to be putting all their efforts.

So there's a ton of work happening at the retail level to drive consumers into the store for the spring. I view that as a ‑‑ I personally have a hard time with all the data, and I think I'm pretty current on it. But this issue of elasticity within the lawn and the seed category, I think, is real.

Now, it's hard when somebody shows you here's sales, here's pricing, but within that you have weather and a lot of other factors, a consumer that's apprehensive. So I'm not sure I believe anything that people are telling me, but I think directionally elasticity is an issue. We have adjusted pricing on seed and first, and we're seeing really good results since we did that.

So, again, I put this as a positive in order to sort of argue that we're ‑‑ we think we can level this thing. if that's a big victory. I don't want to hand it over yet. In addition, the focus that we're going to put on it, we made a change in marketing. We spent a lot of time on our consumers, who they are, where's the power. And, our core consumer is the healthiest consumer out there. These are generally college educated, homeowners, they've got more savings, they've got more money.

I think everybody's sort of excess savings from COVID is, expiring, and I think we and the retailers are looking at that as it says people will spend more time at home doing home projects. I think that's a positive for us. I don't know if I'm missing anything on level in the core business, and that's where we start.

And, again, after a 13% reduction in footsteps in the front door out of many of our major retailers, okay, then it goes to why do you think it can grow? And we not only knew we had this elasticity, but we understand the pressure retailers are to bring people into lawn and garden. And some of them challenged us to sort of contribute to the cause.

And, at a time where we're trying to rebuild our margins, I was not exactly open minded to that when Salesforce and Mike Lukmeier came to me on this. And, it's like in exchange for what? the performance of our business, and this is a real, compliment to our Salesforce is, in a very challenging year, maybe a couple of years, our Salesforce and our ability to execute in the store, and what that builds in the relationships is very powerful.

And so when the retailers are saying we need sort of contributions to help with this cause, in exchange, we'll give you listings you don't have, don't have; promotions that we gave to other people will go to you. And we size that out. It's worth doing.

Now, we traded about a third of our, what would have been, acceleration of margin improvement for this. But I personally think very much worth it. And that gets you into, so the entire gain is in listings we didn't have before, priced out at volumes that were what they were with other people the year before. Promotions that didn't go to us went to other people, priced at exactly what they were at last year. And that's how we got to these numbers.

I think that, if we had a big debate, and we could have it if other people want to talk about it, because it's, I would say gross margin and our revenue numbers are probably the ones that are most interesting as we've been prepping for this call. We feel, and I think Nate and Josh, who are here feel very confident in the sales.

Josh, you want to talk about it at all?

But we all, as we prep for this call, said what's the big risk? Consumers don't show. I don't know how big that risk is coming forward. I think that a lot of people are writing about how people have spent sort of their COVID excess savings, where that's at, what that people will be travelling, a little less and spending more time at home. We think that's true, and we think there was a significant reduction in footsteps last year.

Do we think it's going to get worse? Look, this is probably where there are some really great people who could say, yeah, it could be worse. And we're not saying there's no risk, but we're saying that we think it's a thoughtful approach to volume.

Look, good morning. I start by -- we live in a world, and there's consumers and retailers. as much as we sort of felt like heels last year, here's the thing. Volume was up like four and a half points. Okay? Did we achieve what we wanted to in loans? That was the whole thing. No. So I would say, where we fell down was on loans. I do think global warming, by the way, is part of that.

But, when we talked to retailers about last year, you know what they say? I know you guys think it sucks. Lawn and garden was ace for us, and we thought you guys did great. So, I start by saying, Bill, like, yeah. this is just continued in the slog. I think that do I have data on that? I start by saying we had data on it was a pretty good year for us where we didn't solve our issues is lawns, and it matters.

But I look at the year and say, maybe I should just feel bad. But we accomplished an awful lot under a ton of pressure. And did we make the revenue numbers? Not exactly, I think we did pretty much everywhere except lawns. And it's a big business. We're staying flat. We the approach on marketing, the selection of a new sort of global agency for Scotts and the focus on a much larger relationship at the creative level, a world-class creative team on an agency that we just haven't signed a paperwork.

So that's probably involved in like working the fee. No, no, I'm not slowing that down. So I think that's going to really help us. The level of average, a lot of the changes we made were a result of the fall. And I don't know about you, but, in the spring, we saw a lot of we saw I saw a lot of commercials, on that early spring campaign we did and where the weather was good in Texas and Florida. The results were phenomenal. Okay.

Now the weather in the northeast at that time was not great. And we really saw like hardly any POS. And there's a bunch of learnings there. But what it says is the advertising combined with promotion when the weather is right was really, really good. Weather was a factor in there. And I'm not blaming I'm not blaming the weather. I tried to tell everybody here when we talk about what went wrong with lawns.

Let's start with look in the mirror is the first is the number one thing. So we're going to look we look at our core consumer and we've been chasing sort of the young up and coming about to be a homeowner pretty hard and the dispersion of our money into that when it gets into social media. You want to rent table here and then we're all maybe a little bit older than that group. None of us saw anything. And that was one of the reasons we made a change at the marketing level. Okay.

The approach going forward is going to be much more intense creative focused on our core consumer and back to basics on spend and our back to basics on spend. There's nothing new here is and this is kind of March Madness time is traditional media news and sports and not losing it as we chase people who are more challenge buying a home today than they have ever been based on interest rates and sort of lack of inventory in the market.

And I think the data we have on that we can share with you for sure. And our retailers can if you follow the same people because this is something that we all are committed to but I you can basically throw us on at, you can throw shit at us. We deserve it. But I but I would say that the year was we accomplished a lot and on the sales line. It's not bad whether it was a factor. We are a factor, I think there were promotional glitches at the retail level that probably didn't help the lawns business.

But I think we've got a really good plan for the year and I don't think we're expecting a lot, you know flat on a business that is down at this point call it 30% from the previous two years before. So I don't think we're really swinging for the fence here. I think this is back to basics back to stuff. We know I don't know make anything you want to add.

I don't know.

Hey, Chris. Here's kind of where I'm at, and this is the guidance I've given the team. I wish we had NDAs with you guys and we could brief you. I'd actually love to get your opinion on kind of how things are forming up. But I think that I start with Hawthorne on the we can't stay here category. Their back-end profitability, it will be a contributor.

I think Chris says that we may be able to move out of mom and dad's basement, but we're just getting kind of a studio in kind of a ratty part of town. That has taken a lot of work, and a lot of people have suffered to get there. And there's probably not an analyst that knows more about it than you, so the journey, you understand, has been challenging. And this idea of for us, we can't stay here.

I think fortunately, there's other people kind of in the same category. And the guidance that I've given to Chris and the team that are working this, which includes Matt, is I think the business needs to be well north of a billion dollars. It needs to be earning in sort of EBITDA terms, triple digits. It needs to be significant strategically. I mean, it has to have a sort of theme. And it's got to be large enough to be followed.

And I do think we have gotten there. And it's not like we are – I don't think we're dominant. But I think when the stock was in the 200s, we thought the consumer business and the Hawthorne business were fully valued, and therefore, splitting them apart, there was no real benefit. I think today, I think there's probably a negative valuation on Hawthorne. I think it's unappreciated – I mean that in the most critical sort of way – by our shareholders, at least a lot of them. And they'd like to see a solution where it's not part of Scott's. And so these are kind of the priorities that Chris is trying to manage.

So we're clear. We're not chasing and we're not struck dumb with sort of this was three years ago and the idea is evaluation. I think this is where we can partner. I think we're using in previous releases cash free or something like that. But I think this is where we partner, we accept that we will be one of the partners, possibly get to distribution of those shares to the Scott shareholders, but start with we don't have to own this.

We don't have to necessarily be the boss. But we do want to be a respected partner in how the business is managed. And I think that as we've talked about this business, and I think these were in I think Matt's notes as we prepared, this business started out as a professionally managed business. And it still is. And we have a professional management team that can contribute here and within that business, as there's lots of different sort of levels of professionalism.

So I think on top of we've got these great brands, we've got this great R&D pipeline, we also have a professional leadership that's used to being in a public Company that can contribute into this whatever co. And it's pretty exciting, I think. Now, it's like all kind of deal discussions. Everybody we're talking now to is enthusiastic. That's not the issue with enthusiasm. It's just getting down to meat and potatoes and what flaws do people have in their businesses. We know one thing about how we're looking at this. And to some extent, whether it's Hawthorne or RIV, it's 100% clean and not a burden to anybody.

And that, as I doubt there's any other business that can say that. So we feel like we have a lot to offer these combinations. I can't speak for RIV, but RIV is sitting on a relative mountain of cash that doesn't exist anywhere else in this business. And so we also are enthusiastic and, we have a Board meeting on Friday to kind of keep them current. I want to give credit to Chris especially, because this is one where, because it's not just one party we're talking to, it's multiple parties, it's complicated. And there's a lot of permutations to it.

And I think it can get tedious where you're trying to maintain a lot of opportunities and conversations. And things change a lot and people's attitude changes and people get in bad moods and, people fight old battles. But I think that if every, and I'm sure some of those people we're talking to are on this phone call or will be listening to this phone call. If everybody can maintain a balance, we can create a very unique business in partnership with other people. And I think that that's a really good solution for this, because some of those businesses can make a lot of money and we have something of great value that is not a burden to anybody's balance sheet.

It's pretty significant. I'm not sure I want to, but I think if you take it's a three plus billion dollar business and you're talking high single digits, which I would say is accurate, you can just multiply it out and you'll come to a number. And there has been, Matt has really led a process of really pressure testing this issue of how sure are you guys? How does the operating side feel about this?

So, Bill, I'll just comment. The story isn't so much increasing the media spend significantly, although we are looking for dollars to do that. It's how we're going to spend the dollars. And Jim referred to our new agency of record and our partners in Media Hub. So the way we'll spend the dollars this coming year will be totally different than the way we spent them last year, and I think that's the bigger piece of the story on the working media.

