James P. Zallie
Ingredion Incorporated (INGR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Ben.

Yes. I mean, our first priority always is with capital to invest in organic capital for growth and obviously, maintain our plant assets, so they run with liability and efficiently. As Jim talked about, second to that would be our dividend, the focus on our dividend. And third, would be the use for M&A to grow our Textured and Healthful Solutions businesses. And we have a very, as we always do, active M&A pipeline. But Ingredion, over time, has always remained disciplined. And for those acquisitions we have made, we've integrated them very well and delivered on the business case.

And also, it's noteworthy that the price that we got for the Korea business, which is primarily a core business, where, Jim, I think about a third of that volume was dedicated to high fructose corn syrup, was above our trading multiple from a PE standpoint. So, we feel very good about it, and we think it's the right thing to do for our portfolio, and we'll use the proceeds wisely.

Yes. I think it played out exactly as we had indicated in the last earnings call, and we thought it was very rational behavior on the part of customers to certainly adjust working capital down, but also wait for some of the price decreases that they were anticipating that would be affected with contracts starting in January. But, we do want to emphasize that the customer inventory correction that started a year ago has largely run its course, and we don't see that as a factor as we head into this New Year.

Yes. I think with respect to packaged food volume demand, we expect an increase in unit volumes as brand and private label lap the very high unit prices that occurred, I guess over the last two years. So, we anticipate that grocery retailers will want to support consumers to bring them back to the stores, and I think we're going to see more promotions to support traffic.

We also highlighted the increasing customer interactions. We're seeing many more engagements for innovation related projects that we think is a leading indicator for the need for brand innovation to drive also volume growth within the CPG space.

So, we're anticipating a mid-single-digit uptick in sales volume demand for 2024, and that growth should become evident in all geographies through 2024, except perhaps, as Jim said, in Europe for the first quarter. And overall, as we guided, net sales will be flat to up low-single-digits as we expect some price mix headwinds with lower corn costs being passed through on our variable pricing contracts.

Yes, I mean, we will always disciplined, of course, and look at every deal prospect critically for the synergies. But now, what has happened this past year is we went through a full year lengthy strategy refresh using, some of you may know the play-to-win framework, and so we're very clear about our winning aspiration. We're very clear about where to play and how to win. And we will be supporting the strategy with M&A and organic investments as well. And we do have, I will say, we do have some pretty big organic investments that we're excited about that we want to pursue as well.

Yes. I think, Ben, that the pivot towards a more global focus on Texture and Helpful Solutions, first of all, we believe that there is an exciting opportunity ahead for Ingredion to work with customers, to influence their understanding and our collective understanding of how Texture impacts overall liking and consumer preference analogous to flavors. And we've been saying for a while, but we really believe that. So, we've invested in consumer insights and sensory capabilities, and also now Texture measurement science capabilities, so that we can correlate that.

On the Healthful Solutions side, our focus is very clear. It is on sugar reduction, which has a large total addressable market protein and fiber fortification. Those are our platforms for Healthful Solutions. And it is with that focus, which are driven by global trends and have universal value propositions for all customers globally, we think that just lends itself to a global approach.

Ingredion, for the longest time, has been very regionally organized, and that has served us very well from a standpoint of regional accountability for P&Ls and delivering results. We believe that what we have done in the last, say, five years, where we have, for efficiency purposes, for effectiveness purposes, stood up a global business services organization, for example, shared services with finance, are some of our marketing functions and HR functions are now globalized in support of more of a global business model.

We couldn't have done what we're about to embark on five years ago, because we had to build the capabilities, but we've built those muscles from a standpoint of back office, shared service, global business operations, and by the way, the most important move that we made was globalizing operations. And I can tell you, and what you're seeing in our results are the benefits of moving to that global operations model. Some of the things we talked about in relationship to our net promoter scores, the service enhancements, the benefits in procurement that we're getting, the safety results, that operational excellence focus on a global basis with benchmarking best practice is serving us very well.

So, it allows for the commercial organization in Texture and Healthful Solutions to focus much more time and be much more intimate with customers to really understand their brands and what they need from us as a co-creation partner. So, we are looking at adjusting KPIs and incentive schemes to drive the kind of global behavior to align with global key customers, but also share very actively where consumer buying behavior is going to change. There's a lot of questions about how consumer buying behavior is likely to change with a lot of things that are going on in the food industry right now, and we think being organized the way we are moving will serve us very well to be much more intimate with customers.

Yes. I do think, Jim, it was helpful that you clarified about the protein fortification loss, operating loss and inventory adjustment. That $55 million total is in the 23% increase in operating income last year, and we believe that that has been taken to a low point, where we're seeing improvements heading into this year. So, that's something that we are encouraged about as well.

I think we see a lot of focus on food service innovation, because you're seeing still strong consumer spending and the pardon me, I'm just going -- Jim, could you take it.

Yes. I think continued focus on helpful solutions, a lot of focus on a dynamic consumer related to continued spending for experiences and mobility and an increasing focus on return to office, lunch trade, again, those foodservice type offerings where we're very connected into the quick service restaurant trade. We're seeing a lot of activity from a standpoint of ideation and innovation there.

And I think Jim, emphasized just naturally, you're going to see a lot of focus continually on affordability related to consumer debt that may be increasing and just overall affordability. I don't think you're going to see much more shrinkflation. I think that's run its course and there's been backlash. But I do think overall recipe formulation is what we're seeing a lot of the briefs that we're working with customers on.

Yes. For sure, the high intensity natural sweetener space is something that we're seeing a lot of attention. Based on a lot of the news that came out in the middle and towards the end of last year with some of the studies about the high intensity artificials as well.

Hi, Adam.

But we have proven over time, the last couple of years, that we will be opportunistic, and we will be very meaningful in relationship to making share repurchases that will be accretive.

Yes. So, I would say, you should continue to follow what we've done in the past because I think we've been very purposeful and clear about our capital allocation approach, and we will continue to do so. But with the strategy refresh, clearly, we would like to expand our toolbox of solutions capabilities for textural offerings and in those targeted areas for Healthful solutions. So, it's always a balancing act, Adam, but I think the other thing just to emphasize, as I said earlier, is we will continue to be disciplined and be good stewards of capital.

I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning. We look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming investor events with the next significant engagement being CAGNY in Boca Raton on February 21. And, I want to thank you for your continued interest in Ingredion.