Jason Wells
CenterPoint Energy, Inc. (CNP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Anthony, I appreciate the question. Look, I think we've got a proven track record here where we look to fund our industry-leading growth plan, as efficiently as possible. This will be the fourth transaction, over the last three years doing that. As it relates to the remaining composition, after we closed the sale of we don't anticipate, we're really pleased, with the states we have the privilege to serve.

I think we pointed out, we have a bias on a dual fuel basis, but we also have a bias where we have presence. And so, we're really happy with the remainder of the portfolio. I'll just say that, we'll continue to look, to fund this growth as efficiently as possible, as we've proven over the last few years.

Yes. Thanks, Steve. We've got a long history of working with Chairman Gleeson [ph]. He stepped in the role of Executive Director, kind of after Winter Storm Uri, and we have tackled a number of issues here in Texas with him, particularly I think back to the last legislative session here this past year and the work that we did around cost of capital and cap structure from a legislative basis.

But I think it's a real opportunity for us to continue, to leverage that relationship that we built. I was in Chairman Gleeson in December prior to the announcement, as I step in currently in this role. So, we'll maintain a really good relationship there. But I think Steve, stepping back, I want to provide a little bit of context, about how we're positioning these rate cases.

I think what may be - maybe not understood as well, as possible is that last year, we increased revenues in our Houston Electric business, by about $300 million through settlements. And as we continue to look forward, we're anticipating a relatively flat revenue requirement request in this upcoming Houston Electric rate case, and we'll continue to work with parties constructively to resolve it.

And so I think it's continuing, to maintain strong relationships with the commissioners, but equally continuing to work, constructively with all parties in the cases.

Good morning, Constantine thanks

Yes. Thanks, Constantine. I think what's important here is, we're working off our front foot. We - as we talked about, increased the 2023 CapEx spend, about $700 million, for critical investments for our customers. That is basically enabling us, to put those investments in rates, at the same time that we anticipate, closing on this sale in early 2025.

So effectively, we've prefunded the loss of rate base. So, I think about these proceeds as effectively paying off what has been prefunded, enhancing the balance sheet, and putting us in a position, of continued strength moving forward.

Yes, thanks for the question. As you - hopefully appreciate at this point. I think we're building a track record, of consistent update throughout the year. I don't think we're going to be the management team that, makes kind of annually for a cycle as we have news, we'll share it. And we're constantly looking at, enhancing the plan and have built that track record, of continues updates quarter-after-quarter. I think stepping back more broadly, though, I think as we get to the other side of these rate cases in '25.

I look forward to hosting another Investor Day where - at that point, we will likely put forward, a new 10-year plan into the mid-2030s, just reflecting our long-term confidence in the growth that, we have here at CenterPoint. And so, expect periodic updates in between now and then. And then on the other side of these rate cases, a much more comprehensive update, underpinning the long-term growth that, we have in front of us.

A little fun fact on this Houston Electric rate case that, as we are putting the final touches on the filing, it will be the smallest revenue requirement increase requested in the history of CenterPoint, or its predecessor companies back to 1975. And so I think it's really, I think, reflective, of the hard work that we're doing to maintain affordable service, for our customers despite significant increases in improving system resiliency and reliability. So in that way, I hope we're putting forward.

And I think we are, a very constructive revenue requirement increase. As I look forward in that procedural schedule, there's the possibility of potentially settling the Houston Electric rate case, sometime mid-summer, kind of in between intervenor testimony and hearings. But again, I think our focus is on filing a compelling case for all stakeholders, and then working constructively through that process.

Thank you, Constantine.

It was roughly $800 million of rate base that we have invested in Louisiana and Mississippi. The $700 million is what we increased our capital expenditure plan in 2023, effectively prefunding, the anticipated rate base that will go, with that sale of Louisiana, Mississippi.

Durgesh, just a little bit of color around this. As we've talked about CenterPoint historically been a federal cash taxpayer. The last couple of years, we talked about adopting the repairs tax and really minimizing that build right about the time that our cash taxes would be coming down is right about the time it will be subject to the mid tax. And so think about this as kind of incremental as we had worked down that federal cash tax payment position.

Thank you.

Thanks. Good morning, Sophie.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Sophie. I wouldn't necessarily think about this resiliency filing is changing the mechanism of recovery. I think we'll continue to pursue constructive distribution and transmission capital trackers that we have currently. I think the real benefit, outside of really putting forward a three-year plan, we look at the cost-benefit analysis of these investments, to make sure that we're prudently investing on behalf of our customers.

The real benefit financially, is that the distribution capital that, is subject to that approved three-year plan. Effectively, we will minimize regulatory lag associated with that investment - that regulatory lag is effectively. When we put that capital into service, we begin appreciating it. We began to record interest and taxes on it. Those amounts today fall to the bottom line in the form of regulatory lag, before the capital is put into rates.

As we look forward now, we have the opportunity to defer those post in-service carrying costs, until we start collecting, the capital investment in rates. The way that I think about this from a rule of thumb standpoint, is about every $300 million of eligible distribution capital, is worth about $0.01 of savings in terms of regulatory lag. And so, think about this less as a new mechanism for recovery, and more about helping minimize regulatory lag, on our system investment.

Good morning, Julien.

Yes, Julien, thanks for the question. I mean I think what we're trying to do, is lay out kind of the pieces here. We've been investing, as you know, it improved resiliency for the community here in Houston, over the last couple of years, starting kind of with resiliency now. And part of the $700 million that we increased our CapEx plan last year in 2023, by or investments directly attributable, to improving system resiliency.

And then as well, when you think about this transaction, there's the approximate $1 billion in after-tax proceeds, which really helps fund that pre-investment that I've been speaking about. But the other opportunity that I want to stress, is in our previous 10-year capital plan ending 2030. We had about $1 billion of incremental investment earmarked for Louisiana, Mississippi.

Upon closure of those, we'll obviously continue to invest through the close of the sale. But after that sale closes, we'll be able to take that $1 billion that we had allocated to Louisiana, Mississippi and redeploy it back here, largely into Houston Electric for resiliency programs. So there's an opportunity there to get the improved recovery that, I just mentioned in my answer to Sophie.

I think there's also the opportunity - we were under earning Louisiana, Mississippi, so by redeploying that capital back in Houston Electric, redeploying it in a jurisdiction, we have a higher earned return. So there's that kind of enhancement. So I wouldn't necessarily look at this as incremental equity coming out of this resiliency filing.

This is again, ways to support the prefunding, the increases that we've seen as well as reallocating capital, to support those programs, and enhancing our long-term EPS growth plan.

Yes. No, thank you for that question. We've got our third settlement conference in the Texas gas rate case here, at the end of the month in February. That was what we believe is a relatively modest rate increase. And as we've talked about in the past, a number of customer classes, are experiencing a significant rate decrease. And so, we're optimistic that given the constructive nature, of the request that we can kind of find a settlement.

To the extent that we can't, we would anticipate a decision in that case probably mid-summer this year. So, we'll continue working the settlement front according to that settlement schedule. And then as I said, we have the opportunity with the Houston Electric rate case sometime mid-summer, to potentially settle that as well.

Thanks, Julien.