Jason Lippert
LCI Industries (LCII) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Morning.

Yes, that's a good question. We're indexed on steel and aluminum, as you know, so those just happen without any conversations, and we just follow the indexes on those two commodities. So steel, we've seen a trending down in price last quarter and this quarter, and what we're giving back to our customers, we'll see that increase again where they'll actually some increases on steel in Q2 as steel went down to low-30s and now it's back up into the mid-50s. And aluminum stayed pretty consistent, so there hasn't been a whole lot of movement on aluminum. And we might maybe index more than other businesses out there, so the good of it is, is we just don't have to go and have those conversations with our customers on a regular basis with respect to the steel commodity-related products.

The rest of it's just kind of as we see commodities moving up to need price or to give price back, then we have those conversations with our customers. But steel and aluminum, they're fixed on the indexes.

And, Scott, we've had January results, and so we were profitable in January. We know January. February; revenues look very similar to January at this point in time, at least from an RV's perspective. And if you look at March, and we've got certainly a visibility into March, we're seeing RV OEMs increase some days production, which in some cases will be 20% for some of those, and others that are flat, and others that are just adding a few units a week to their production schedule. So, January and February look pretty consistent with one another, March looks like it'll be up a little bit. So, it looks like, like we've said all along, that we know that what goes down must come up. And feels like we're starting to come off the bottom, at least in March we'll certainly see a little bit more volume in RV. That helpful?

Well, we're not through the quarter yet.

Say, flat-to-lower.

Yes.

Yes. Yes, and that's good, I'm glad you're bringing that up because we wanted to make the point anyway. It's just important, like you said, to consider wholesale production versus wholesale sales. So, they reported, last year, the 313 or whatever the number ended up to be. We feel the number in terms of units produced, because they sold a bunch of units in '23 that were actually built in '22, that we would have built components for in '22. So, we feel that delta was a production number of maybe 280-275, somewhere in there. It's clear enough to put it in a short range. So, we feel that even if the -- even if, on the low end, you're at the low end of our 325 to 350 on RV, we could see another 35,000 to 45,000 units of what we will product this year, from a wholesale perspective, different than last year.

So, I think that those are the puts and takes. We're not seeing in -- this January, it's -- January was up a little bit, but from a seasonality perspective I think that, like I said, March, April, May, June, these dealers are going to need product, and that's where we're going to see more of the bump to get us closer to that 325 and north number, whatever number you're picking. But yes, from a production perspective, feels like at the low end of our scale, we're 35,000 to 45,000 units more -- more units that we'll produce components for this year than last year, which is significant.

That helpful?

There was weather impact for sure. There was a few days of shutdown, but the OEMs made some of that back, and then some of it they didn't. Some of those days fell in inventory days, so there might've been a little bit of impact there. But I would say that, year-over-year, we're always seeing weather-related impacts, a day or two here or there, and it's usually in January or February, so.

Yes, we're for sure just in time. But I think that the downside that we're seeing there is partially similar to what we saw with RV, where inventories are starting to be just at the dealer level, and OEMs just aren't building. So, you'll probably see a little bit more sell through on the retail side, which will impact both the OEMs and our production on marine.

Yes, we maintain that if you eliminate the indexing puts and takes out of whatever the content number is that our ability to continually organically grow content of 3% to 5% to 6%, somewhere in there. It just depends on what we're launching and how the OEMs adapt and bring in our new products. So, we feel like we can positively grow organic content on a consistent basis, and we've demonstrated that over history.

Yes, we don't have just getting the last piece. We don't have a TAM on there yet because we're in early stages. But we've got probably three-fourths of the factory running. So, we've been kind of installing it in pieces and it's pretty impressive if you come out next time. We'd love to take you through. Let's see everything, but we're doing housing glass for both manufactured housing and residential housing, we're doing certainly RV glass and now our RV door glass.

If you've been around RVs lately, we're putting glass on the front doors of the units to make it look nicer and adding some content there. But if you look in some of the commercial markets we're building for there, you look at solar glass, refrigerator glass and grocery stores we're doing some of that. A lot of garage door glass, if you look at garage stores these days, both commercial and residential, you see a lot of glass in the garage doors versus just an older type door that you'd normally expect. So, and then we get to acrylic. They can do some thermoforming there and we expect acrylic to be big RVs, I mean we're going to certainly offer that as part of our mode on windows, which is second or third largest component in the RV business for our core products.

So, we'll have acrylic for windows, which nobody else has here, and then we also will do acrylic skylights and things like that. You're seeing a trend with our RV OEMs that continue to put more glass and acrylic around the units to just let more natural light in the units. It sells units. So, that's where we're at today; more of an update next quarter.

Sure. Thanks, Dan.

And Mike, going back to the other question too, we did call out warranty as well. If you look at sales like Lillian said, significantly underpriced compared to the last couple of years when we had a significant amount of units built over COVID, just the volume of it and that starts to show up a couple of years after these units start getting sold, so, that'll eventually retract.

It's my favorite topic, Craig.

So, yes, I'll categorize it. I mean look like I said, I've been in this business since we started our first RV products. So, 30 years, I watched a lot of competitors come and go. I put them into a couple of different categories. Some we've beat and they're gone. Some we've acquired and they're part of our business now and others are still around. We're competing with them on a regular basis. And we have, I'd say over the 30 years what's been consistent is not only that but the fact that, just competition is part of what we do.

It's part of the business, it's part of any business. And you look at the new entrants now, if you're looking at the axle thing that people keep bringing up, the air axle thing, people keep bringing up. We've had new competitors, I would say almost every year in the last 30 years. So, I just keep pointing people to our track record and say, look at our track record. We won more battles than we've lost. We continue to use innovation to beat our competitors. We use our bundling and just our massive mode of products there to beat competitors.

And then, now we've got diversification strategy, which allows us to do some things that we couldn't do five to 10 years ago. So, I point to those things and look at, if you're pointing specifically to air axle, I'd say look, we're taking double-digit margin increases in market share against that business in the last two years. You look at this axle thing that's popped up, yes, we've lost a little bit of axles on the Forest River side of our business, but axles in general is a small part of our business. And to boot, we've had we won a million axles this year. So, axles was like one of the biggest gainers in 2023 where we were almost flat year-over-year in our axle business.

We don't typically get that granular, but to kind of defend the whole competitive landscape thing, I have to point it out. And just to say, look we're down 50% in other RV products. We were flat in axles even though we lost a little bit of market share. So, I just say we're going to continue to compete. We'll find we'll have new competitors next year and it doesn't bother us.

Yes. I would say a couple of things. First, if you look at the last three years, '23, '22 and '21, our operating margin was just a little over 8% and $16 billion in total revenue. So, you look at that and say, okay, over time, will they perform? I mean, yes, we pick out one down cycle. We've had, I'd say, 2.5% over the last 15 years. We had a little dip in '18 and then we had the latter part of '22 and '23. So, yes, in those years, we're definitely going to see the pressure in margin.

I think maybe one difference from between now and '08 is we have all these indexes in place where when there is extreme volatility in steel and aluminum pricing, there's going to be some bigger swings in profitability, but it all evens out in the end because we're going to get we're going to get the price sooner or later, and it fell pretty significantly over the course of the last half of last year and Q4 and Q1 -- Q4 last year, Q1 this year is when we kind of see some of that headwind. We're out of it in Q2 because we've got some price increases coming on the steel side. So, -- but I would say, over time, I would expect the same kind of margin performance and knowing that we're going to have a down cycle every once in a while. Maybe we -- maybe the -- on the steel side, we're giving -- I'd like to think we're contributing to the lower ASPs right now because we're one of the ones through the steel have given some pretty significant increases. And we all know if ASP is lower, then we're going to probably have a better chance of selling more RVs. So, --

Good morning.

Yes, great. We've been in the international side for about almost 10 years, almost a decade. And what we've learned is that it just moves slow whether it's going down or whether it's going up. There's just a little bit slower reaction time by the market, by the OEMs, the supply base, everything moves a little bit slower. So, I'd say that over time, you can plan on that, just on the RV piece of it being more consistent. It's never going to go -- it never seems to go up substantially and big ways are down substantially in big ways. So, it's a more consistent part of our business.

And right now, it feels pretty flattish. And I know there's some talk that there's some business downtick in some areas, but we're still seeing opportunities with content gain and market share gains over there. So, we expect it to be pretty flat.

Yes. I think they've realized when you look at some of the other public company releases, I think that they realize that they need to really slow production, and they've done that, started really tailing of last -- or early part of last half of last year. So, we'll see how quickly the dealers can get through product, but the products have never looked better, and I think that's what helps sell both.

Certainly, there's product moving out there. It hasn't completely stopped on the retail side, but we're kind of playing that same game at the RV OEMs and dealers played last year is like just wait for inventories to catch up and get to a reasonable level, and we'll get back to business. But it doesn't feel like it's going to be as extensive or as long as what we saw on the RV side. So, we're hopeful that they can get that fixed this year.

Thanks, Patrick.

Yes, I think in some cases, yes. In some cases, no, but I think that's always the case, Brandon. I think that you can always make the argument that if there's a lot of competition, a lot of pressure that, that definitely forces margins down in some cases. But I'd also say, look, a lot of the stuff we're doing we take our air conditioner we mentioned, for example, there's not another product out there like it. So, while we're competing in the air conditioning space, we've got a product that nobody else has. It's higher capacity. It's quieter, and we can retain margins on anything that's got IP or unique properties or unique features and benefits.

So, our ABS, certainly, there's just nothing else out there really that is giving a competition so we can hold margins and things like that, new suspension systems. But on some commoditized products, for sure, you're going to experience margin pressure and things like that. But I don't think it's really any more than what we're typically used to, and that's probably the main stories. We're competing always and have for the last 30 years, it's just a matter of -- it just seems to be more on everybody's radar now.

And just to add to that, Brandon, I'd just say -- the puts were -- there was a little bit more warranty than normal, like I mentioned a little bit ago. That will normalize here when we get some volume.

Marine was the other big one that Lillian mentioned, but that's less than -- a little less than 10% of our total business. So, that being off doesn't impact us as much as you might think. And then, RV, like she said, we'll -- we expect to continue to normalize, and aftermarket has been very steady. And as we keep talking, we expect the service and repair part of our business to continue to grow double digits. It's -- we're just doing more and more repair and service because we've got more and more OEM parts in the field as we've penetrated market share and OEM content over the last decade. Those units are all starting to come back and need repair on parts like innings and axles and slide-outs and leveling systems and all the different things that we build. So, hopefully, that's helpful.

Yes, thanks.

Hi, how are you doing?

I know for the year, there was. I don't think -- I'm not going to sit here and tell you what the number is because I don't know, but it doesn't feel like there was -- it might have been a little more a little less, but I don't know. For the year, we said like you can count on 35,000 to 45,000 units probably if you're expecting a difference this year to next -- last year to this year on a wholesale number of $325-ish.

The only difference we noticed was a little bit of a mix shift in single axle trailers versus what's historical. And of course, you're out of the shows you feel this -- all the entry-level step Bob Martin was on a podcast the other day and said something in fact that he noticed that it shows a lot of the entry-level steps moving. So, we're seeing a little bit of that trend and -- but I think it's important to note the difference between mix shift and de-contenting while on a mix shift to lower units, we're going to have a little bit less content there, but we don't see the de-contenting of our products on units that would make any impact on our content number.

Can you say it again Tristan?

So, the index pricing puts out of there.

Thanks, everybody, for joining. We're really looking forward to next quarter. We'll see you all then. Thanks. Bye-bye.