Jason Dies
Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Kartik, thank you for the question. I mean look, as always with GEC, I'd say it's multiple things. First off, we need to continue to drive the cost management that we've been pushing for a while now. I think you really started to see the cost management kick in over the last few months. I'll call out in fourth quarter in particular, we saw an $8 million improvement in OpEx year-over-year. So that is going to continue and the team is focused on that.

Second, as you've heard from us repeatedly, we need to continue to focus on driving volumes into the network, especially volumes that add margin in an important way to the network. We did a good job of that again, in fourth quarter. We've done a good job of that over the past couple of years. Last year, we drove 24% increase in domestic parcel volume over the course of the year, 13% in fourth quarter, in what was a down peak for most in the industry. So that has to be a part of the equation again.

And then to your point, we're always focused on rate per piece and the price and margin that we're getting in the market. And I would say in particular, we've probably shifted more to a focus on the margins that were yielding in the market over the past few months. And that will continue to be a focus for us going forward.

Yeah, you're talking specifically about the SendTech. Business, I think with these [multiple speakers].

Yeah, so look, I mean, as you know, and as we've talked about before, we are in the tail end of IMI migration through most of our portfolio. So if you think about the middle of the range, and the low end of the range, that has to get done this year. We have to move those clients to the new platform. We have more time on the top end, and on the higher end of the products, which we announced at the beginning of last year.

So the truth is we're going to continue to focus on that IMI migration. We're going to continue to use the value of the lease extensions that we're now at the point where we can start to really drive very effectively. We've talked about before those lease extensions have a positive impact overall, in walking in revenue for us for the long term.

So 2024, to your point will be a bit of a transition period, as you see us move from our existing equipment portfolio, finish off moving to the new equipment portfolio, start to see more of those lease extensions, as opposed to new equipment placements. And it will make for a little bit different 2024, but one that ultimately is going to strengthen us as we go forward and lock in those recurring revenues.

Doing well. Thanks.

Yeah, I'd just say just specifically. I mean, look, it is incumbent on us to continue to drive productivity to continue to drive cost out. You know that labor is something that you're going to have to adjust to and make sure you're getting the right talent to run the business. But that's part of a larger equation that we're going to continue to balance going forward.

Yeah, I'll go back to your baseball analogy, we are late innings. So we saw significant impact of that in Q4 start to materialize for us. I will tell you all the actions and activities that we need to execute on to yield that restructuring savings have already been plumbed in the system and are late stages of being executed. And we expect to realize the full benefit of that throughout 2024.

Yeah, look. So I will say what I believe I said on the last call, right. So the Board has formed a four person committee that is using a nationally ranked search firm to go off and seek appropriate candidates. We said early on that that was going to take some time and the Board was going to be clear and fulsome in their process that they went through. We announced I think, in the November earnings call, that that process at the moment was expected to take four to six months. And we're right in that window.

Thank you.

Yeah, Matt, let me let me just jump in. I mean, look I'm going to say a couple of additional points here. We're not going to comment specifically on where we think TEC is going to wind up as we go through 2024. I've said in the past, we're not happy with the rate of performance that we've gotten now from a financial point of view, I think we've made tremendous progress from an operational and executional point of view. But we are still looking at ways to make sure that we can maximize the value of the business and I outlined a few of those earlier.

The one thing in addition, I would say is, look, we are smart enough to know that we're not necessarily always going to have all the answers. We have brought in a third party to help us look at and work with the management team on are we looking at all the levers we should be looking at are there ways to accelerate the actions that we've got in place?

And I'd say, just as a broader statement, bringing in a third party reflects certainly my personal philosophy that we should be open to ideas from the outside. I think you've seen that for me in talking to investors and analysts over the past four months. And GEC is not the only place, frankly, we're going to bring in an outside pair of eyes. As you look at opportunities for us to think differently, potentially about our debt stack, about how we optimize the bank, we're always going to be out looking for good ideas, and GEC is certainly one place we're doing that.

Yes, let me first from a strategic point of view -- and I think I said at the opening, but it's important, and I want to reiterate it. As you think about going forward for Pitney Bowes, getting leverage from the assets and the offerings that we have across the portfolio is one of the opportunities that we still have in front of us.

So moving the digital solutions business, from GEC to SendTech, was one of those things that just made obvious sense. If you think about the technology, the team and the capabilities that powers that business, they do it for both GEC and for SendTech. It is a business that is focused on the digital side of shipping transactions, of actually producing the labels. So it is more of a SaaS-based business.

And so bringing those together in the technology part of our organization, which is SendTech made sense for a bunch of reasons. One, it allows us to really bring the development and go to market teams together in a very focused way. It allows us to leverage the go-to-market of SendTech, as they shift more and more to shipping. And the synergies that we think we're going to get there are going to pay off I think over the long term, as you look at the range of offerings that we will continue to create in that space.

I'm actually very excited about the move Matt, and for no other reason, then it refocuses the team on making sure that we are looking at our offerings. We're looking at the technologies that we have in our portfolio. Are we monetizing them correctly? Do we have additional opportunities? And it just made all the sense in the world to bring these digital assets together under the SendTech umbrella where I think they can be best leveraged.

Yeah, let me -- actually I appreciate the question. Let me step back and kind of put that announcement last night into some color and some context. And the first thing I'd say on that is Pitney Bowes is actually in a great position with that announcement. As you would expect the Board and I talk regularly about Board composition, and specifically, how do we enhance the skills and experiences on the Board so that they can best partner with management and lead the company during this particular time of change.

The process that we went through was pretty clear. The Board engaged a nationally recognized search firm, as part of our active and ongoing refreshment. That search firm brought candidates forward. The Board had given them specific skill sets and criteria that they were looking for, things that you might expect around capital allocation, corporate governance transformation. And at the end of the day, it was a successful process. And we now have two new Board members who bring those skills along with a wealth of experience to our boardroom.

The second half is we also have clear and committed support of one of our largest shareholders as we make the changes that we need to make continuing to move forward. So it's a win-win for us right now. And the announcement that you saw last night is a strong signal of confidence in the progress we've made in the past year, building alignment with shareholders. And more importantly, it's a strong signal and the confidence and the path forward that I in the management team are pursuing here.

I've talked to a lot of investors over the past four months, and the changes that I'm making are reflective of those conversations. And I certainly hope that all of our stakeholders can get excited about the opportunities in front of us, about the transformation that we're undertaking, and most importantly, about the progress that we're starting to see, as evidenced by the results that we're talking about right here.

So at the end, all I will say on this is that the Board and I are fully committed to the same thing, making the changes we need to make to drive shareholder value. And we have what we need to move forward.

And Matt, I'll just point out I mean, we did reaffirm the dividend this morning. Clearly, that's something we put a lot of thought and effort into with the Board. And what I will say is, you heard me talk about my strategic priorities for this year, and capital allocation was one of them. And I put that in there both as a signal externally, and also as a signal frankly, internally to our teams that we're going to think differently about how we allocate capital. And we need to get -- we need to make sure that we continue to look for ways to maximize return to all of our shareholders, both in the short term and in the long term.

So right, let's be 100% clear, we're not waiting on anything. We've been taking actions over the past year and certainly have redoubled those actions over the past four to six months to try to make a meaningful impact on the GEC business. What I will tell you again is we are looking for all of our ways that we have, all of the tools that we have at our disposal to realize the value of this business. And short term, it's kind of along what I said at the beginning, right. We continue to focus on operational efficiencies. We're going to continue to make sure that we're driving volumes into our network.

By the way, I would point out the fact that we've been successful in driving volumes into the network is a sign of the value that we provide to clients when we work with them. Volume comes from clients, and the fact that we've been able to continue to deliver growth there, I think is a strong statement of the value we provide in the market. And then finally, we do have to get better on making sure that we are extracting the right value from clients for the services and offerings that we provide.

So I don't want anyone to have a thought that there is any sense of waiting or hesitation or that there is anything that's needed to start to make progress on GEC. That said, it's a lot of work. There's a lot of things that we're managing and juggling as we try to move forward. But I want to be clear, the Board has been nothing but supportive in me and in the GEC leadership team, as we look at our alternatives and continue to move the ball forward.

What I'll say Peter on… Yes, I hi, Peter.

Yeah, and when I'd say, Peter, I'll just remind you SendTech by its very nature is a lumpy business, right? I mean, we deal with lease cycles, we deal with this IMI migration. SendTech in various quarters and various years tends to jump around more than just about any other business based on the lease cycles and equipment sales. You could have a quarter where you have a large equipment transaction, and that's going to distort things.

What I think you should be focused on is that we will continue to outperform the market in that business. And we are continuing to reposition that business for long term success. So while there might be pockets of different outcomes quarter-to-quarter, some will be better than others, the general trend is the same. We are repositioning that business, we are going to perform ahead of market and we are shifting that business into new growth spaces which provide us much opportunity going forward.

Yeah, look, I appreciate the questions. I just want to -- reflecting on kind of a bunch of them, I want to make one final point. And that is, you should be walking away from this call clear that each of our BUs has growth potential, even as we drive efficiencies across the organization. And as Ana said, we're going to make the changes needed to capitalize on that potential. We see a lot of opportunity in SendTech, specifically in the shipping business. We're taking actions to pursue that.

Presort is a market leader and as you heard continues to perform in a way that is above market and certainly above many expectations, although not mine. And GEC has proven that our domestic model can work. And we're going to continue to take actions in the short term to drive that performance.

So with that, I think I will say thank you for your questions. As I mentioned at the outset, I am optimistic about what lies ahead for Pitney Bowes. We understand the challenges as well as the opportunities that we have in front of us. And as we look ahead to 2024, we're going to continue to operate with intensity. And we're going to continue to prioritize actions that support increased operational discipline. And importantly, also accelerate our shift in the targeted shipping growth path. So with that, I will close and we look forward to talking to you at the end of first quarter.