Jay Schmidt
Caleres, Inc. (CAL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Dana. It's Jay. I think, overall, in just thinking about the consumer, we are seeing, I think, the demand environment remains mixed, as I would say, as we leave fourth quarter and into first quarter. We see our Brand Portfolio consumer continually trend-driven and responding very well to newness right now, which is driving demand. And at our Famous, consumer during fourth quarter and into early first, we did see the market environment remains choppy.

Our target consumer, the millennial family, continues to prioritize kids. And -- however, I will say that we're seeing some very strong reaction from both segments on really these highly demanded items. So that's really our goal is to continue to get in front of them and go there. We are seeing a slightly better trend as we move from February into March. And that gives us some sign for optimism, but obviously very early on in the quarter.

And then finally, in terms of order trends, they're very consistent to where they've been in previous quarters right now. As you know, our business is highly demand driven and dynamic on our Brand Portfolio and we continue to react in real time with our SPEED program, our dropship program and also our replenishment program to continue to meet that consumer demand.

Okay. And then, as far as our own brands, we're seeing some really nice results coming out of fourth quarter and then moving into first quarter, particularly with our Dr. Scholl's brand at Famous, our Naturalizer brand, and we're pleased with the early launch of Sam and Libby. And so, we feel that we are well on our track of how we led to our three-year goal there. And we are planning those brands up significantly. And obviously, Jack, the profit on vertical brands is significantly higher than where we go as a company, right?

So, we're very excited for what we're seeing there. And again, that was a concerted effort and we look like we're well on track.

Yeah. Well, it's early in March. I think it's all of those things. And then, one more, I think the weather, an early spring is always good. And it's -- we've had a much better weather pattern than we've had last year, particularly when you think about Famous being across the country. And so that's the first thing.

I think the second thing that just really stood out was that we really are in much better position in some of these key demanding items and the key brands at Famous, and that has really propelled it through as the consumers really pointing very specifically. We've seen our top brands in Famous come back quite a bit.

And then, just to answer your question on the Brand Portfolio, we are seeing some nice trends that are similar to that, and again, focused on just really, I think, some of our brands opening up and reacting to a warmer cycle. So, some early signs on sandals and some of our brands have been positive. And as you well know, we did not see that last March. So, there's reason to be optimistic, but it is early still.

Yeah, I think they've been actually not as important as they might have been in past times and we're really seeing weather as an impact. Spring break and vacations kind of stimulating some things, but not as much as those bigger buildups, but really we are consistently on our best product and our best place. And then, as Jack pointed out, there is some discussion of the tax refund. So, I don't know if you want to fill in on that.

Thank you.

Yes, we are seeing it in both segments right now as the continue -- the consumer continues to prioritize spend in different ways. We've said in Famous that the consumer continues to prioritize kids purchasing, so that has continued, and then, also, very much demanded on the styles and the items that they do like and the brands that they really favor, which fortunately we have. Over on the Brand Portfolio side, we're seeing the same thing in terms of newness and trend delivering it.

And so, I think what you'll see is on our websites and our continued messaging and communications, we're continuing to focus on new item launches, new styles and new drops. And we're seeing that both in Men's and Women's. And then, over to Famous, one of the things we will be adding to all stores this year is, as we go into back-to-school, it's really the focus on two trend tables as you walk into the stores to really call out these key messages so we can continue to make that impact. And then, as we continue to build the FLAIR store concept, we'll continue to bring that to its fullest extent. So, you'll see a lot more from us on that, but for sure, it's consumer reacting in both segments very specifically by style, by SKU.

And then the last thing I'll say is that our SPEED program really allows us to really meet that demand much better as we continue to bring in more product earlier, particularly online, and then get back into it exactly how the consumer is demanding. So, it's been a very good approach for this timing right now.

I don't think we've seen an effort on that. Retailers are continually monitoring their inventories well and they're just reordering more and it's less upfront but that's something that we were used to and actually our model allows us to fill into. So, we haven't seen the effect on that as of yet. But right now, I would say that's where we are. And, yeah, I don't see any change in that right now.

Yeah, it continues to model in a very dynamic moment as we get more into position in stores, we'll see some of that shift into other places where we do slightly more business in the stores and less of that dropship need. We are looking at our wholesale business really as a complete ecosystem. And so, we're continuing to manage the total and in a really omni way. So, we'll see variations of that, I think start to ebb and flow. And then again, as demanded items continue to be more built, the consumer will continue to find them in whatever way we choose to fulfill them. But right now, I don't have any major swings on that to report.

Thanks.

Okay. So, first on Famous, the Kids business is -- we have about a 50% penetration in total athletic on our Famous business. That position skews much higher in Kids as they continue to focus on athletic shoes there. But we are also seeing a lot of our big brands work very well there. Just to name a few, we have Crocs business that's continually strong in kids. Hey Dude business that's turned out nicely. And then, Skechers, and then obviously Nike is the biggest one there. We're also seeing newer brands like Birkenstock continue to go in, and then new offerings from brands like Adidas worked very well in Kids. So, anyway, I would say the brands that work very well at Famous continue to work totally, work very well in kids, but we do see a distortion on athletic.

And then finally, with your Brand Portfolio question, I hope it's everything that you said and as the consumer continues to respond to it. We're doing more new launches of products. We'll see more limited drops as we go through. We're seeing more collaborations. As we mentioned, there were two in Dr. Scholl's. You'll see more on that from Alan Edmonds and then obviously Sam Edelman's anniversary campaign events that go throughout the entire year. So, we're going to continue. And then we have two new collaborations coming up with Naturalizer, but you'll see more and more of this coming through from us all the way through the year. So, stay tuned. We'll have much more to report.

Okay, thank you. Before we close today, I would like to thank the talented Caleres team for their focus, hard work and dedication. We're confident in our plans for 2024 and beyond as we execute on our long-term strategies. We believe Caleres is well-positioned to continue to build our powerful brands, create exceptional products that exceed our consumers' expectations, and deliver financial results that drive significant value for our shareholders.

Thank you all for joining us this morning, and thank you for your interest in Caleres and have a great day.