Jay Bray
Mr. Cooper Group Inc. (COOP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And if you look back in even a decade ago, when we bought the BofA portfolio it was $200 billion, and we boarded it in nine months. And to Chris's point, the level of sophistication today, level of investment we've made, obviously we're much more capable today. So I think we can handle pretty much any size and without any issues, is the way I think about it.

Yes. I think that we’re planning on keeping it at that level. I think we have probably what I’d say is outperformed in both directions over the last quarter, when the portfolio was going up, we had a little bit less than 75% coverage, which was great, which means that we didn’t lose as much on the hedge.

And when the mark was going down, we did better. So we gained a little bit more on the hedge. So I think our hedge effectiveness over the last couple of quarters has been really good, but we’re still targeting that 75%. And I think as we continue to acquire new current coupon portfolio,, we’ve got a little bit of kind of loans that are going to be in the money if we see a rate rally. And we think that can really give us sort of the upside potential against the remaining 25%.

Yes. And if you look in total, we’re still in kind of a single-digit market share. And so I think there’s plenty of room to grow from there. And if you look at other sectors in financial services, payments, processing – other processing businesses, you certainly see consolidation to a few players. And so I think that makes sense for the servicing business as well. I mean it’s a scale business.

You have to be able to invest in the technology, et cetera. And so we don’t have any concerns about continuing to grow the platform. And the key for us is sustainability, right? We’ve invested heavily in technology and compliance and risk. And so those are real key strengths of the company and we'll continue to focus on those. We feel good about future growth prospects.

Yes. Michael, to be specific, if you look at our co-issue correspondent DTC business, where we can maintain the portfolio and grow it slightly. So we have a sustainable model without any bulk acquisitions. But I mean, look at our track record over the last 25 years from a bulk acquisition standpoint, and I think it speaks for itself, there's always going to be portfolios in the market and as you've seen us execute the last few years, when we will get our fair share of those. So I think from a growth standpoint, we feel very good about our existing kind of origination channels and the co-issue channel and the bulk opportunities are going to be there. And so I think we feel really good about it.

Thanks everybody for joining us and we look forward to further conversations. Thank you.
