Jay Geldmacher
Resideo Technologies, Inc. (REZI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. I would add also, Ryan, that I talked, I think we've been talked about in our last call together, that is supply chain has continued to improve, the input costs continued to be trend in a favorable fashion. And that has continued, including between material componentry, and, of course, freight, which is a good thing. And that's just going to continue. And that the various actions that we've talked about that you guys are just talking about, over the last couple of quarters, cost actions, impacts, provides a benefit to us on the gross margin expansion. So I think between what I had said, as well as what Tony had said, that, we feel very positive about the opportunity there for further margin expansion.

Yes. Thanks, Eric. As we indicated, this legacy hardware program that Tony talked about in terms of end of that program into 2025. But as I've not just stated today, but I've indicated for quite some time, our relationship with them is very good. And we spend a lot of time on that. And so we're continuing to talk about other opportunities. And we'll keep you guys informed.

And I'd also add just a couple of summary. Of course, the input cost, I talked about that before in the last call, our cost actions that we've been taking. The price piece that Tony just talked about, of course, the leverage opportunity when the market begins to come back. But just a couple of additional comments, the portfolio optimization piece that we've been talking quite a bit about. And then the proof of the pudding is things like Genesis, as well as operational optimization, like when we closed off the San Diego facility, move that to an offshore third party. We have other opportunities there. And we will share more of those.

And the other that I wanted to just mention is because with our heavy focus on MPI, just in terms of bringing more new products to market, but also with that then looking at opportunities with more growth tied to MPI, but also margin expansion with new products. So all those wrapped together, I think, is a great way of summarizing. We're not just relying on one or two pieces, we're, I think we have a good plan of attack with all the different items that we've mentioned here between Tony and I.

I would agree with that. And I would just say not losing prices is a very important piece and as the market, we all know we're all watching, what's happening out there in the world in terms of inflation, and with supply chains that have normalized, then you are going to be in -- we're in a situation then that there's a little more competition competitiveness out in the marketplace that we see for both businesses.

You also asked about, I think, Danny right on security, MPI or MPI in general? I'll make comment on MPI in general. And I've said it before, but it's worth saying again, I mean, we have MPI is very important to us in terms of capturing additional market share, looking at opportunities to expand our total reach in the market in terms of share with new products. We mentioned, this time and before about content in a home. And we also mentioned about being able to add a bunch of additional wins with our RNC builder community. One of the reasons with that is the expansion of our footprint in each one of those new homes. And as we continue to do that, we will have more new products that are able to expand our footprint there.

So focusing on the velocity of new products in each one of the segments we serve is a big focus for us and that's why I have highlighted not just today, but through the past few quarters, the number of new products that we are bringing to market and there'll be more to share.