Jay Mazelsky
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (IDXX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. And then -- and just to add some color to Brian's remarks. Yes, the end-market appears to be stabilized and healthy. There's good underlying client and pet owner demand, if you take a look at both practice revenue and clinic revenue, it was about 5% in the fourth quarter. From a positioning standpoint, I think customers appreciate the technology solutions that we bring across in all the diagnostic testing modalities. Even more so with software, I think there's a new hunger for really looking at tools that can help them run their practices better, whether it's workflow productivity play, communications, client and internal communications, but also as part of the delivery of care and the way it all integrates. So I think the assumption is that customers will continue to work through some of the capacity challenges that they've had and looking for tools and partnerships to be able to do that. And we're especially, I think, well positioned to help them.

Yes. Just some follow-up commentary on the inVue launch. Customers, I think, very excited to learn more about that, as well as our commercial organization. Talking to the customers who are looking for help with those very high-volume relevant tests that they do today, I think, with the ear cytology and blood morphology, it certainly fits into that profile. It helps address what I think is a gap from a care standpoint. Especially on the blood morphology standpoint where they'd like to do more blood morphologies, but due to the complexities and variability and time constraints with slides, they don't always do as many as they would like. to do. So we're very excited by that. And I think it fits the marketplace and it fits that need. And importantly, it doesn't add work. It's not moving work around. It eliminates work that would otherwise practices are left with. So I think it hits on both the cylinders of delivering excellent medical care but also workflow productivity improvements.

Sorry, Michael, you had also asked about the pricing piece. Keep in mind that pricing is -- there's a mix of combination by different customer types. And so there's not a single way to talk about it. We obviously have corporate customers who may be under longer-term contracts, as well as different program effects. So we think that the 5% debt that we provided as a guide both reflects -- is commensurate with the value that we're delivering and very much in line with what customers see from an IDEXX contribution standpoint. Keep in mind, we don't set the pet owner price. That's up to the veterinarian to decide how they decide to price that and mark it up. And typically, there's an uplift that they factor into their practice management systems. And they obviously price through differentiation -- and not just differentiation in terms of the test itself, but also the medical services piece of it.

Yes. So let me talk a little bit about inVue and some of the key opinion leader feedback. We've had a number of key opinion leaders involved as part of the upfront definition and development of inVue. So there's -- we typically do involve them when we're bringing something new to the market, new to the world like this. I think the exciting thing from their perspective is that you're looking at cellular structures, including intracellular structures within their natural state. When you prepare a slide, it's a 2D, I don't want to use the word squish, but I'll use the word you're sort of squishing it. So you're getting a non-natural look at it. When you have a three-dimensional view and can interrogate it in that natural state, you see things that you don't otherwise -- you wouldn't otherwise see and are able to provide differential diagnosis from that. So they're very excited by that. I think veterinarians, in general, are very excited by the fact that you don't have to prepare a slide. They know they spend 10 to 20 minutes on that. It's technique-sensitive, it's highly variable. Therefore, the output in interpretation is variable. So having a solution like that, that's relevant, that's something that they -- is well understood, I think they're very enthusiastic about that. With respect to innovation this year and announcing innovation, not going to talk about that. At this point, we're constantly innovating our product development pipeline, and funnel is filled with very interesting activities. And as we get closer to launch of particular assay or software or instrument, then we talk about it and then we'll disclose more.

Yes. So with respect to the point-of-care platform launches. We have a very well-defined tried and true method of developing platforms, putting it in the hands of customers, getting feedback in terms of how it works within a real operating environment. We know that there's a difference between bench-top development and what you see within the clinic when we launch something and begin shipping it. We want to make sure that the average time between support events are four, five, six years. These are world-class levels of performance. And our customers expect that of us. We don't want to premature launch and maybe have issues that are disruptive to the practice environment. So we're comfortable with what we've guided to in terms of the timing of that and making sure that it fits within software ecosystem and the overall operating environment of the practice itself. We're not further disclosing our next point-of-care platform other than what we've talked in the past, we have one, it's outside of the existing testing categories, and when we get closer to launch, we'll talk about it.

Yes. Our markets have been very competitive for a long time. I think new ownership hasn't really changed that dynamic. Some of our competitors were also partners with on the clinical services and equipment side. Customers have a choice. Our focus is on continuing to innovate to help address the challenging problems they have in the practice, whether it's capacity constraints, whether it's introducing new testing solutions, to give them better medical results. What we find at the end of the day is customers appreciate the integrated nature of our offering, the ability to generate seamless user-friendly, customer-friendly way these critical insights that inform great medical decisions that help produce outcomes and do it productively. That's where our focus is and that's where our focus is going to remain.

Okay. Thank you. So we don't have further questions. So with that, thank you for your questions. We'll now conclude our Q&A portion of this morning's call. It's been a pleasure to review another quarter of strong IDEXX results. In summary, IDEXX is well positioned to sustain the momentum we've built into 2024, which will continue to help us address the significant decades-long opportunity to raise the standard of care for companion animal health care. Our consistent strategy focused on supporting increased utilization of diagnostics is a key factor in elevating the standards of care and has helped us navigate the highly dynamic external environment in our sector. We look forward to continued strong execution against our strategic priorities by teams across IDEXX as we move forward through 2024 and beyond. So thank you for your participation this morning, and we'll now conclude the call.