Jay Snowden
PENN Entertainment, Inc. (PENN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good questions, Joe. And starting off with the search for the new Head of Interactive. Look, we've been working with the Levy's per month really throughout fourth quarter of 2024 and thinking through, we have a very deep bench at PENN and who can step up as they exit within the team and we feel like we've got some great answers to that question. We actually spent a lot of time in Toronto a couple of weeks ago and we've got such a deep bench on the engineering side and on the product side, great marketers in the business. So a lot of this is that we needed the time to make sure that we have a plan in place that by the time the Levy's depart that people are already communicated to and stepping up.

We also started a quiet search in the fourth quarter because we didn't want this to get out in advance and create uncertainty and we're very far along in that process. I can't comment on exactly where we are but you should rest assured that we're very deep in the process. We're very close and we're very excited on the level of talent that we are considering is incredible. And I think the market will see it that way when we announce what we're doing but I just can't -- I can't communicate any further on that today. We feel good about the time line with the levies leaving in April that we should have something announced obviously before that and we're working to have this be a super seamless transition where the new Head of Interactive would be there at that time, maybe a little sooner, maybe a little after but not have a gap in leadership. So that's the plan right now and we'll continue to communicate when we can publicly more about that.

The second part of your question is a good one, the 7% share that we're seeing currently? And what does that look like a couple of years out? I'll take a step back for a second because I think there's as we sit here today and how we're thinking about the business, we're 3 months into this ESPN BET post launch. And there's a lot of positives that you can see in those first 3 months. First, obviously, ESPN and the strength of that brand is on full display. And they've been amazing partners. They've continued to under promise, over deliver. We think we're getting something in February. It shows up in December. They give us a lot of extra value add beyond what they're required to in our $150 million marketing partnership which is great.

We saw a really strong app performance and stability. And we've had very good early ratings in the iOS App Store. We launched in 17 states simultaneously, the first time that's ever been done. And we also just went through our first Super Bowl with tremendous load and we got through their knock on wood because the teams did such an amazing job preparing and we had no hiccups, 100% uptime. So we feel really good about those 2 things.

Obviously, we shared in a number of slides that are customer acquisition has been very, very strong. That's what drove the promo cost being so much higher than we anticipated with over 1 million downloads and deposits and betters in the first 2 months, we thought it would take us a year to get to that. that speaks to very, very efficient customer acquisition costs in those first 2 months, something that we never could have imagined.

And then, of course, on the retention side, we're in a great spot. If you look at Slides 7 and 8 in our presentation, you can see that we're already in a very, very strong position, a very firm number 3 position with regard to weekly active users in online sports betting. And obviously, we've picked up significant MAUs in online casino as well. And so what we're seeing there also is that our cash handle as a percentage of total handle has grown month over month over month from November to December to January which means that people are weaning off of those early promos, they're dipping into their wallets, making deposits and continuing to play with us. And we're growing the market. We have a couple of slides on that as well.

And I think as we sit here today, the opportunity, of course, is to close the gap of the market share -- handle market share that you referenced of 7% and what we're seeing on our share of weekly active users which is more like double that number. And so the fact that we're seeing weekly active users at a very stable level means that we've got a lot of people that have downloaded deposited and bet, they like the app. They're coming back to the app on a regular basis but we just don't have our fair share of the market yet in terms of how much time they're spending in the app. But I view that as a positive because we know that our ability to grow our share of wallet and improve the monetization of our users is going to come from 2 things which is product enhancements. We're very well on our way. We've been so busy, as I mentioned in our initial opening comments with launches and migrations that our teams haven't had the ability to really focus on features and functionality. And now we can because we've got most of that behind us. We get North Carolina launch but we've done so many state launches that's not going to be as time consuming.

So we need to enhance our same game parlay offerings, player pops, live betting, in-game betting. And, of course, deeper integrations with ESPN and that's happening and will continue to happen and more with the ESPN Media app, more with the fantasy app. So that's what's in front of us. And we believe that if you can -- if we can be a 7% handle market share, in the early days with these things that we know are sort of at first inning or second inning of a game, we feel really good about where those are going to take us over the course of the next 12 months, 18 months, 24 months. So we don't anticipate that 7% is going to be as good as it gets by any means. We think that the market share is going to be growing steadily as we continue to make product improvements and add more deep integrations with ESPN.

And to your question, if we were to be at 7% a couple of years out, could we be profitable? The answer to that is yes. What we don't know as we sit here today is how many more states will legalize from a sports betting and online gaming perspective. But you should feel as though 7% and above is a level that we could definitely generate a profit. Obviously, we would want to have our iCasino market share close to those levels as well. So that's the way that we -- as we say here today, that's the way that we view things after the first 3 months. It's really early, obviously but the number 1 focus was all the things I mentioned and we're thrilled to see that retention looks really good after 3 months.

Yes. The way we think about it, Joe, is that if we can get the level of integrations between media and sports betting in the U.S. between ESPN and the fantasy app, of course and into ESPN BET that we should be able to get those percentages to be about the same here. So we're on it. There's really there aren't disagreements or a lack of alignment between us and ESPN on what those integrations will be. Obviously, we're looking forward to bet slip integrations. We're looking forward to fantasy integrations.
We think we'll have a lot of that complete by the time we get to football season. It's hard to peg today. If it's all going to be done by September, some of it's going to be in the fourth quarter. But we feel really good and we have a lot of alignment with ESPN on just how important it is. I continue to be really impressed at how many resources that they are putting against ESPN BET. This is a big part of a growth opportunity for ESPN and they're as excited about it as we are. But we should be able to duplicate here in the U.S. with the stats that you're referencing in Ontario, Joe.

Yes. I would say, Carlo, without giving exact detail that we anticipate promo as a percentage of handle going forward to be really at market levels. We're not anticipating being the highest we're not anticipating being the lowest. It probably will fluctuate a little bit month-to-month depending on what we have going on around March Madness integrations with ESPN. If we -- because remember, a lot of that is driven by top of funnel. And so the more successful you are in driving people into the ecosystem, you're going to peak in that particular month. And so there's probably not going to be a lot of volatility during the late spring and summer months with basically MLB but I think it depends on how successful we are in North Carolina could drive that number higher, of course, in March. When we launched in New York, I would expect it to bump of course but pretty steady otherwise to be right at market. We're not -- our goal is not to be higher or lower than where most others are which is depending on the state right around 3%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, right in that range.

Yes. And we didn't mean to be confusing there but we'll have all 4 done and open in the first half of '26, could 1 or 2 of them hit late '25 Yes. So we really haven't changed. We just thought to be clear to say you should expect all 4 to be open and operating in the first half of '26 but it will be opening the 4 of them between late '25 and mid '26.

No, I think your back of the envelope math is right, Shaun and that's a level that gets us to this interactive result on the EBITDA line. We anticipate that it's going to continue to ramp as we get toward the end of the year and football season from, we've got a lot of product enhancements and deeper integrations with ESPN planned over the course of the next 3, 4, 5, 6 months, really targeting September to be ready for football season. So I would expect that fourth quarter should be a quarter that you see that start to really come together. And I think we would be exiting 2024 with real momentum from a handle market share perspective given the enhancements to the overall experience that I mentioned earlier. So that's the math.

We're not really super focused on where we are today on market share. It's where we're going to be in September and beyond. I think it will probably fluctuate around where we're at now given the stability that we've seen in daily, weekly and monthly active users, we make more enhancements to the product. I think it becomes more sticky. You start to get more share of wallet. Some of the newer players, you've brought into the ecosystem. I think they spend more time on the product. They go from betting once a week to twice a week. And so we think that's really going to ramp up. And we picked up so many new users. We covered that a couple of times that it takes the pressure off of us to feel like we need to continue at that pace. It's probably not possible. But we have 2 great state launches, 9% of the U.S. population.
We can continue to be sort of at market with regard to our new player, new deposit sign up. We're not looking to lead the market but certainly be at market. And let the ESPN brand and all the integrations take care of the rest. That's a recipe that we think makes a lot of sense and it's tremendously efficient as we go. But you're correct in your back of the envelope, although we expect to be ramping towards the end of the year into '25.

Yes. I'll talk about kind of high level where we think we are and where we want to be and then I'll let Todd jump in on sort of what's been happening in the last couple of months because a lot of that's been done with focus and intention as we continue to drive top of funnel demand. I think today, based on the mix, we're seeing a higher Parlay mix today than we've ever seen which is great. But we're still below market and we know that our Parlay mix, though it's continuing to get better. We've got a little ways to go on pre-package, prepopulated Parlay offerings and sort of a Parlay lounge that you can go to and much like the top competitors of ours have today. That's something that we actually feel like it's all upside from here. So we're probably more at that 7% to 8% kind of theoretically today but we'll be continuing to gradually build that up to double digit. I think it's just a matter of time, Shaun, before we get that Parlay mix and especially on the same game side which is where we're not as strong today but we're going to continue to put a lot of focus and energy there from a product enhancement standpoint between now and football season that we should be able to catch the others over time. But it may not be done in 2024 but I don't think it's going to go beyond 2025, given that we can now focus so many of our resources on product enhancements and features in UI/UX as opposed to just deploying state launch, deploying resources around state launches and migrations. Todd, do you want to speak a little bit about what we've seen so far.

Yes. Barry, the way we've gotten that question quite a bit. The way to think about that is -- this is the way I was described by Disney, I'm not speaking for them but just repeating what they said on their call. This is really about content distribution. It's about getting in more households and on more devices as people have continued to move away from cable. This is another option to have a streaming package that would include ESPN and ESPN content. So you should anticipate that if you're watching ESPN today, whether that's digitally streaming or you're watching that on linear that as you see integrations in the shows on ESPN that, that would carry over to this new streaming platform as well. Sports Center is still Sports Center and Get Up and still Get Up and the integrations in those shows would be as they are today. It's just a matter of providing more access to ESPN to more people in the country.

Yes. I mean, look, our position is we'll continue to be looking at opportunities, whether those are acquisitional opportunities or Greenfield as those opportunities present themselves. And that hasn't changed. That won't change. If there's a great opportunity and we think we can generate value in an investment and that's something we're going to strongly consider sometimes that's easier said than done. Las Vegas Strip, there's very limited opportunities and nothing really hot at the moment. if there's a new state, then that's something that we would be taking and have been taking a hard look at, obviously, nothing is imminent at the moment but we're continuing to keep the tires; that won't change.

So you should assume, Brandt, that what we've said previously is consistent with how we feel today. It's going to be roughly matching the on-channel spend with ESPN. That's a number that obviously we can flex. But we think that's a good target. That's sort of what's built into our modeling for 2024. It gives us plenty of dry powder to utilize for state launches. You should think about that spend as being much more performance-based marketing spends and probably more targeted. Obviously, the ESPN spend is almost entirely national and some of the off channel is national as well. But a lot of it is performance and more local and regional focused.

Yes. I think the deposit information that you're referencing goes back to what I mentioned. I mean you can see in the weekly active user numbers, monthly active user numbers, we've got engagement. That's not an issue. And we've got really good ratings on the iOS store app. So we feel really good about that. I think our job is to continue to improve the products and get deeper integrations with ESPN and eliminate friction, so that we can get people more seamlessly from ESPN's ecosystem, whether that's media, fantasy and the like over to ESPN BET when they're ready to engage in bedding. So I think the deposits is really a function of we don't have our share of wallet yet. We're getting the deposits, we're probably not getting the same size of deposits as we are with maybe the top competitors but I'm confident in saying that we're one of 3 or maybe 4 apps on their phone and they're on our app and they're placing wagers, I think they're waiting for more enhancements. And I think that that's okay.
Our ability to keep people engaged is taking care of itself now. And I think that any that have gone -- that will have gotten dormant by the time we get to a football season next year, we can reactivate quickly because of our relationship with ESPN and the product is going to continue to get better and better. So we feel great. I mean we have over 1 million new people in the database. Most of them are engaged with us on a regular basis, as you can see on Slide 8. And we just have to build out the relationship, the loyalty and earn more share of wallet as we go and I think you'll see deposit growth come along with that.

Yes. I mean, look, we have a pretty recent history of buying back shares when it makes sense for us and that's the best use of capital allocation. And right now, as we've covered in this call, we're investing in a high-growth business that's going to generate a lot of value for our shareholders long term. So that's the priority. It doesn't mean that you can't do or won't do anything else. It just means that right now, that is the number 1 priority.

Sure. I mean, look, we're -- Todd will have some comments on this as well. We're in the very early stages, as you referenced, I mean, we're 3 months here. So we've built up a really nice database. We know where they live. We know how the proximity is we talked about, 1/3 of them within 50 miles of one of our retail businesses. So we're going to start working on that now. That's not something that we've had a lot of time to get going on. But we're very excited about the cross-sell opportunities that a lot of new people into the database. Our overall database is now approaching 30 million people. It feels like just yesterday we were at 25. So that's a big opportunity for us. Todd, anything that you want to add overall?

And I think just your other part of the question on cross-sell to iCasino. You can see from the monthly active user slide that we have on Hollywood Casino that cross-sell has been great. Again, it's one of those -- our product today, I would say, is good but it's got to be great. And we're working on that diligently as well with our product team and we think that we can see our market share from a handle perspective, continue to grow probably to what our daily active and monthly active user share us.

Frank, why don't we have one more question, please?

Yes. Bernie, we think it's both. We definitely have a lot of new users. So we think we feel strongly we've grown the market. And so that's going to take a little bit of time to grow their play to be commensurate with maybe somebody that's been betting on online sports betting for the last 3 or 4 years. I think most of it, however, though, is a share of wallet that we are one of the apps people have on their phone. They're using the app. They're on the app. We see all of that in the data and we're getting a smaller portion of their wallet than we are of how many people are actually using the app. And so on a percentage basis, I think this is exciting for us.
Slide 8, I think, says a lot about where we think we can get to in -- it's not going to take us a really long -- that's not a 5-year journey. We think that's something that we can accomplish in the next couple of years if we really get our product to where it needs to be. And of course, the deeper integrations with ESPN, we think integrations with the fantasy app with ESPN is going to be a huge shot in the arm. We anticipate that happening before the end of the year. obviously, targeting football season. We'll see if we can get there. But it's a combination of the two but the fact that people have the app, they're using the app, we just need to build more loyalty with those users overtime.

Thanks everybody for joining us and we look forward to sharing more with you next quarter.