Jean-Michel Ribiéras
Sylvamo Corporation (SLVM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. We can. Good morning, George.

George, I will start by your second question and John will take the first one. So we thought our timberland is key to our competitiveness and it’s really a key advantage. The reason why we updated appraisal is we think it was undervalued and that’s the only reason. We continue to invest in it and I think this is a base, exactly as you mentioned, of long-term competitiveness, which we count on. Our fiber is key in our paper advantage. John, on cost…

And concerning what you were asking about Europe export overseas, we export very little from Europe to overseas. Our production in Europe mostly remain in Europe and we have a very few going to Middle East, Africa. So it’s really not impacting us so far significantly.

Mostly, I would say, George, it’s cut size. That’s what’s easier to export. So mostly you see from Asia are the cut size and the role in the offset business because of the various sizes that you have to have, it’s much more difficult for any exporter that matter not to say Asia to export. But the role that the commercial playing.

I think, George, it’s a good question. I think it’s impacting. From the trough, the pulp prices in Europe have gone up €160 from last year trough to today. So it is for sure impacting the non-integrated players in Europe and that’s maybe one of the reasons why we are seeing operating rates back up high in Europe and having a very strong demand. It might impact it. We also know the inventory correction in Europe is behind us and industry inventory are quite low actually right now in paper. So multiple factors, but pulp price has an impact.

I don’t, but I would -- I don’t have the number precisely. So all I can make is...

Maybe guess -- a very high level guess and it might be about 10%.

So, George, I cannot give you an exact price, but I can give you a trend. We saw the same RISI report you did. As you mentioned it, we do not report to -- our pricing to RISI. I would say on a trend, RISI might have the direction correct, but we have seen in the past that, in absolute value, we see it differently.

So in our outlook, mostly from third quarter, actually, we expect slight erosion in North America, not a huge one, a slight one. And at the same times we expect -- because of two price increases we have announced to our customers in Europe and in Brazil and LatAm, we expect price increase on the other regions.

Yeah. So 2023, as you know, in Europe was difficult. It was a trough in terms of demand. The prices of pulp, which affect a lot our Saillat mill went down. We had an annual outage in Saillat, which costed us $20 million. We had an annual outage in the fourth quarter in Nymolla. We had an issue with the turbine we mentioned in the Saillat mill, which is over now, which costed us $5 million and it was really the trough of the cycle in terms of prices.

So we clearly see 2024 rebounding significantly and hope to very soon be talking about positive earnings for Europe. So we are quite positive about Europe. It’s more cyclical than any other businesses. So sometimes it’s a bit frustrating, but on average, we really believe Europe would be good, Nymolla is performing very well, Saillat is performing well, order book, as I mentioned, is good and we have seen price increasing. So Europe is rebounding significantly. It’s tailwind for 2024.

I think you -- some of our competitors talked about the same thing we did on some plantations about six years to seven years ago, where those plantations have suffered under the seven-year cycle of drought, natural causes, which have impacted and that has impacted all Brazilian forestry plantations. So we are not the only one. This is not the case anymore. But it’s been two years.

And we also, specifically, more significantly from our past companies, reduced some of our investments in the forestry during those years, which we are -- it’s a six-year, seven-year cycle. So we are seeing the impact of that now, which is why we have had to go more outside market than we usually do and we wanted to solidify the need of wood, because there is a strong demand of wood in Brazil right now. So the demand is clearly strong. So the demand plus the natural causes which have reduced the productivity of plantation is an impact we are feeling and our strategic investment in the very valuable forestlands we have will make up for that.

With the investment we have made we feel like we are well set.

Thank you.

Yeah. Just thank you, first of all, for joining the call. We are a cash flow story. In 2023, we generated $294 million in free cash flow and returned $127 million to shareholders. We allocate capital to increase shareholder value, we use cash to maintain a strong balance sheet, return cash to shareholders and we invest to strengthen our business, and we are confident in our ability to generate strong earnings and free cash flow through the cycle. We are confident for 2024.