Jeff Simmons
Elanco Animal Health (ELAN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks Jon. We’ve made a lot of progress and would say that Zenrelia will be the fastest product in the history of Elanco in globalizing the major innovation, so nine major markets we’ve made submissions in, and it’s very similar, I think to the U.S. on these submissions or final submissions in the case of about a year. It varies from Japan to Australia to Europe, but if you figure that, we count on this being an early 2025 mode when we would start to get these approvals.

Yes Jon, no update today on the Zenrelia timeline. We continue really with no change in terms of just a very productive dialog with the FDA. We believe that market adoption, as we know, will be driven on value and execution, but again the dialog with the FDA is going well, no change.

When there is change, of course, we’ll be announcing approval, and if there’s any change to that, we’ll let you know, so no change at all.

Yes, thanks Erin, and thank for the focus from you and Jon. As you know, we’re excited about entering the derm market. It will be a new market for us. We’ve got Zenrelia followed by our IL-31 short acting, both of these being differentiated assets, and our next wave of innovation that Ellen has made a lot of progress on and her team this year and bringing more products into development into our pipeline in derm, there will be added assets, so this is a market we’re going to be in and be a key player in, in the decade.

I think we come back consistently as we look at this market and see that there are still a lot of unmedicalized dogs that are leaving vets without being treated. There’s a strong desire for more choice by vets and pet owners, and these fundamentals we believe matter, that this is a market that wants choice, and it’s globalizing, as Jon just referenced as well. I would emphasize that we continue to feel strongly that our differentiation is going to be--is key as well.

When you look at how we’re going to launch this product, maybe just a couple points. First of all, we keep coming back to the two most important pillars, our value and then execution. Value gets around the differentiation in the product, the product itself, the portfolio that it’s going to be in, and then as you look at execution, the first thing that we really focused on, Erin, was getting the share of voice at a level that can be extremely competitive, and we believe we’re there now. We’ve got this sales force in place out there, selling parvo, preparing--and you know, we need to create share of voice high enough to create awareness at the vet clinic so that when the product gets into the market, that vet clinic is aware, and then we will start to turn up additional factors like digital and DTC, so that’s going to be the staged approach.

We’re still looking at distribution. The great news is we’ve got lots more options with distribution, given our ERP set-up. We will intend to price to value and focus--you know, we believe innovation will be rewarded and differentiation will be rewarded, so we will focus on a value-based pricing approach relative to our differentiation.

I think the last thing is what derm does with us now is it adds the fourth pillar - we’ve got para, we’ve got therapy and we’ve got the vaccines, and we think as we look at corporates and other vet clinics, other segments, that fourth pillar, having derm in that total portfolio is going to give us advantage, and that will be a key part of our launch strategy as well, Erin.

Thank you.

Yes, maybe just a comment here. Here’s how we’re looking at it. I mean, we are concentrating our focus, let me be very clear, on pet health and livestock sustainability, and both of these decisions, both the sale of our aqua business and the restructuring we announced today, is all around creating enough resources to win and align to our pipeline in these bigger markets with greater earnings potential with these large blockbuster differentiated assets that we have. We have no intention of making any more strategic decisions here relative to other segments.

Really, I would highlight coming to the restructuring, we’re doing really three things, as my comments that I made this morning. We’re shifting resources into these markets, pet health and livestock sustainability. Think in Europe - we’re going to move to much more of a B2B approach in pigs and put a lot more resources in pets.

Second is we’re going to capitalize on this ERP implementation that’s now done and concentrate roles in strategic areas, and then lastly and importantly is we’re going to transition our business model in non-strategic markets, like Argentina. We’ve got about 90 countries we’re in, about 45 of them we’re in with people, and we’re moving some additional markets like Argentina into what we’re doing in the other 45, which is we’re using a distribution model. All of this allows us more resources that we can double down on these big areas, pet health and livestock sustainability.

Yes.

Yes, thank you very much. At the highest level just on the U.S. pet, I would step back and say we’ve made a lot of progress in U.S. pet overall. At the highest level, I think we’re much more competitive today. We’ve seen significant improvement in our overall engagement, our team, and I think the strategy is working that Todd just highlighted in terms of share of voice, physical availability, innovation and price, so we’re much more competitive as an organization today.

2023 was a strong year. If you step back and look, we saw an eight-point improvement sequentially from down minus-9 in 2022 to minus-1 overall, and I see this from the standpoint of stronger portfolios, more share of voice, a stronger team. We changed incentives for the sales force and just our overall portfolio is stronger when you start adding Bexacat, Zorbium, and now parvo, and parvo is opening a lot of doors for the vet clinic. As we step back, there’s no question we’re set up and we see nice growth coming ahead of our total global pet health business and farm animal business both contributing to growth in 2024.

No question the competitiveness in the vet clinic in the U.S. is high - I mean, without question. I would say there’s a few factors that we would note. There is always the seasonality and weather factors, there’s some economics we’ve seen, more on the retail side where there’s some trade-down, and the competitive pressure inside the vet clinic. I think we’re well positioned as we’re bringing innovation, as we’re--you know, there’s an anticipation of these blockbusters that are coming, and our omnichannel approach, being able to have the retail business complementing the vet clinic business. We’re probably better indexed relative to those vet visits than most companies.

Yes, thanks Umer. Yes, we’re excited about Credelio Quattro, and again, no update - the timeline continues, we continue to have productive dialog with the FDA. I think I would just back up and just make a couple comments. I think we know parasiticides is really an uninvolved category for pet parents and vets. Vet recommendation is key, so I come back to the core strategy, which is marking sure share of voice is high, and noted, yes, we’ve added our 75 reps, they’ve got experience, they’re in the field right now, and they’re trained and they’re adding value as we speak, selling parvo and other products, so we’ve got the share of voice.

Then the second is, yes, differentiation. We believe there’s a few fundamentals that are key as you look at differentiation. One is broader coverage is always better, and full solutions are definitely preferred by the veterinarian. The second is diagnostics that can match the disease, and there is evidence today with increased diagnostics Idexx and others around tapeworm, that this concern is there, and it’s a zoonotic concern as well, so I think that’s second. With more people and more focus, both on the diagnostic side and the animal health side, the awareness is higher, and that usually leads to more prevalence.

I think the last trend is zoonotic concerns, Umer, continue to be there, especially after COVID, and specific to tapeworms, look - one common tapeworm is transmitted by fleas, but there’s many tapeworms relevant to domestic dogs and have the potential to carry tapeworms, and that’s a serious disease impact, so we always say that if all else is equal, why wouldn’t you use a product with more coverage? So that’s our approach.

Again, we’ve got the right teams in place preparing for the launch, we’ve had a long history in parasiticides with the broadest portfolio in and outside the vet, and we’re excited to be bringing Quattro to the market.

Yes, first of all, Glen, thank you for the coverage and joining the interest in research on Elanco.

Yes, absolutely - the competitive pressure is there. I would believe, as I’ve said, we’re in a much stronger position with stronger teams, stronger portfolio, and I think a lot of the tactics that we’re doing relative to this. I think the anticipation of our innovation as well, Glen, really creates partnerships with distributors, corporate clinics and others. It’s opened a lot more doors, which has been strong.

I would say even the introduction--and an example, a proof point, if you point to the introduction of the latest broad spectrum parasiticide, what we’re actually seeing is more share taken within those and actually less share compared to other competitive launches taken from us, and I think that shows our differentiation, our segmentation, digital, all these things are working, so we’re set up well.

Relative to price, we’ve continued to execute price in a very value-based way, and more innovation always allows us to bring those prices, and we’ve not seen a pushback on price and continue to see strong resilience for the market and a lot of interest and adoption from the vet side of our products and our portfolio.

Yes, we have, again, been very consistent to the commitment of $600 million to $700 million. It isn’t all exact math, as you do see us--Todd, as a reference, you’re going to have Experior climb and you’re going to have some overlap in products that come out, such as an Optiflex. But yes, as we start to guide to the $350 million, $400 million this year before the new products, then with the launches of the new products and our IL-31 that we have coming in 2025, those products will contribute and, yes, we’re staying and feel very confident in our commitment to the $600 million to $700 million by the end of ’25. That is correct.

Yes, thanks Chris for the question on parvo. I’ll take that one first.

It did land in line with our expectations in the quarter, but the bigger news is, yes, we’ve demonstrated the ability to scale our 2000 liter, which gives us confidence that we’ve got the capacity and the supply to really go into the marketplace full force, and we’re doing that with our new sales force right now. The product is performing well - that’s very important.

I think another important note, Chris, is the product’s already in about 3,300 clinics, and more so with the general practitioners, which demonstrates that this is out there, there’s prevalence, and many clinics are seeing this. 73% of the adoption of those clinics is in general practitioners, 12 or so is in the shelter market, so we see the uptake initially. We’re seeing reorders as well, so we see this product being a key contributor to growth and a real step-up this year.

Then yes, we would--and we’ve launched also, just to highlight, we’ve launched a pretty significant defender campaign to really drive just awareness of parvo. Right out of the gate, we’ve got about 1.2 billion impressions in a social media marketing campaign that we’re doing. We’ve set a charge with the vet clinic industry and a pledge to save a million puppies by the end of the decade, so all of that, I think is just creating awareness, strong marketing, more share of voice.

Then yes, the next thing is we are starting to target key markets internationally where we can actually bring that product in, where there’s a higher prevalence of parvo. It might not be always the typical just a European market - there are other emerging markets as well with higher parvo, and we see blockbuster here potential as we globalize the product, so off to a good start. We’ll definitely be updating you quarter to quarter on some of the key metrics and the adoption.

Yes, thanks Chris. Real quick, as we’ve noted here on gating factors, we expect that upon approval, there’s typically a couple months before actually, you know, there is a launch, and that’s driven heavily by manufacturing, packaging, labeling, and that’s the typical gating factor. Then a lot of positive feedback, we had a tremendous interest and many, many applications and believe we selected a very experienced, strong sales force, and actually the transition has gone faster ad we don’t believe the distraction factor may be as high as we expected. We’re looking forward to that sales force with that added investment in the first half to help us ramp our existing sales here in the first half.

Yes Neven, on all of our products, actually, we see the future blockbusters with the differentiation, with our portfolio, we intend to price for value. We see this in past innovations that have been launched and we believe that innovation will be rewarded, and that will be part of our offering.

Then relative to just the overall portfolio, I would say no matter the segment, when you enter a clinic and have all four dimensions that I just mentioned, and derm will be the new one for us, it really puts us in a unique position as the next company to be able to do that, and that just gives that optionality to the vet. We’ll be looking at that against all segments, but I do think that will be a major factor and a major differentiator to most of the major animal health companies, to be able to have the breadth of the portfolio that we do have with the derm addition.

Yes, let me take the second one first. There’s no question we’re excited about Experior. Experior exceeded our $70 million run rate, it ended the year at $54 million, and with that growth and that trajectory we see and a shortage of cattle numbers, Experior plays into all of that relative to the value proposition, and then of course parvo will be a driver. One we don’t talk as much about, but with this restructuring we’re really adding significant investment in AdTab in Europe that had a good strong finish to the year, so those would be the three key that I would point to.

Look Brandon, I wouldn’t read into anything. Our confidence remains, our confidence in the differentiation remains. These are great assets. Our regulatory team is doing a great job and we’re in a very proactive, productive dialog with the CBM, and we’ll update you if anything does change.

I know we’re on time here, but I just want to say to everybody, thank you for the time. I think 2023, the second half really marks progress and momentum - two quarters at 5% constant currency growth, we doubled our innovation, we increased our debt pay down beyond our expectations, and as you look to ’24, the priorities remain the same - sustained growth on the top line, innovation and bringing innovation forward, and cash. Against all of those metrics, we have inside the guide strong expectations to continue to make great progress.

Thank you for your interest and your investment in Elanco. We look forward to a very exciting year and a year with high engagement with all of you.
