Jeff Lorberbaum
Mohawk Industries, Inc. (MHK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Let's start with last year. The interest rates increased throughout the year and our business declined with lower investments in housing and commercial projects. This year, we anticipate the reverse to occur. We are starting with the industry starting out slower and improving with consumer confidence and interest rates throughout the year. The US mortgage rates have declined from their peak and Brazil has already started to lower their rates. We anticipate Europe to lag given geopolitical risks, energy prices, and slower economies in the rest of our markets. We believe the business will strengthen in second half from these improved results from last year. We should also see an improvement in product mix as remodeling grows, we expect an extended period of higher demand as the economy recovers and our investments in new products, cost reductions, and expansion project should benefit our future result.

Sure. The segments we see -- that we think we're going to see more improvement in Flooring North America and the Ceramic businesses with remodeling in each category leading the way, we think Europe will take longer to improve where they're going to be pricing pressures, continuing in more in the flooring and panels business in the other categories that we have.

Just to remind everybody in Europe, they still have the higher energy costs, and the regulations make it a less dynamic marketplace, may get through. And then at the same time, their wages have increased more than the rest of the world impacting inflation.

Thank you.

In past cycles, it all starts with consumer sentiment. As it starts improving they start spending money on discretionary spending. And that then impacts the remodeling business, which the consumer as soon as they feel more comfortable about it can walk in the stores and start immediately. So that always starts it. The Central Bank's lowering interest rates then starts increasing the home resales, which is also a large part of that shows up in remodeling business, but it happens concurrently as you start. Then what happens is, with the lower rates, you have the builders start building more new homes and they start increasing. But just to remind you, they take longer because our products are putting almost right before they sell the home at the end. And then finally the piece that works is the -- you start planning commercial projects, but they take a longer time to complete and it works through one after the other.

Yeah. As we went through 2023 and the rates started going up, the commercial business slowed down. We expect it to continue to be slower. We think there is going to be a lag time between projects getting started, giving how tight the markets are for borrowing money, and the costs of borrowing money. And then what I described earlier was when the interest rates start falling, the projects will come in, but then the time it takes to start them before we actually feel it could be a year to a year and a half or more.

We're expecting the growth in the residential business to offset the decline in commercial, and so to have a growth in it even though the commercial is weaker.

So, I don't know how to predict the future, but in the past, what's happened is that when you get with low margins in the businesses, that the expectations of the sellers are high and the expectations of the buyers are low and you can't get together. So, as you start coming out and the margins start going back up, it's easier to align with valuations. So, anybody who has wanted to sell or wants to get out, it typically comes as you're in the first couple of innings of the coming out of it, and I would expect the same thing is going to happen this time.

So, it takes -- once you get the equipment running, you still have to align the sales with it, and it takes a while to get the -- you can't sell it before the equipment is up and running. So, it's coming up now and the sales are coming up and we would expect to fill it up as we go through the year.

It's too early to tell exactly. We have -- we're gaining commitments to fill it up and we think we'll get it filled up as we go through the middle of the year.

Thank you.

All we can do is get feedback. One is, we know our own volumes. We get feedback from our customers of how they see it. They're all pretty optimistic at this point about next year getting better, but there's no way to actually measure where the piece is and what's going to change it other than the things that impacted our consumer sentiment seem to have bottomed. So that helps as people gets the higher prices on homes and things. There is people have been postponing it. So it really comes down to gaining confidence in the pieces and it's not that much different than the other regions, if you want to know the truth. They're all in similar places.

And so as you see the pickup in the placement of samples and new materials in the marketplace and we strengthened in the -- through the second half as consumer sentiment if it improves, then that will position ourselves, as we go through the end of the year and into next year.

This is a comment as the -- if the business picks up as historical with remodeling, the mix also improves because they sell better products to home homeowners.

Given the capacities we have, we assume we are going to flex it up as it occurs. So you won't build the inventories in anticipation of it. If we were running at very high levels, you'd have to build some of it beforehand, but we are not intending to.

Thank you, Joe.

We haven't decided to do it yet. We can change whenever we determine at the short-term, we still see uncertainties in difficult financing conditions. We decided to pay off $900 million of debt in the first quarter. So we haven't decided to -- again, buying back stock at this moment.

So, the -- in the Flooring North America, the earnings did improve from lower costs, offsetting pricing, restructuring as well as productivity gains in the period. Then we continue to invest in all these different marketing activities and new product collections to drive business. We think it's going to carry over into the first quarter and continue on with the margins.

And I would say sequentially, so from -- if that's what you're seeking in, from Q4 to Q1, I think you've seen a lot of that [bottoming] (ph) out, and it should actually slightly improve again sequentially.

So, we focused in the restructuring actions late over the last 18 months of trying to take out high cost assets, aligning our capacity, and implementing other lower cost processes really across all three of the segments. Collectively, there are about $150 million of cost reductions that we should garner from these actions. Almost half of that has been realized in 2023. So, you get the remaining portion to flow through 2024. Of course, you're seeing some of that in 2023 being offset by other factors. We'll continue to evaluate the current situation and take actions as necessary to continue trying to drive improved results.

Let's start out with all the businesses are underutilized the capacities that we have. So, the goal is to drive the utilization of the present product categories and operations that we have as the business improved. On the other ones -- on the other product that we're investing in are the areas where before we went into this slowdown that were more constrained, and we're investing in those. Those include the LVT category, which we've -- in the process of changing the plants over and they should be filled up as we go through this year. We're introducing a new LVT renewable polymer core structure, that's going into the marketplace and being well accepted. In laminate, we're introducing new technologies and acoustics and durability to improve the use of those assets. Ceramic, we've putting products in that have differentiated color intensity, textures and three dimensional surfaces. Countertops -- but it's in every product category. So, the main objective is to use the assets that we own and drive them up as we go through. On the acquisition side, there are no pending acquisitions sitting at this moment that we're ready to close, is that we're always in the market to look at opportunities. But there's a large difference between buyers and sellers at the moment, which we discussed before. So, there's nothing immediate waiting to be closed at this point.

The -- was that an acquisition question or an investment question?

We just -- in Latin America, we completed two acquisitions. They are basically fully integrated. And so, there's nothing more to do in those. Those managements are taking care of those. We have a number of bolt-on acquisitions that we're finishing up and improving that we haven't got all the benefits across the world, which we've gone through at earlier points. Those are going through. We really don't have a specific piece that we need to drive. I guess, if I had to pick one, we have our insulation business, which the insulation business is growing. So, I would say that investing in additional assets in it would be done sooner than other ones to expand capacities in an additional area. And then on the acquisition side, it's really more where do we find the right acquisition that fits in with a business. We prefer bolt-on ones, because of the advantages you get by putting them together. But we would go into new geographies if we found the right product and the right management to drive it.

Thank you.

Built in our plans are a decrease in the commercial businesses, because what happens is you have the projects that were started a year to two years ago completing. As they complete, there's less being started. So, there's going to be a gap for a period of time. And then the mix. You're correct. The mix in commercial is higher. But we think it's going to be offset by gains in the residential business. And the mix in the consumer purchases in retail, which they buy higher quality products.

The whole category is under pressure as the volumes have dropped. As you would suspect in each category, the more commoditized products have more pressure than the differentiated ones. The carpets under pressure with both pricing and mix. The LVT prices have declined as the prices -- the import prices have come down, and there's also less volume being sold in the categories. So those might be a little worse than the others.

Thank you.

Let's first start out -- with imported products there's a long supply chain. So when the things move, it takes a while before it flows through into the marketplaces, and it has to be sustained for a while. So it's too early to tell. If they -- if the freight rates would move up and stay up it would flow through after the inventories were absorbed that are already in the market and the prices would rise. At this point, it's too early to decide if it's going to have any input and -- impact can be sustained.

What happened is, as you would suspect, it would have to flow into the cost of the product that would raise the prices and the prices in the marketplace will go up, and it would help our local manufacturing.

Yeah. So from Asia, you have the imports in Europe would be, mostly LVT. Then you have the ceramic is moving where the most aggressive players are in India, is that, so those two would be the most on the other side, we do ship product around the world. We ship high-end ceramic all over the place. We ship vinyl to the Middle East and other marketplaces. So it impacts those limited ways.

Thank you very much. We appreciate your interest in Mohawk. We believe we are well-positioned for the recovery that's going to come in the United States. Thank you for joining the call. Have a good day.