Jeffrey Mezger 
KB Home (KBH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Right, yes. I think I can take that. So, yes, thanks for the question. When we look at the change in the full year, it wasn't terribly significant move, it is about 2% at the midpoint, or about $150. You are right in saying, it was about $70 million a pull-forward into the fourth quarter and what happened in the fourth quarter, we had higher deliveries than we expected and then sales were a little bit lighter than what we were planning for.

So our year-end backlog came down a little bit more than what we were anticipating when we provided that guide, but I would term it, John, mostly as just refinement of the full-year guide, we do believe there is upside. We're trying to forecast the year based on the improved conditions that we have today, not necessarily looking at continued improvement as we go through the year. We're very encouraged by the start of the year in the first five week sales -- five weeks of sales that we've seen and remain optimistic about our potential in 2024.

Right. We had a relatively steady trend in 2023, a little less variability than what you normally see. It's been a pretty choppy market as you know. So we're trying to base everything of sort of current sales rates, current backlog margins, and what we're seeing embedded in the orders right now. Our current backlog margins are actually a little bit higher than our guide, but we always like to have a little bit of room there in case there's some contingencies related to either quick-moving units or continued for incentives or whatever.

So, yes. I would expect to see a relatively consistent gross margin profile for the year at this point in time. That said, we still have a lot of sales to make for the back half of the year and we'll have a better visibility of that as we get more into the spring selling season to see how that variability can go on the gross margin side. But we like the favorable economic trends you're seeing mortgage rates coming down, solid employment growing economy, pent-up demand for housing, the resale inventory tightness, all of those to me suggests opportunities to reduce concessions, which would be pretty much right to the gross margin line, to the extent we're able to do that if market conditions continue to improve.

Steve, I can start. First, thanks for the recognition on our -- the job we did in Q4. We’ve - over the last five years or six years, we've gone through kind of a whipsaw. We came out with returns-focused growth, we were working on lifting in our margins. So we kept our absorptions at four until we got our margins higher. Now our margins are higher and we keep using the term optimize the asset and every community is a different story, but I would expect that it's probably around five on average.

As we looked at 2023, we were soft coming into the year and then it picked up. Then it softened again later in the year. So we fully expect our absorptions in 2024 will be higher than 2023 for the year. So, I would think five a month market runs, we could go higher than that, but it's on per community analysis, how many last we have left is easily replaceable. How do you run it, how big is the community, I think five is probably a good number.

Yes, Rob, do you want to take that you can walk through, what we're doing and where we're trying to get to?

Robert, it's also for you.

We've built the year met based on current cycle times. So if we can continue to compress and Rob has got a lot of plans at play in order to do that as it could help us but we have spent steady-state when we're making our projections for.

Yes. Matt, we typically run about 25% unsold and we are up at 30%, it's about 300 units. So it's not a crazy number. And as the year unfolds, we'll see how our orders are on the built-to-order because we like the predictability of the delivery with a predictable margin and it's -- we are just saying it's far better. Typically, our inventory sales are running 2% to 3% points lower than built-to-order. So we would much rather prefer to keep running our business where we have for the last 15 years, but there is a certain phase where you have the starts to maintain in order to have your scale and your franchise in that city with a contractor base and we'll keep, and we'll get all the sales we can, the BTO sales for our X films, and inventory will do that.

Right. Yes, that's a good question, Mike. A couple of things. One, you're not seeing quite the same magnitude of change between our fourth quarter and first quarter, as we have in certain years. So, I think it's about a couple of 100 million bucks or so at the midpoint, which isn't a tremendous impact on the leverage but there is some leverage off here but fundamentally, it's just offset by other factors. And where we see the backlog coming through with the mix of deliveries that we expect in the first quarter that slightly higher margins than we've been tracking too. We didn't think we'd hit an inflection point in the fourth quarter with the low point of margin, which we have seen and we do expect, even though it's only up incrementally still up and hopefully we'll out in the rearview mirror for us. So those are really two main factors, just a mix of the business.

And I think the other thing is, we used to have a fairly large mix impact between the fourth quarter and first quarter between West Coast and somebody of the divisions. That's been moderated a bit, as we've been trying to rebalance the business and frankly, some of the margins in the other regions have come up over the years, quite nicely. We're just not seeing that same type of impact on the first quarter.

Sure, yes. So for starters we always estimate the leverage impact on both the gross margin, the fixed costs included in the cost of sales and the impact on gross margin as well as our SG&A percentage. we always basically calculate those at the midpoint of the ranges. So as we have been on the top line, you should be incrementally better on those two metrics, which is the case.

As far as the uptick like as I mentioned in prepared remarks, we're in a different situation this year in January than we were last year. We had a -- we're really facing stiff headwinds of these mortgage rate increases. Not quite sure how the year was going to sort out. We did way better than we thought we were going to during the let's say February-March of last year and where the year ended up and we had a little different approach on expenses, you always get a little more tighter on expenses, you're a little slower in replacing openings, sometimes you freeze headcount regardless of what's happening with the underlying positions and this year we're in more of a growth-minded mindset.

We anticipate growth in community count, we want to go to business and continue to take share. We're really happy with what we've seen on cycle times, and our ability to take customers from order to close in a much shorter period of time. So we're just in a more optimistic environment internally as we look at the market and we look at the company. And then also, I mean, if you want to grow the business, you have to invest in the business, so we are putting a few more dollars into various areas in order to support that growth. So that's, I'd say at a high level, those are the drivers. When you really look at it. I mean, a lot of this year almost rounding, it's 40 basis points. $6 million or something midpoint, so it's not a, not a huge, huge issue.

Like I said, on a growth mindset, the community count going up or going to spend some money on, particularly, advertising and marketing supporting those new openings in our openings are up significantly as we plan on today. we were up about 50% over the prior year. So we have a lot of work to do and we want to support it with the right level of expense.

Yes, we like I said, we forecasted based on current cost current conditions, and the current market, even though it's an improved market, we didn't look forward and say let's assume a large increase, a significant increase in margins in the third quarter and fourth quarter reflecting, for example, a reduction in concessions and customer incentives. We didn't want to take that type of an outlook into the forecast based on a relatively short period of time improvement, we do expect that improvement to happen. We do anticipate that we'll see that improving market condition, but at this point in time, we just wanted to be a little bit cautious. We've taken that in the future guidance numbers and leave it up to you guys. I mean, if you have a more bullish outlook on the space and you're ready to make that stand right now then you can adjust as you think appropriate. But right now we're forecasting based on what we're seeing in the backlog, what we're seeing in the current sales rates, the type of incentives that we need today to book our sales, and our visibility is only about 40% of the year right now to what is the backlog. So the spring selling season. It's also what I mean I think next quarter's call we'll be able to dial in on a lot of these metrics more precisely and hopefully, give you a little bit more detail on what's going on in the markets and what we talked a lot about the improvements that we're seeing continue as we get through the first quarter and the spring selling season.

Rob?

Susan, I'm not sure. I heard the earlier question, I heard you say design centers. I didn't hear the rest of it.

Yes.

Now they are very similar to what we saw last year. And frankly, the last several years of spending in the studio has been very consistent. It's moved to more what I'll call value items, more permanent things that's not necessarily finished, but room layouts and optional islands and things like that, less jacuzzis, and sort of those stuff, but the spend has been very consistent.

Well, as you can tell from our balance sheet, Susan, we are in a very strong position right now. And first and foremost, we're always going to be growing the company and that's where our first dollars would go, but what we saw as 2023 evolved there was a lot of idle cash, I'll call it a nice problem to have, with the cash that was needed to fuel our growth and position us and we were opportunistic and bought back a lot of, lot of our stock and we then somewhat programmatic about it for a few years now. We intend to continue to be active and the level will be determined based on all the factors Jeff rattled off in the prepared comments and how are we doing on land spend and how is our liquidity position, how do we look what's the stock price and that will influence our behavior, but we do intend to stay in the market and continue to buy stock.

Well, Alex, we always felt heavily to build-to-order, and it was certainly the case in our deliveries in the fourth quarter as well. It's kind of interesting to me the debate rages on build-to-order versus spec. If you look at our delivery cadence and our revenue. One of the values of build-to-order with a backlog is consistency in your results. And if you look back over the last two years to three years, our deliveries quarter-after-quarter-after-quarter are in a very narrow range we've been 2,800 to 3,400. No, broader than that from Q1 to Q4 from 2021 to Q1 2023, so it speaks to the consistency that we've been able to produce. Irrespective of what people say about once a better selling approach and we still maintain that we get better margins, we have predictability, we can align our land development with our pace of sales and starts. And it's just a far better rhythm and a better way to run the business. My expectation as you look forward in 2024, we have some inventory to sell and we always will but we will tell heavily 70% built to order.

Rob, you want to talk to the development costs. And then Jeff will talk about tax.

Rob, you want to take.

Yes, let me take that, Jeff.