Jeff Edwards
Installed Building Products, Inc. (IBP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning. Thanks, Sue.

Well, it'll loosen up as a relative. As you know it's we're still not without even as recently as the third and fourth quarter last year, at times having to you know kind of go fend for ourselves based on how tight the market is. So it's healthy in that regard.

This is Jeff. We made I mean just to be clear, we made a change in the leadership of that business line, not last year but the prior year. But these are long duration contracts and a lot of cases, at some of which we were suffering through kind of the hyperinflation in bid wouldn't that wouldn't allow us to improve kind of our pricing in that regard but it's also just a change in the mentality to Michael's point in terms of driving for profitability as opposed to sales, that the fact, that it's been fixed doesn't mean we'll crawl back in our show as a matter of fact go. And I think we could go back to growing the business.

I would say that all I'll just add to that. I mean, it takes a year a very low static market for there not always to be some degree of kind of price taking going on it. Just does based on like the contract based on number of customers based on type of product we're doing and everything else that is yielding the further we get away from it increase and in a healthy environment like this you know to because of the better the better conditions are for it to be kind of real normalized for us.

Sure.

Good morning, Ken.

In the business and elsewhere, so that's not the discount from the geopolitical things that are going on now or in two wars. And we've got a messy political situation and an election coming up, right? But business-wise things feel as good as they have in once.

Well, in part you mentioned it earlier. It's partly we take share, which is accurate in some ways. It's almost like if you refine the way we're saying that to say what we're really doing is we're entering either product lines or entering markets that were not. I mean this isn't us taking share necessarily in a market where it is just us beginning to offer the kind of CQ services and a lot of the other things we install and markets and on jobs we previously didn't do so, right?

It's not we're in there with sharp elbows all the time. It does come into them with what we believe is one of our original premises. And that is that we think that general contractors and builders would rather deal with fewer subs to get these greater number of nuisance products. And that's true for multifamily, general contractors, general/developer just like it has been, we believe ranked true with all of our builders over the years.

This is Jeff. So, I will say as always that the pipeline is robust. I would say that, whereas, we would have had more or less of internal at least likely either suspicion or prohibition on commercial acquisition. I think our attitude as we fixed what we've fixed over the last couple of years. I think we would alter our stance at this point and say that they know the market for commercial acquisition to us is now at this point kind of opened up.

So I would say that that's really an additive components will continue for the most part let's say to play within the spaces that we have historically as you know we made the distribution acquisition a number of years ago. That's performed very well. So that's not the space again that we're by any means afraid of, and could continue to potentially look in that direction.

Not long ago too, we acquired a business that as at least a component of their business was more on the industrial side of kind of the insulation install side of things.

So as long as it kind of involves material purchase and a labor component that typically it's a product that we could install typically by direct that continues to be on kind of the watch list as.

I mean, it's tight. This is Jeff. It's tight. It's not the way that was the last you know and then there was of those and it got a little better last year even two. But I think as we get through let's just put it that way, right?

And we're not as you know Keith we're only maybe four months away or so from a little bit of supply getting added. There's always stuff that can happen. I mean, there was a brief issue with the plant here recently. I think they're backup and running and so tight.

I mean, it's kind of in some ways healthy type. But so and really a lot of times it's a SKU that's not available that throws off like that would cause us to buy out a lot of distribution let's say, it would be below five times. It might be the way in which order got composed and we're missing one skew and we were that tied in or you know or afraid we got a freight issue or something else. But I think that we should be in a pretty good shape. And I think both in industry and ourselves.

Mineral, as an example it's six months I know but you got to plan that way.

Okay. Thanks.

I mean, it's having an impact, but I would say not a major impact. It's still slow. I mean, getting the construction industry to change practices is not a quick thing. It takes a lot of time and a lot of effort. But I mean, we believe ultimately particularly as we look at the opportunity for insulation and energy efficiency benefits associated with insulation that long term the trend there is extremely constructive on for us and you know are the industry.

I'm waiting.

Sure. But maybe it makes sense. But we see it more growing with our existing customers, their volume as opposed to chasing new customers that don't fully value our services.

It typically does for sure.

Well, theoretically, yes. I think one of the advantages that the production or the production builders, big builders have a lot of advantages, but one of their I think key advantages going into '24 is their land position I think you saw what happened in '23 is a lot of the regional local guys used up a lot of their land position and now are in a spot where they maybe don't have the even though the demand might be there, they might not have the land to build.

Now, a need to clarify something I don't want to be super negative on the regional and local guys, because we they are the largest part of our business. There is still very constructive and positive and we're very pleasantly surprised that there is constructive and positive as they are just given the environment. But if the Fed as I think most people are expecting does decide to lower rates in the back half of the year. I do think it continues to be good for housing. I don't think they're going to have lower rates enough that it really unlocks the 3% mortgages that so many people with existing homes have that is going to present a competitive alternatives if you will to new home construction. And quite frankly, even if it does, the demand for housing is solid. And I think there's plenty of room for both the existing home market and the new home market, given the availability or the demand for housing.

Quite frankly you know it's a healthier environment when for housing affordability when you have a more historical mix of existing homes and new homes. Right now, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, I mean the new home sales as a percentage of overall home sales is at a very high level, because of the things that we all know about on this call.

Thank you.

Thank you for your questions and I look forward to our next quarterly call. Thanks.
