Jeff Edwards
Cooper-Standard Holdings Inc. (CPS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Kirk.

Hi Kurt. It's Jeff. I think it's predicted to be more normal. So I guess that's a slow start in the first quarter and coming on as you go through the year is kind of how I would describe it. Clearly our light vehicle production units and the guidance that we've used for 2024, you can see there are continue to be a bit conservative I guess is how I would describe it. But the good news is we have truly reduced our overall cost base especially our fixed cost and we are prepared to make significant margin improvements even on those lower volume. So based on my prepared remarks you can tell I'm sure that the industry is we believe there's significant pent up demand. We believe that many of the other metrics are regarding our consumers and their appetite and interest in buying vehicles going forward continues to be to be positive. So at some point we expect the volumes to begin to reflect that. But in the meantime we've chosen to be a bit conservative there ourselves.

Yes just to clarify Kurt the 176 is simply innovation, new innovation sales. We tried to capture that to make the point that sometimes when people talk about innovation it's going to be the future. And our point is that we have been capturing significant new business on innovation sales. We highlighted several of those innovations this year or today that will impact this year's net new business as well as next year's just to make the point that we have the ability to differentiate ourselves in the market. So as new programs come out for bid as replacement programs come out for bid we don't believe we’re a me-too supplier. We are offering significant ways for our customers to improve the overall efficiency of their assembly to reduce overall costs and to improve the performance. And we don't have to think that we know that because we're booking business today with that calling card.

So we're really proud of that I think as we go forward our content per vehicle on these future launches will definitely reflect this increased content. So I don't know if that answers your question but that's kind of the point we were making today.
We do.

Sure, Kirk. This is Jeff again. I think that the best news is that for the first time in our in our company's history, I think certainly I can speak for the last 12 years or so. This is the first time that every one of our regions has made a positive EBITDA and cash flow contribution to the company. So I think that shows that the focus we've had on either exiting because we have or fixing because we certainly have and kept them that that works.

And, there's a lot of complexity that goes into that. I mean certainly customers have a vote one way or the other. We certainly have a vote one way or the other, and I think we'll just continue to march our way through country by country, product by product, continue to look at the business in several different dimensions to ensure that we're operating at the at the lowest cost possible for us at the same time reflecting the desire of our customers to pay us a fair price for what we're providing. And that's kind of the approach we've taken, we're very grateful that our customers continue to support us and trust us and in our execution is what determines that, right?

I mean that I'm sure they like us, but the real fact is we execute and that's why we're winning business and so I think that'll continue and I don't have a list to answer your question of businesses that we will that we plan on exiting. We clearly continue to look at the evolving markets. We're looking at the customer makeup of the company going forward and where that growth is going to come from and will make appropriate decisions regarding our footprint based on where those growth opportunities are. And make sure that we continue to drive return on invested capital higher and in all of the plans that we have in place today we'll do that.

You bet. Thanks for the question.

Good morning, Mike. Thanks for the question. This is Jeff. Simplest way for me to describe this deal is NIKE ask us to put together a deal that would allow them to go faster in developing products across their portfolio and they felt like they were in a better position to do that faster with the proposed deal that we've agreed to. So we expect them to do that. We expect that there will be significant growth opportunities for us within the Fortrex portfolio and when that happens we get paid more money.

And it's really that simple there. They're committed to the product. They have launched the product they plan on taking it across other lines and in this agreement allows them to go faster and hopefully allows them to grow it faster than what we were doing before.

I'm sorry Mike you broke up there.

That’s correct.

We have a royalty stream set up based on their volume. So as their volume goes up over a period of time, that's how we're paid.

That's correct. Yes, we got no investment.

Yes, that's correct, Mike. It's Jeff. I think the best way for me to categorize all of that is that I think we have reached a point of normalcy related to the price negotiations with customers that have gone on for, I don't know, 50, 60 years. I don't see this year being an abnormal one like last year, the year before was. So we've reset it. You can see that in our margins. It's very clear. And it would be nice to get more volume. I'll just leave it at that.

This is Jeff. As I think we mentioned in the last call, that 3% to 3.5%, some years, if there's a lot of launches, you could get up closer to 4%. But I would say this is closer to the new normal, to answer your question.

This is Jeff. I think the supply chain issues that we were talking about the last couple of years have essentially been resolved. Does that mean in this industry that's extremely complex related to the supply chain that there aren't still some things that crop up? I suppose the answer to that is there are. But I would say they've reached a point now where we could say that we've normalized our operations, right? We don't have the type of headwinds that we're dealing with.

And for that reason, our costs have never been lower or more competitive. Our operation from an execution point of view is world-class. The price recovery negotiations that we just went through with our customers have really restored the margin foundation that the company needs in order to create and generate the type of cash going forward that's required. We have index agreements now that are in place that ensure that the inflation roller coaster that created some pretty big challenges for us is behind us. Innovation is strong. We've talked about that. We're just waiting for a volume uplift. And when that happens, the company has never been positioned better to generate the type of free cash flow that we require going forward. So probably the reason why our customers have been so supportive.

Yes, this is Jeff. I think if you project out two years with our current plans, that's kind of what we have -- what we've been saying and what we've circled certainly could be helped getting there faster if we get volume. But given the current projection from our customers as well as the people that forecast volume in the industry, it would take a couple more years of what we've seen as growth within the industry to have that line of sight. So that's the answer I'd give you, and we're hopeful that it's much faster if we get the volume that we believe is pent up and available.

As I said, I think we'll be there in two years.

No, I think it's delivered by volume a bit. It's delivered by the content per vehicle related to the innovation sales that we've been talking about. It's delivered by launching business that has better margins than the business that it would replace going forward. It's driven by being profitable in all regions in all products that we're working our way to, as we talked about at the end of this year, we're there. That's continuing to improve upon those margins customer by customer, country by country, product by product. And we have a pretty good line of sight there. And it's not cost reducing ourselves to prosperity. It's really launching a lot of the new business that will have higher content, higher margins because of innovation and other things that we've done with our fixed costs.
