Jeff Jones
H&R Block, Inc. (HRB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Kartik. Yes. I mean, when we work through our assumptions for the year, we always go through the normal, what do we think about employment, what do we think about potential changes from the IRS, what do we see in trends, by channel. And obviously, it hasn't been a normal year for a while. But as we look on the horizon and anticipate, employment has been strong, we've seen some general trends in the industry, we are not aware of any potential changes coming from the IRS. And really, those are the things that we put together about what we see the industry doing next year.

Do you want to add anything, Tony?

Thanks, Kartik.

George, great question. Thank you. This is Jeff. I'll kick us off. Yes, I think the starting point is the clarity about what happened this year. We talked on the last call about the three reasons why we lost business in Assisted this year. The low income filers, EITC in particular, being a real focus for the teams as we prepare for next year. In simple terms, we think we have to do a better job of communicating our value proposition earlier in the year when those consumers are most in the market looking for their refunds. And I feel good as we sit here in August that the teams are very clear about what has to happen.

In terms of looking to next year and our share expectations, as we said in our opening comments, we expect Assisted share to be flat, but we're always trying to grow share in Assisted. So, it doesn't change our plans, it's just tempering our expectations. And in DIY, we feel very good about the three-pronged strategy that we took this year, and we anticipate being able to continue to improve our performance and take share again in DIY next year.

Yes. Excellent again. So, I mean, first of all, we're very excited about the opportunity with Gen AI, and I want to start at there. We talked a little bit in our prepared remarks about this, but we have dedicated teams who are absolutely leaning in in building integrations. Given our partnership with Microsoft and OpenAI, those initial two use cases, one on the expense side, one on the customer experience side. Obviously, a lot more detail to share as we're ready to make those public specifically.

The technology is generally well understood, the customer adoption is not. And so, we're very excited to begin that learning journey by deploying two very specific use cases. We've identified a number of use cases. And so, based on that learning, we see real opportunity for the business in various parts. More to come in detail, but I think the punchline is we're very excited about what it could mean both in cost savings and customer experience, and teams are leaning in and moving fast to get ready for the year.

On the IRS Free File option, in simple terms, we do not see it as a material threat to the business. We know that there is a real concern about the IRS' ability to ultimately market and support a product like this, the ultimate cost to taxpayers of what that would entail, and we've seen consumers make it clearer that there really isn't a problem here. There are over 30 organizations, tax prep companies and not for profits that are already offering free tax prep. And so, we stand by those remarks and are very focused on building great experiences to continue to do what we do. And with respect to Gen AI, like I said, we're very excited about that opportunity.

Thanks, George.

Yes. Thank you. I was feeling lonely, Scott. I appreciate that. Yes, I mean, we -- specifically to California in extension seasons, I mean we know that extensions were down generally this year, and we experienced our share of that. In California, we still expect that most volume will come in closer to the deadline of October 15. We are keeping additional offices open to capture volume. But as Tony always reminds me, we're not fully open everywhere. So, we're doing what we can to balance the expense side and the revenue side, trying to capture our fair share and grow. But most importantly, I think the teams are focused on just preparing based on the learning for this year to get ready to compete for tax season '24.

Thank you.