Jeff Brown
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks so much, Ryan. Appreciate that.

Great. Ryan, I guess, I'll start on the Ally Lending decision. I think, you rewind the clock to kind of all the March banking events there, and I think what that forced everyone to do is just take a really honest and hard look at all of our businesses, our position, figure out where we had scale, where we didn't have scale. Synchrony has got a great CEO in Brian Doubles. And Brian and I kind of compared notes a couple of times over the second quarter. And we just started talking about a potential path for them to do something here.

And I think this is really a win-win for both companies. I think this is going to be a highly accretive business for Synchrony. I think Brian and Brian, his CFO, are really excited about it. They're doing the right thing with respect to a lot of the Ally teammates going along with the acquisition. And so, for them, I think it fits right into their platform. It's going to be accretive for them. And then, for us, as we mentioned, it really enables us to focus more on the scaled businesses we have at Ally, and obviously, put -- deploy capital in that regard.

And so, I think, it came to fruition towards the end of the year. Obviously, as we mentioned, we'll expect to close that transaction in the first quarter. But I think when we look at the business footprint today, we feel really comfortable where things are at. This was just a unique position and unique situation with this business fitting right in for Synchrony and for Brian. The rest of the company, we feel, is largely intact. We like everything going on in credit card today, so and in commercial finance, corporate finance. I don't want anyone to imply anything beyond that. I think this was just a unique situation. We feel really good about it.

So that's kind of the backdrop of the story there. And then, Doug, maybe you want to talk just kind of your thoughts going into this year.

Thank you, Sanjay. I appreciate that very much.

Yeah. I mean, Sanjay, I think -- I appreciate the question. And what I would say is the Board has been very hard at work. These things not always go in a perfectly straight line, but there's been an extraordinary amount of effort in interviewing. And I think what I've appreciated about our Board and I've been involved in it, is not willing to sacrifice. I mean, we want to get a great operational leader, a great cultural leader, somebody that understands the nuances of banking. And so we've been very disciplined in that regard.

I would expect, over the coming quarter, we will be in a position to announce somebody permanent. But again, it's still a very fluid process. I think very fortunate to have Doug here, ready to go, had a really strong leadership team behind Doug. Doug's got the full support of them. He's got the full support of the Board, the customer base, and he's been around the block, so our employees know him, and he's going to slide right in. So, I'm not worried at all about continuity in this interim period. But I think over the next few months, that should be your baseline expectation to when we'll have a permanent candidate. But again, no sacrifices here. We're going to make sure we get the right next leader to build on the foundation we have in place today and carry the company forward.

Thanks, Rick.

My pleasure. Thank you.

Maybe one to add on there is, though obviously new originations continue to come on higher than the overall portfolio yield, so you've got this nice natural tailwind that's going to show itself. So, you would expect the overall portfolio yield to continue increasing for the next several quarters.

