Jeffrey Benck
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (BHE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think for both of those, we kind of in the -- on chart 18, we kind of give you some first half guidance. We didn't go out to the full year just given the dynamic environment, but just looking at first half, we see both of those being down from like, looking at sequentially, where we ended the second half of last year. In medical, while supply constraints eased and allowed us to fulfill, the demand we saw, we did see forecasts come down in the fourth quarter that continued in 1Q.

We certainly believe people are paying a lot of attention to inventory. Some of it probably related to that softness. We will -- I will say there's still a lot of outsourcing activity and near-shoring continues, we're excited about a number of new wins in Mexico for us as medical OEMs look to get closer to point of consumption.

On the industrial side, again, I would say it's similar kind of broader. It depends a little bit by OEM, but certainly some broader softness that looks to persist into the first half. That's an area where we had done pretty good with wins. We had put resource on that a few years ago and we still believe we're really well-positioned there with some of the activity we're seeing in energy management and automation and test and measurement. But in the meantime, again, sort of the softness coupled with people being looking at their own inventory and the channel inventory is putting some headwinds in front of us for the industrial sector.

Yes, I think that's -- I think that's a fair assessment. It's -- as demand softens, then you say, hey, we've got inventory in the channel or -- so they're kind of interrelated, although I will say, there's just a general sense of, I'm not going to carry as much inventory now that [indiscernible] the pandemic. The lead times have come down on components, I can deliver faster. So, I'm going to look carefully at that. But, yes, that's somewhat what we're seeing in both sectors.

Yes, I mean, it's clearly -- this is, Jeff, again. It's clearly a priority for us. We've kind of demonstrated that a lot of things culminated in fourth quarter to drive a lot of free cash flow and inventory was certainly -- really a lead there, but it's something we're putting a lot of attention on, as you can imagine, and particularly in the software environment, we're really looking at that end and spending a lot of energy. We do believe, we'll continue to drive this down as we go through '24 and then certainly see a reduction even in the first quarter. So this wasn't like a one-time event. But the last few quarters we started coming down off of what was peak and I think first quarter of last year. So anyways, yes, to your point, it's important.

What I would say is, sequentially, I think, on that chart 18 we kind of said it's kind of flattish at that level we've been at which is clearly off -- up off the bottom that we saw a year ago in the first quarter. But we're just not seeing dramatic recovery in some of the segments that were legacy that we've been really strong and not -- and certainly not tools that were near end of life. So the wafer fab equipment, I think capital spending is still being managed pretty close, and we just aren't seeing that broad semi recovery.

I think we're -- we've outperformed what's helped us is we've won incremental new tools, we have a ton of NPI activity going on, where we're building new tools, and that's helping us certainly outperform. And I look to get more constructive here. I won't say that we're being conservative, because we literally have heard a lot of the major OEMs where we play and most of those, if not all of those, at some level, they've all kind of said, yes, it's kind of flatter now.

I think we have the potential, I don't know why we wouldn't continue to do better than the market. It's just that with the China restrictions, and some of the -- even some of the CHIPS Act, we're really not going to see the benefit of that till '25. There's just moving parts that has a sort of looking at it saying, what do we see in front of us for first half? And it's, it's kind of continuing at the level we've been.

I mean, we're trying to -- I guess, we've gotten some indication on medical that there may be some -- again, it's early, but say, hey, there may be return to normal pace with inventory, looking at second half, like we might see some reflection there were maybe there's like -- we saw it in semi where the first quarter was like, we're taking it down, and you have that big reaction. So maybe we start seeing that in fourth quarter with medical. Industrial, I still think it's so broad, so many different companies. It's a little harder to look at where the bottom is. And then A&D has been strong and continued strong and I guess we said that in the thing I need to ask about that. But certainly that's been a bright spot and expect that to continue. Do you want to add anything?

Yes, and one thing with medical, just maybe the example, we built defibrillators, right, and components and subsystem for defibrillator. And you think about like during the pandemic, no one is going to stadiums, airports and that's where we saw a huge surge back, right. When things opened up, you start seeing demand there and then people got on the runway and they said, wow, this is great and this is the new normal. And I just think you've seen that modulate a little bit as you kind of caught up with that and people saying, okay, still care for it, it's still important, not going to go away. But just not maybe is, as crazy upside as there had been.

Yes, we did notice that the only peer that was kind of aligned with us on including stock based comp in their non-GAAP results sort of indicated there was a shift there. So, to that end, we got to assess our current approach and we'll provide an update when we conclude that and we look to get back on that. But obviously, peer comparisons are important to us, but we've got to decide what's right for us. And we did pick up on that. So thanks for bringing that up.

I think it's some of both. I mean, I've certainly seen people are watching expense closely. And I think we've seen some rants move to the right. But I -- but really when you consider the bulk of our revenues with existing programs, and these are multiyear programs, I think we've just seen that overall demand modulate, and I don't know that we've actually measured both, I'm just giving you a little my gut feel from what we're seeing that that it's probably I would pour it probably lean more towards the base business. And then some of the new stuff coming in is some of that's in flight, but not fully ramped yet. And it's not always the best environmental launch new stuff. But I don't think that stops, I just think that we're seeing that -- that folks are being careful about their development expense. And so that has an impact sometimes on timelines.

We almost -- we are almost at 80%, not quite to what the target we had said. So we have net of tax rates been pretty, pretty, pretty good. I'm pretty happy with that. Obviously, we had a couple of wins, we referenced even one where we've done the engineering on an AGV product and now it's moving into manufacturing. So that's that we love that, the whole product realization and how do we help customers get to market faster with their OEM designs or design that we might help develop or develop the whole thing? And we've got a couple of great proof points there. So still an important metric for us and really hasn't shift materially from how we did last quarter. And I don't really see that that being a trend or anything.

Yes, it's funny, we've seen growth in Mexico, but we've also added -- we continue to add capacity and it's been investment areas. So we're not -- it's not like we're seeing the fact that we've invested as long as to sort of stay in front of that, so we're not like add capacity by any means.

Thanks, Jason.