Jerry Morgan
Texas Roadhouse, Inc. (TXRH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, I think we have always taken a conservative approach and how we look at it throughout the country and maintaining value in our menu. So when we gather with our operators and really talk over about mandated wage increases and different things that will affect their business, we still want to have a competitive mindset as we go into keeping our value built into our menu and making sure that we’re also keeping value for our consumer in place. Michael can talk to a little bit on the numbers from that.

And I’ll speak to the digital kitchen, Mr. Jerry, we’ve open – we can – all of our new stores open with the digital kitchen this year, we converted 20. We’ve really been talking strategically about how to get the whole roadhouse concept on that digital kitchen format, because of the many benefits that we see not only for the commotion in the kitchen itself, but even the ability to track our cook times and so many features that we believe will enhance our experience for our employees in the back of the house. And it’ll impact in a positive manner the cook times for our front of the house table turn.

So the digital kitchen is a huge commitment. The feedback from our operators has been incredible, and the demand and desire is there. So we just – the number is a pretty big number for us, but we’ve got a great game plan, and I think strategically, we’re going to execute at a high level to do that. All of Jaggers and Bubba’s already on the digital kitchen format.

Thank you so much.

Yes. I think just like, to your point, it’s not showing up glaringly for us either. I think our value has always been built into the menu, and the consumer feels very good about our offerings. And from that standpoint, whether it be our steak or our chicken or all of our offerings are country dinners. So we feel very good about where we’re placed, but we don’t see anything to indicate that there’s a lot of movement within that menu pricing.

Thank you.

Thank you so much.

Well, David, thanks for – I think that – it’s Jerry. I – the benefit for us is really about the efficiency of the overall kitchen. And the way that the digital kitchen organizes through the screens versus through the tickets creates a lot less chaos, I guess, you could say. There’s no doubt we can track our cook times. There’s some real positives from that side of it, as we’ve already seen. And again, we’re only 40 or 50 in, but we are very committed. Every indicator that we have. And Michael will talk to your Wall Street nerd thing, but I will just talk to you as a kitchen guy.

What I see in those kitchens is communication, a consistency. It just organize it, so people don’t stress out when you got a whole bunch of tickets in front of you and all of that. And we can clearly monitor how long our cook times are. So that will be a big win for us going forward. And then I think Michael has a couple of comments.

Well, I think we’re going to try to get through this year and see how these 200 go, and then obviously, the intention is to get the whole concept done. I think it might take a little longer than that, but we want to do it strategically and we want to execute at a high level for our partners. So we’ll be as fast as we possibly can, because we’re committed to it and believe in it. But I don’t want to put a date on it yet.

Thank you.

Yes, I’ll start off. I just really believe that it’s our ability to execute full dining rooms and continue to keep the level of service through our to-go experience. So I think as our operators have gotten used to that volume at the high level that we are at, it has allowed us to continue to take more orders and be more available to our guests.

Hey, Andy. How are you doing, bud? Listen, the first quarter, obviously, we just had Valentine’s Day yesterday, which gives us a great indication that we’re off and running strong and solid. So that’s hard to – all the other things that you asked about, I do know we have some promotional stuff going on at Jaggers. But I think right now, without the weather, the momentum is very solid into the first quarter.

Thank you.

Yes. Chris, thanks for the – I think the bump outs, and we’re doing cooler expansions, which really – that’s part of what the costs are, is giving these folks that are really serving a lot of guests is really more storage in the back to be able to get more food in their building. The upside to even at our elevated average unit volume at over 7.5 million, we’ve got a large group of restaurants that are doing significantly more than that.

And so, as I’ve said in the past, they’re the ones leading the way that show us that even our average unit volumes can increase year-after-year if we continue to execute and do the things that our operators need to be able to get more people through their building. And there’s definitely a demand there. We just got to continue to execute more people, more product and we’ll be just fine.

Thank you.

Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. I feel really good about Bubba’s. We’ve put a lot of investment in the last couple of years, not only on the people – getting the right people, the leaders, the support all the way around it. We’ve done some – what I think are really solid structural parts of the building to keep the cost down, and we see our sales growing. So all of the indicators are that people are loving the food with the burgers and the pizzas and the energy that we have with our rock ‘n’ roll.

But I think the biggest thing is about having leadership, having consistency and ability to execute, and people identifying who Bubba’s 33 is. So all indicators are very positive and we’re very happy with the continued progress that Bubba’s is making.

Well, thank you. It’s important for us to keep a cadence of how many openings that we can do a year and be balanced in our approach, and we have to do it right. We have to get every store opened with incredible energy. It takes a lot of folks inside, so we like our number of what we’re doing for Roadhouse and the other two brands. So you’ll probably see us stay very close to that. If we get an opportunity to increase a couple here and there, we might take that opportunity. But I don’t think we’re going to change our overall strategic goal or game plan on growth.

Yes. Thank you. We feel really good. We put a lot of work into it in the last couple of years, and we look at it three levels, our managing partners, our managers and our Roadies. And all three of those indicators are that turnover is coming down, which also means that we’re getting more reps and running these shifts at a higher volume, so all of those indicators are pretty solid. There are folks, applicant flow has been pretty solid for us. So from that standpoint, the work and the effort that we put in has really benefited. And I think we’re creating an environment where our employees want to work and be a part of something that’s really special. So I believe it’s a very positive environment out there and we are benefit. The longer our folks can stay around and we keep Roadi nation happy, they’re going to keep taking care of us.

Yes.

Yes, thank you. We believe that’s a great target for us. We adjusted that, I believe, just a little over a year ago after a lot of research and just thinking about our business going forward. So there’s no adjustment to that number. Now, we’re still focused on being responsible to all of our partners out there, but we believe we can get to that number.

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks, Jon. I think it really is open to a 5:30 or 6:00. So if they open at 2:30, 2:45, but most of the stores are opening at 3:00 so as soon as they open, that early dine kicks in. I think that’s where we’ll stay for now. I don’t see us getting any earlier than that, but might be a few out there.

Thank you.

Jake, I don’t think there’s any change at this time. We’re definitely after the massive amount of openings we had in the last four months of 2024. We are trying to strategically spread that out a little bit. But as of right now, we are focused on that number between the three.

Yes, thanks, Chris. Just a matter of a lot of work been put into this timeline and building in the – that what the times that it takes to get all of these set up and then we can make the decision. So I think there’s been a lot of work and effort. It’s looking really good right now for 2024 and 2025, and we really want to keep that cadence going forward. It takes a lot of pressure off of our crew to get the most of the openings in the first three quarters versus jamming everything into the fourth quarter. So we’ve been working really hard on that and we’re going to try to keep that cadence going forward.

Thank you and all for being on our call tonight. And to Roadie Nation, YeeHaw [ph] to an incredible year. Thank you each and every one of you. Let’s go.
