Jerry Gahlhoff
Rollins, Inc. (ROL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

And I would add, Ken, as I think about residential pest control, your -- every other month in your quarterly service frequency offerings of your recurring base, that's your bread and butter. That is the healthiest indicator of what's going on in our business as we are growing our business, increasing our volumes and are we ending the year from a positive standpoint and customer -- in net customers -- net new customers to start the year, we certainly did that. And that quarterly and EOM pest control is your bread and butter and the onetime is that gravy on top. And sometimes you don't always get that gravy and that's what's really caused the slowdown in addition to the divestiture of the lawn care, that was about another $1 million on the residential side that also impacted that number in the quarter as well, Tim.

Yes. Absolutely. Our recurring quarterly every other month service definitely outpaced our organic overall number.

Yes. So as we look at the digital queries we saw in the fourth quarter, the digital queries, we saw modest increases in the quarter versus the prior year. But we did -- so it did result in some healthy increases in lead starts and sales both from a digital as well as just overall in our business. We did see a lift there. It was certainly better than flat. It wasn't stellar performance, but it was an improvement year-over-year. So we believe we continue to benefit from a diversified approach that we're not overly reliant on all the digital space. And that's a key part of the formula in our organic growth.

It's a good idea. You should probably get on it yourself, too.

Thank you.

I mean we continue to have a highly fragmented market in this industry. It remains very competitive. I wouldn't necessarily characterize any significant shifts or changes in that competitiveness, it's always been that way. And while there are some ebbs and flows in here and there, we just keep doing what we do, focusing on our business and trying to win at what we do so.

George, I'll add. This is Jerry. When we think about one of the ways I just love our business model is the diversity that we get from our brand strategy. Each of our brands has various different ways to acquire customers, whether it be, say, Northwest and Home team that rely heavily on the homebuilding market or Fox doing door-to-door. And now, for example, we have Home team doing door-to-door and expanding that offering in their business by things they learn from the Fox team. These are all things that we can deploy across and due to the diversity of our brands and what each one brings to the table that we think continues to help us with this solid growth profile for the future.

Thank you, George.

Ashish, I'll -- this is Jerry. I'll kind of try to take the first part of that statement. I asked our marketing team what was going on in the fourth quarter from a digital spend standpoint. It was a time when we'd like to invest a little earlier in the year in some of the marketing. And it did appear anecdotally that there was a pretty significant uptick in competitive spend in the fourth quarter at a time when we were backing, winding down some of our marketing spend that there was some pretty significant investment in the market there in the fourth quarter. So we certainly saw the competitive environment pick up in that regard where there was more spend into there. Now how that equated to sales and starts to new customers or onetime work on the residential side, we don't really know. But -- so that's on your first question, that's...

Yes. Well, cicadas typically are not a household pest control problem. They are a nuisance because when they come out and the volumes as they did a couple of years ago, they wreak havoc from a noise standpoint, I know -- I have a house in the mountains that you couldn't sleep at night, and it was very annoying. But they tend to just go away over time, but it probably will create some awareness about pests in general and things that bother humans, but it's not as though our pest control companies are going to be out there attempting to eradicate cicadas. So that's seemingly an impossible feat. We're really just out there waiting for them to die off and go away and start the whole process over again. So it will probably create some buzz in the marketplace, and that's always good for business.

Yes. Really, what we saw was a slowdown in some of the residential bed bug, onetime work and also on the wildlife side, which often involves some rat type of -- rat and rodent type of work, a slowdown there. Those are the main drivers of that, whether that's seasonal, whether it's something that's changed in the weather or change in demand. We're not completely certain of any of that. But bed bugs, for example, being down has always been something that has fluctuated from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year on some of the ups and downs. And it was just more significantly down for us in recent months.

Thank you.

Yes. So the labor side of it is we have been very good at hiring onboard and training our sales teams, especially on the -- well, really on the Commercial and Residential side, we're talking specifically a little bit more about the Commercial side. But one of the things that you learn with on the Commercial side, where you typically have a longer sales cycle, it takes longer from the time so you have a lead or create a creative lead to get a deal closed, you really have to get those salespeople productive in selling and finding success early on. And that's what helps you with keeping people in the long term. The more they're successful, the more they're winning. The longer they stay and the more money they earn, they go to our presidents club events, those types of things.

And I'm really proud of our -- of the sales team that we've built both on the Commercial and Residential side. It's a team of very high-performing people that we've enabled that through how we hire, how we train, how we invest in them, how we give them those tools to be successful. And that's ultimately what drives retention. That's what makes them want to stay. So we have a lot of momentum in that space that I just feel really good about as we head into 2024.

I would say we are pretty happy. We have very broad geographic coverage under the Orkin brand in North America. And when you look in the U.S., mainly the area that we don't have the second bite of the apple brand strategy is fully built is really probably in the Midwest where we have some opportunity where we would like to continue to add and invest in M&A. And then when you think about international, we're very happy with our Australian operations growing and healthy, and we're going to continue to build out Australia, the United Kingdom and Singapore where we currently operate, but we really haven't put a lot of upper energy behind expanding outside of those areas. We like where we are, and we're going to continue to build and focus on those countries where we've expanded internationally.

Thank you.

And Stephanie, I would add, we do have some concerns about truck prices rising. Some of these fleet vehicles or costs are going up. As Ken mentioned, there's always the wild card as fuel prices and fluctuations we have there. On the M&S side, we just completed an RFP on our insecticides and termiticides, trying to ensure our pricing is in line on that and trying to generate some savings or at least offset the -- as much as we can, some of the price increases that are being passed along to us from some of our suppliers. So those are all things that are top of mind for us that we'll keep focused on through the year.

That's -- yes, that's what I'm hitting at. There's still -- there's some unknowns, there may be still some costs that we don't know. And you look at the inflation data that demonstrate that it's not necessarily slowing as fast as we all would probably like it to. So we're still -- we're cautiously optimistic there.

I don't think there's any significant change. There's still good deal flow out there. We -- there's good businesses that are out there for sale. And while -- from a quarter-to-quarter basis, there's some ebbs and flows to that kind of volume that we get to see or look at. But there's still plenty of good business out there that are potentially worth acquiring. So we've gotten off to a good start already in January. We feel good about our pipeline. We're actually a little ahead of where we were last year in that regard. But last year, keep in mind, in January, February, we announced the Fox deal in April, we were heads down working on the Fox deal. So we put a lot of stuff aside to focus on that. So now we're back to kind of business as usual and looking at normal deal flow.

Thanks, John.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We appreciate your interest in our company, and we look forward to speaking with you on our first quarter earnings call in a few months. Thank you.
