Jesse Gary
Century Aluminum Company (CENX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Lucas. First of all, I'd just like to say, we're very thankful for the program and the proposed regulations clearly have a material benefit for Century and also for U.S. aluminum production. To your point on process, we are working with Treasury on the proposed regulations, which, as I mentioned in my comments, included several questions for industry and other participants about which costs should be included as eligible.

There's obviously been a lot of support coming in from industry and also from some of the drafters of the bill, which is obviously important to the ultimate intent of the law. So we do think there's good potential for more benefit to come, but it will obviously depend on the process.

So these regulations, as we call them, are proposed regulations. And the process will be there's a comment period, which a number of comments have already been submitted. And there also will be a hearing. And then after that, Treasury and the IRS will take that feedback back and will ultimately issue either another set of proposed regulation or a set of final regulations. There is no prescribed time line there. So we'll just have to wait and see when we see the next set of proposed or final regulations.

Yes. The initial comment period is already closed, Lucas, and the hearing is, in fact, tomorrow.

Sure, Lucas. Good question. Yes. So we were very sad to see the announcement of the New Madrid smelter in New Madrid, Missouri closed earlier this year. But obviously, each and every smelter in the U.S. has its own mix of costs and circumstances. And it's difficult to really make broad generalizations or comparisons across them.

And with respect to Hawesville specifically, we have obviously seen power prices in the Midwest return towards attractive levels, mainly driven by the low price of natural gas, but also as additional renewable energy is built in the grid, it's actually quite rewarding to see just how green the overall Midwest power environment has become.

So with respect to Hawesville specifically, I think as we said before, it will be a holistic decision based on many factors. Obviously, the power price situation is helpful. And when we have final guidance on the IRA credits, that will also be very helpful towards making that decision.

But we'll evaluate all factors at the time, including our corporate allocation of capital, power supply, LME outlook and restart costs. Of course, our first priority, as we said before, will be restarting at Mt. Holly. And as I mentioned, we continue to work on that and make some progress.

Yes. So obviously, as we continue to work on Jamalco and bringing it back to its full potential, which, as I said before, we're quite confident over time, we will return the asset to producing in the second quartile of the global cost curve. But we did have a few headwinds in Q4 and into Q1 when there were some delays in the restoration of some of the high efficiency boilers.

And we continue to have a little instability coming out of the energy-related disruptions we had towards the end of Q3. So we now expect some of those production and cost efficiencies that we've previously talked about to be achieved in Q2 rather than Q1. But we do expect Jamalco to be roughly breakeven on an EBITDA basis in Q1. Obviously, there's some of the quarter to go still. And then as we see the production efficiency improvements take hold, we think that that EBITDA generation will improve in Q2 and beyond.

Sorry. And then to your CapEx question, Lucas. Yes, $10 million to $15 reflects some of those restoration projects that we have in place and the powerhouse that we've talked about before. So there's a little bit of mix of investment and sustaining CapEx in there, Lucas. So we'll just have to watch that, and we'll continue to guide you as we go forward on that CapEx breakdown in future periods.

Thanks, John. It's a good question. Unfortunately, natural gas isn't quite free yet. Though, I agree that would be a good environment. There's a few things going on in your question. So on Midwest and U.S. power prices generally, bringing aside the cold snap we had in January, they have been very constructive in both back half of last year and now certainly in the first quarter of this year, putting aside that brief week of very cold weather.

So you've got the range right. You've seen them trading with low gas prices in the high-20s and low-30s over the balance of 2024. And you have seen the near part of the curve come in and reduce back towards sort of pre-pandemic levels in the Midwest.

On the renewable side, however, you continue to see renewable supply chains be very stretched and renewable prices remain well above pre-pandemic pricing levels for renewables. So it's pretty dynamic out there. There's a lot of things going on. It's kind of hard to make broad generalizations of the overall energy environment. But certainly, it is a bit more constructive for Sebree as we continue to operate there.

Yes. When you look at -- and you can sort of take a broader look and look at imports level, we saw about 1 million -- 1.3 million tons of aluminum going into China. So the window was certainly open for most of the year. And largely, that was based on very strong demand for EVs and renewable energy applications within China. So then your corresponding question on exports is a bit more complex because you did see a lot of that demand to go into not semis exports, which are easier to track, but more complete downstream demand applications, and it's a bit harder to say exactly.

But what we can see is that the drivers are those long-term demand drivers for aluminum we've long talked about, which is increasing aluminum intensity in electric vehicles and increasing aluminum intensity in renewable energy and renewable energy transmission applications.

Okay. Thanks, everyone, for joining, and we look forward to talking to you after Q1. Thanks a lot.