Jesse Arenivas
EnLink Midstream, LLC (ENLC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I appreciate the question. First, let me start by saying we're extremely excited about the opportunity in the expanded market. We're going to be looking for mutually beneficial opportunities with Exxon for -- to gain a larger share of that addressable market, expanding outside of the Mississippi River corridor. What that entails is we've identified -- as we've said in the past, right, we believe that the Denbury acquisition leads to more opportunities for EnLink, and this is an example of an optimization of our existing agreement to find the most cost efficient, most timely solution for those initial volumes. With respect to timing, we both have obligations under the existing agreement. So we both have -- are highly incented to get this work through very quickly. So from a timing perspective, we hope to update you on the path forward very soon. With respect to the capital spend, most of that those dollars were spent on permitting right of way acquisition. We have taken a step back as we reassess and so we will not be incurring future spending until we identify the most optimized solution.

Yes. I think from a return multiple perspective, I think we you would expect those to compete with our traditional midstream business. So those multiples will have to be competitive. I think where we have a competitive advantage again is our decades long experience both in Louisiana and as we expand into Texas, Gulf Coast area is our ability to execute on agreements -- on construction projects, operations of CO2 pipes. We are now in the phase of our North Texas assets. So we've got the experience there. I think the relationship with ExxonMobil, there is a mutually beneficial relationship and that we are a pipeline infrastructure company as we set out to be the transporter of choice that is materializing. And the value add there is going to be timely execution, experience, customer relationships. So I think we do have a value add, and I think it's recognized by ExxonMobil.

We continue the discussions with Shell, Oxy, the public announcements we've made those are progressing. I think these have taken a little longer than we would have anticipated. But I think that's for a couple of reasons. One is the uncertainties around the 45Q regs and then Louisiana privacy. I think a lot of those uncertainties are behind us and we're optimistic that these things will move forward in 2024. But again, those are progressing very nicely.

I think just I can't speak for Exxon, but broadly speaking, you've got two systems. The acquisition of Denbury and the green line also came with additional sequestration sites. If you look on a map EnLink our systems intersect that green line in multiple areas. So I think as I said earlier, we're looking for mutually beneficial opportunities to gain more market share, right? So that's going to be how can we do this quicker, how can we get these quicker to market, how can we get this optimized from a cost perspective, returns perspective. So it's a very collaborative effort. I think they're looking at this as a broader opportunity. Again, utilizing the Denbury assets with EnLink assets could provide unique opportunities to move forward.

Thank you, Alissa, for facilitating our call this morning, and thank everyone for being on the call today and for your support. As always, we appreciate your continued interest and investment in EnLink, and we look forward to updating you with our first quarter results in May. In the meantime, we wish you well. Stay healthy and have a great day.



