Jim Gattoni 
LSTR CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

You know, if you were pre-pandemic, I wouldn't call it structurally weaker. It is weaker, but not to the degree it sounds because we're coming off a tremendous two years of substitute line hall, where those, you know, those parcel carriers really needed us to jump in. There was so much stuff coming through the network. So for us, I don't necessarily think it's structural. I think it's just a downturn at peak season. And I think I would anticipate that you're going to see a little bit of improvement going into the forward quarter next year, because it's -- I've been here for quite a long time. It is about the most abnormal peak season I've ever seen with the softness. So I don't believe it's structural.

You know, if you were pre-pandemic, I wouldn't call it structurally weaker. It is weaker, but not to the degree it sounds because we're coming off a tremendous two years of substitute line hall, where those, you know, those parcel carriers really needed us to jump in. There was so much stuff coming through the network. So for us, I don't necessarily think it's structural. I think it's just a downturn at peak season. And I think I would anticipate that you're going to see a little bit of improvement going into the forward quarter next year, because it's -- I've been here for quite a long time. It is about the most abnormal peak season I've ever seen with the softness. So I don't believe it's structural.

I think one of the things you got to look at too is the type of freight we haul. We are heavy spot business and if you heard, I talked about that 3PL, non-trucks up being on 42%. So you got to look at kind of what they're hauling in our network too. And some of that, when you look at that overflow type business that irregular out non-routine, non-repetitive type freight, that market clearly is a little bit softer than you do on the contract world. So the contract trucks stay around a little bit longer than these guys because we're dealing with a drop off in that type of freight. I think that has a little bit to do with it.

I'd like to believe it's the beginning of that six to eight cycle turn, right? One thing I would point out is, and this isn't quite a green shoot, but we'll give you a little bit of -- we had record truck brokerage spreads at the beginning of last year, right? So that meant that the capacity and that was very, very loose. Starting after the second quarter, coming into third and fourth quarter, we saw that compress a little bit, we're still seeing. So I think that would tell you that there's a little bit of pressure coming in from the trucks to us to pay them a little bit more. So in that environment, that it kind of holds to say, if they're pushing us more on rate from the truck side that spot rates, it's not a weather thing. It's the beginning of maybe flattening or maybe, what we're saying is normal seasonal upticks coming up in the end of second -- mid-2024. So I look at that, the spreads on the third party truck pay.

Thank you.

Yes, to get it under control, we have to stop plaintiff's lawyers from coming up with reasons to take money from us.

We accept liability in the event it's our accident. Sometimes you end up tangled up in something that's not your fault, but we feel we're very fair in settling our accident claims. But we've been dealing with this 2019, May 1, as I said, May 1, 2019. And those premiums are actually after the 2019 renewal, I think the premiums went up almost 200%. We still see a little bit of creep in it. But I'm not sure I understand why there's various carriers out there that are just talking about it today and why they're getting hit with these big claims. The Landstar has been dealing with this nuclear verdicts for five or seven years. We dealt with the premium increase in 2019.

So it's kind of built into the model now. Clearly we could have a nuclear verdict hit us that would create more volatility in the line. But the instability of that line that we've experienced over the last five years is, you know, I don't want to say it's going to stabilize. It's still difficult getting insurance companies to carry trucking companies starting -- we got a renewal coming up May 1. But from an inflate [ph] -- I think we dealt with the majority of the inflationary pressure on the insurance line. Are we going to still have some? But I think most of it's behind us. Might it still be 5% to 10% a year? Yeah, it could be. But the big hit was 1920 and 1921 is really where we saw it.

You know, what we do here is, if we have an accident in a quarter, we put that accident up and we try and get it, you know, from an accounting standpoint, we try and get the quarters to the number that we think it should be. And clearly we have unfavorable development in some cases and that carries over and you can see that in our financials. But I would say that we still struggle with getting renewals, but the pricing seems okay and there's still some participating carriers out there. And we're also a very safe organization. We probably lead the industry on accidents per million miles where we sit at like 2.1 where the average is like four. So we do get some favorable treatment when it relates to that. But I would say based on the long answer was, I think we'll see more stability and that going forward and looking backwards.

Why the industry change significantly when I step away? I'm just saying the whole industry, the entire industry is going to change when I step away. No, I think insurance was one. That was a big change we saw coming along. I think one of the most interesting things was the digital players who were bragging about ubering the -- I'm going to uber the agent base away. I'm going to get rid of all the broker carriers. We were prepared if that actually happened. We never said it was not a viable business. I still believe that there is some kind of play for technology only in the industry if you're hauling marbles. But when you're putting expensive freight on a truck, you want someone watching it, right? So we've said that all along.

The other thing we always talked about too is we have the technology everybody was selling. I mean, we have an app on the phones where the trucks can access. So that's the one thing that it came and went in during my career here, back in the early 2010, 2011, we were going to be uberized and now you've seen what's happened in that industry. So insurance was a big one, as I mentioned, but other than that, it's been a very consistent business for 28 years. And we've always focused on the core and we watched the disruptors and we react appropriately to protect our agent base and our network. But other, you know, it's been a great ride and going forward, I see this model has just continued to thrive. I mean, because I think they got it, there's a great management team here, a lot of experience, the depth here is incredible. Everybody's got a 25 year plaque on the wall. So me departing this organization doesn't change a thing, but 

Yes, unfortunately, I can't speak for the next CEO about that if, you know, we haven't changed our splits since I've been here pretty much, tweak them maybe a little bit. So I would probably defer that conversation for at least tomorrow or when, you know, you can call Frank when he's here in the office and ask his opinion, but that one's a tough. Going back to the 2020 move that we made, it was the suddenness of the drop in freight demand that actually had us react. It wasn't this gradual slowdown in the environment. It wasn't normal economics. So that's why we, and what we did back then, what I believe is we added $50 per load to the BCO plus $50 per load to the agent to compensate them in an environment that basically the door closed on the freight environment suddenly.

So we did that for three or four, maybe six months. I don't really remember. But that was a reaction to a very abnormal environment. This is kind of a trending downwards. And I think it's a great discussion that the management team's going to have with the new CEO coming in. I don't want to say he won't do it, and I'm not saying he will do it, but I think that's a conversation we had later.

One thing to touch on too, is if you looked at the fourth quarter buybacks, we bought 239,000 shares back, we probably would have been in more, except for the confidential, the insider information about me departing, it was coming almost finalized, so we had to kind of get out of the market.

Yes, Ben, I've watched the same net revocation data that you do, and I do think that the decline in the market for a capacity, it seems slow, but one of the things I don't think it accounts for is, I don't think it necessarily tracks carriers that have gone from 10 trucks to three trucks or two trucks. I think maybe there's a little bit more end to this than we can count in just the DOT data, but I also agree that it's hanging around longer than I think many, myself included, thought it would, just based on what we said earlier, the duration of the decline, and the severity of the decline, but I have no crystal ball to know how long it's going to last, and people will stick around. It just doesn't seem like with the cost pressures that exist that it could last another year, it doesn't seem to ring true with me, but I guess we'll see.

Yes, as you know, we don't really own any assets and we don't have any terminals. So we're kind of more of a nichy play in there where we take our truck customers and we do some LTL for them. So in a market -- the market for us is really tied to some specific customers. So we have a little bit of customer softness in our Top 10 customers, and we anticipate that's going to continue on, but being 3% of our business, and really specific to maybe 20 of our agents or 30 of our agents doing a bulk of it, it tends to just move more in line with our customer base than with kind of industry dynamics. It's almost a little like the ocean pricing. Our ocean pricing is not an indicator of what's going on in the industry. It's more special project type stuff. LTLs are little bit similar to that as we provide a little bit more special hands-on service on the LTL side for certain of our customers.

Yes, thanks, Joe. So, back to the higher highs comment. We're a great place to be for owner operators who want a lot of freedom and independence. And it's a freedom to be successful and it's a freedom to stay and it's a freedom to leave. And I think we've seen a little bit of that just with the volatility in the market. As I said earlier, I don't think there's anything systemic there, there's interest. I think BCO count will rally as the opportunities are here. I think we're the best model for that. Now, there is pressure out in California with AB5 that's kind of sitting with the judge after the trial to try to make some decisions there. There's -- with the current administration, continues to question, what's an independent contractor and what's not. And we keep an eye on all that stuff.

We think we're very well prepared in the case of AB5 in California. We were very proactive. We don't think that's going to be any sort of a negative for us. If that were to spread across the country, for some in the other states, would we have some work to do? Yes, sure. But we really lost very few BCOs as it relates to AB5 and we would hope that we would come out similarly if it were to move to some other states that are kind of on that list of where it might expand.

Well, first off, I'd like to thank everybody for having. This be my longest call in 10 years on my last day as the CEO, President and CEO of Landstar. So that's special. But before I sign off on my final Landstar earnings conference call, I want to thank all of Landstar's agents, BCOs and employees for your contributions to Landstar's 2023 performance in a very challenging freight environment. The people in Landstar's unique network of agents, capacity providers and employees are what truly sets Landstar apart in our industry and enables success we all achieve together.

It's been my privilege to have worked at Landstar for the past 28 plus years and a professional honor of a lifetime to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of Landstar over the past decade. I'm truly grateful for the opportunity to have been a part of this network of agents, capacity providers, employees, customers and shareholders, as well as the Landstar Board of Directors who I have had the pleasure of working with over the years.

I'm highly confident in the Landstar Business Model and its superior management team. And I know I leave a leadership in good hands as Frank Lonegro assumes the role of President and CEO. I now pass it to Frank for some closing comments, Frank.