Jim Kamsickas
Dana Incorporated (DAN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Noah. Good morning. This is Jim. I'll take a shot at it. The answer to the question is there is no one shoe fits all in terms of that. It is different by end market, vehicle within end market, by region, by customer across the board in -- our various customers have changed strategies, two or three different times over the course of the last three to four years, and that's going to continue to be that way. And if I just go like an example, forms, right, there may be some regions where the -- of a particular customer just wants to go with the component type of strategy with Dana.

Conversely, just take an example, perhaps we have footprint, managed footprint and capability, et cetera, in a region where maybe they don't, that it's more appropriate for us to do a full system whatever the case may be. And there's multiple -- as it relates to differentiating between the technology that we have versus other people had efforts whatever. So we will never get to this is a black and white cut and dry one shoe fits all for everybody. It's always going to be based on those type of factors.

The thing that works for us, just to remind you, though, is just that because we're able to scale across not only across the end markets, but to be able to scale across the regions to scale across multiple other factors. It puts us in a good position for whatever our customers want us to adapt to, we just find a way to adapt with them either on a component level or a full system level.

Hey, Colin, this is Jim. Good morning. What I would offer to you is maybe think about it in buckets of time. If you kind of go back, I mean, we've all seen the significant shift on, I'll call it, somewhat of a pull back and push out on electric vehicles for all the reasons we all understand at this point. But if you go back in buckets of time over the last year, two years, three years, I mean, the cadence of electrification sourcing in that window of time was really heavily influenced or pivoted towards electric vehicles.

So now from a balance sheet standpoint, I think you'll start to see maybe that kind of blend back to more of an average, more of a middle of the road average. I'm not going to predict what that's going to be exactly. But again, it's important what was sourced, what was pursued and what was sourced over the last couple of years is what's going to be reflective that we're putting into the backlog. So that's the best way I would do it. It's just buckets of time would be the most important thing to think about.

Just briefly, Tim may have some additional color on that, Jim, again. Just I tried to mention in my prepared remarks that we see agriculture down a little bit. This year, we see the other end markets, underground mining or material handling, et cetera, to be relatively neutral to prior year.

You’re welcome.

I'm not going to go into a whole bunch of detail, but if you really look back, look back to 2021 and look at the decrementals that were impacting us when we had a lot of the supply chain and customer order pattern issues. You know, those are starting, obviously started to reverse last year. We'll continue to see those benefits coming into 2024. And that's part of what's reflected in that positive conversion rate that you're seeing. I think the other thing there is, we continue to drive efficiency across the business. So whether it be plant related on conversion costs or with our fixed cost structure, and those are all being reflected primarily in that ICE traditional conversion rate.

I think the growth continues to be relatively balanced. I mean, I think that, we continue to see a lot of puts and takes even throughout the years relative to where we're seeing, growth or demand. And I think that that probably continues, but I don't think there's one segment that's over weighted.

Yeah, there's some of that. I think, when you think about some of the places where the growth is coming from, yeah, we continue to see it in, we continue to see growth in the CV market. But I think the other thing you should think about is, as I sort of rethink through that, right, I think we will see a little bit more growth in the light vehicle segment than we will in off-highway or CV this year, if you're trying to weight it. Some of that's due to some of the production lost in the LV business last year from the UAW strike.

Okay. With that, thank you very much for joining the call. As always, we appreciate the privilege of your time. Just to recap from my standpoint, from a business perspective, collectively it's been a life and death life and death collided every day as a company that's trying to survive product portfolio disruption as well as a three to four year COVID/UAW driven industrial crisis but I would offer the Dana has more than survived these two once-in-a-life-time generational challenges. In fact, I think we're used to it is the events to significantly strengthen the company. Arguably, it's terminology. I'd like to use call it the crisis is a terrible thing to waste.

By doing that, we focused on the processes. We focused on the business. We focused on the customers. And as you can see, as it relates to creating long-term shareholder value, we believe you're starting to see it come through in the numbers, and you'll continue to see it come through the numbers. So thank you very much for your continued support and interest in Dana, and we'll talk to you all soon.