Jim Grech
Peabody Energy Corporation (BTU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And Lucas, I'd like to add to that, that CapEx, the portions of it that are associated with equipment and conveyors and so on and miners has pretty much been spent -- ordered and those costs are known. A large part of what Mark is talking about is the development cost which get capitalized until we get into production. So as far as equipment and being exposed to inflationary pressures, we feel that that's pretty much behind us. and we feel pretty good about those capital numbers because, again, it's mainly associated with development going forward.

Yes. Nate, with the lock issue, the timing that we have -- that industry has from the Army Core engineers is for the locks to be back in service sometime in mid-May, that's their current estimate. And so in the interim, we've made alternate transportation routes. We've got 2 different ones. One is all barge and another one is barge and rail that we're putting in place to keep the coal moving. We don't see that impacting our first quarter volumes or our full year volumes for Shoal Creek sales volumes. We do think there may be a dip in the second quarter depending when that lot gets back in place. with the sales tons in the second quarter. But again, it won't affect the full year sales numbers for Shoal Creek.

That's very true of the hold off of the asset. And the words well reserve addition is the same type of quality. So we don't expect any degradation in the quality at all as we transfer from the old North Goonyella reserves to the Wards Well reserves, same quality.

Yes. Chris, our focus is on delivering the shareholder returns and the organic growth is always the topic of our list because it's the least risk. We have the most control over that. And that continues to be our focus internally. Now as M&A comes along, we opportunistically look at anything that comes our way. We always take a look at it, Chris. Now how active we are as a different thing. But as things come our way, we take a look at it and then make a determination if it could benefit our shareholders or not, but it's down the list. Organic opportunities are at the very top of the list.

Thank you, Chris. That's the exact same observation we have too.

Mike, the discussions we have with our customers is -- one of the things that we've noticed is now desires to have longer-term contracts put in place because of the combination of the concern about the reliability of supply and the potential for plants having longer lives than was originally thought to be the case. And I would say that the conversations we're having with our customers and what we're seeing is plants that maybe we're going to close in the next few years, looking at them going out to 29 or 30. It's not -- nobody is making commitments or predictions gone that, but it is a very good trend to see that -- see that occurring. And again, because I'm sure you know that this year is reliability, right? The reliability of the grid backed up by baseload power and the need to keep these points around to do that. So it's an encouraging start getting us through stronger through the end of this decade, and we'll see where it leads to from there.

Yes, Mike, before we answer to make sure we got the question clear. Are you talking about seaborne thermal and seaborne met and between them and --

Yes. Lucas, we'll start. We'll have Malcolm talk about the contracting of the domestic versus the export and some color on that to the extent that we can talk about that. And then we'll follow up with your question about the reserves and the outlook. So Malcolm, if you could go first.

Lucas, maybe also you're talking about Wambo would come out of that longwall move at the end of last year and have the long haul running this year, too. I'm not sure what time frame you're talking about with the tonnage profile.

Wilpinjong. Okay, I'm sorry. Go ahead.

Yes. Lucas, for 2025, our domestic book right now, if we look at the PRB and we gauge it against the midpoint of the guidance this year, we're better than 60% committed. And the other U.S. thermal same way if you look at the midpoint of guidance this year and you take that to 2025 or about 75% committed. And we have not yet issued any outlook on pricing for 2025.

Well, thank you all for joining us today. I'd especially like to thank our employees for remaining focused on safety and for continuing to execute on our various initiatives. I'd also like to thank our investors, customers and vendors for your continued support. Operator, that concludes our call.