Jim Davis
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So Patrick, you heard me discuss in our prepared remarks. We're going to continue to invest in our Alzheimer's portfolio of tests. There's still one important blood-based biomarker that we will bring up later this year. And that will complete our investments in our Alzheimer's testing from a blood-based standpoint. You heard me mention that PFAS testing. We're bringing that test up. We'll be launching that here in the first quarter. We have gotten significant consumer and physician demand to bring that test up. And then finally, we're upgrading some of our laboratory information systems in a couple of our esoteric labs. And so, the lack of this PAMA cut gives us the ability to continue to make those investments.

Okay. Let me address the progress on Haystack, Sam will take the second question. So Haystack is proceeding as we expected. There's no incremental investment versus what we thought. We said last year, $0.15 to $0.20 for the half year. And then likewise, $0.15 to $0.20 incremental this year. We are bringing the assay up in our Lewisville, Texas Cancer Center of Excellence. It's proceeding as we expected. We announced -- you heard in my prepared remarks, discussions of three clinical trials. So we are doing testing right this moment. Obviously, we're not getting paid for that testing as we continue to validate the assay. But we expect to have it launched here in the first half of the year for commercial purposes.

Yes. Pito, let me just go back to Q4 just to talk about the progress we made year-over-year. So as Sam indicated, our revenue in Q4 versus '22 was down $45 million. And if you look at the mix of that revenue, COVID was down $145 million year-over-year. And remember, we were getting paid $100, a record at that point. Our base business offset $100 million of that, which is why we were down $45 million. Despite that, bad mix and the lower revenue, we still improved our operating margin by 60 basis points. So we made significant progress in the quarter and that progress will continue as we march into 2024.

Yes. So for the fourth quarter, Jack, we saw volume growth of 5.1%. For the total year, we had volume growth of 6.5%. Now, I would tell you at the very beginning portion of this year, the first two to three weeks with the weather that we saw across the U.S., volume growth was stunted a bit. But in the last week or so, we’ve seen volume recover to the normal rates and expectations that we have for the year. So you’ve heard several of the health plans have reported higher utilization in the fourth quarter. We, ourselves, because of our own health care costs, we know there was higher utilization of our own employees. So we expect it to continue at slightly above the normal market rates, albeit the first month of the year has been tempered a little bit by weather.

Yes. So let me just recap '23 and then we'll get into '24. So in 2023, price, pure price, price per test provided us a slight lift year-over-year, okay? So our base rev per req that we've reported was up 1.2% and price was a positive contributor towards that. Now going into 2024, we expect, again, price to be flat to slightly up for the year. We concluded all of the significant health plan renegotiations in '23. Obviously, there's a new tranche that always comes about one-third -- 25% to 33% renew every year. But we feel confident that prices will remain flat to slightly up as we enter 2024.

Yes. So let me address your second question first. We have no risk with respect to the IP on the underlying technology that we're using in Haystack. We feel very confident about it. Much of that IP comes out of John Hopkins University, and we're solid there. So no risk. In terms of LDTs, I think we've said in the past about 10% of our tests are considered LDTs. We'll wait to hear from the FDA in April what the final rule is, and then we'll make decisions as an industry from there. What I would tell you is that we do a significant amount of work for the pharmaceutical industry today, and we do a significant amount of work for four international laboratories. Both of those require us to be ISO certified. And when you're doing work for the pharmaceutical industry, especially for companion diagnostics, you're essentially operating already under FDA regulation. So it's not going to be anything radical that we don't know what we need to do. Will there be further investments and steps required to get all of our laboratories that do LDTs accredited? Yes, there will be. But it’s not a heavy lift for Quest Diagnostics.

Yes. So thanks for the question. It's a great question. So first, I would say that there's just broader awareness of testing options that are now available to both consumers and to physicians. In part, this is because of new therapeutics that have been introduced has just created widespread awareness. As you know, the majority of testing today for Alzheimer's is conducted via PET-CT, which are expensive $2,500 to $4,000 exams or CSF testing, cerebral spinal fluid, which is not an expensive lab test. However, the procedure to extract CFS out of the human body is an expensive procedure. And likewise, the total cost of that is roughly $1,000.

We have brought up blood-based assays for ApoE, which is a genetic risk for Alzheimer's. We brought up a blood-based assay for what we call AB42/40, which is generally considered the earliest indicator amyloid plaque, the earliest indicator of dementia and/or Alzheimer's onset. And then we brought up one of the two protein markers that are also involved, the Tau markers. We brought up 181 and there's a second one 217 that we will be bringing up later this year. That, in essence, completes our blood-based offering. And I think there's widespread consumer interest, widespread interest amongst primary care physicians. And we've had double-digit growth all year long in both our blood-based assays and CSF testing, and we expect that double-digit growth to continue on in 2024 and beyond.

Yes. So good question. The AI tool that we referred to with respect to our Clifton lab, is really -- it was a tool that we used to analyze the workflow within several departments in the Clifton Laboratory, that actually looked at from fairly simple things like steps and movement between equipment, loading and unloading of certain racks and we reviewed it and you find some really quick easy simplification efforts to adjust equipment, move equipment to minimize the human content or labor involved in each one of these steps.

More broadly, we've deployed AI in two critical areas. One is in microbiology. Microbiology, as you know, you grow things in a dish, you look at it under a microscope. But with one of our partners, we now -- we can take digital images of what's growing in the dish and the system actually reviews those images and makes the initial call of a negative or positive. We still review the positives by high, but it's a digital image as opposed to doing it under a microscope. But it's a much quicker read because the system has generally indicated -- this system is already indicated if it is positive.

We're also in the process of deploying artificial intelligence and digitizing pathology. So as you know, pathology is generally read under a microscope. We're in the process of implementing digital systems that allow for one to read off of a monitor versus under a microscope. And once you’ve digitized that slide, you’re now able to apply algorithms to, again, at least help with what we call region of interest, pointing out to the pathologist where they should look and inevitably helping the pathologists make the proper diagnosis.

Yes. So in general, our reference testing, which is more LDT like than it is the routine testing, as you know, Eric. In general, that carries a higher test margin, higher gross margin. And in general, right, we're not drawing specimens that are derived or taken in hospitals. So there's a very little phlebotomy cost involved in reference work.

So generally, the operating margin of our hospital-based tests are going to be higher than the average of the business. So that business did grow at a faster rate than our overall book of business, both in Q4 as well as for the total year. So it was good mix.

All right. Well, thank you, everyone, for joining our call, and we look forward to further updates through the year. Everyone, have a great day.