Jochen Zeitz
Harley-Davidson, Inc. (HOG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, we've adjusted our pricing according to our new model year launch. In particular, in touring, it's important to make sure that the carryover products that our dealers have in inventory are priced competitively to our new products, which is why we've taken the action that Jonathan laid out in his presentation. We feel good about what we have taken in terms of action so far and we just have to recognize that the consumer environment in our industry with discretionary premium product has been challenged due to the high interest rates and we've taken action accordingly. So we feel the right pricing at this point in time, but obviously, we will be flexible to adjust whatever is required in the current environment.

In terms of mix, our priorities, as you know, and we have emphasized as part of the hardwire Stage 2 strategy, was to shift more towards the high value products from cruiser to trike to touring and the new product or the new model year launch, I think, is a clear indication of that. Sportster, we still had a decent amount of Sportsters in the network in 2023. We didn't ship any Sportsters until the end or after 2022. So those should anniversary themselves out of the network pretty quickly. But we feel that with the pricing that we have in our entry price point products, such as the Nightster and moving all the way up to our new touring models, we are competitively priced and have an exciting product offering market right now.

But as I said, it's still early in the season. We'll have to see how things go. We want to make sure that the network can move through the 23s as quickly as possible because we want to reduce the inventory in the dealer network, which is why we've emphasized that and we've taken according actions and will continue to do so if necessary.

Well not much to add to what I already indicated earlier. It's early in the year. We really need to get closer and into the writing season at this point in time. We believe we have an extraordinary product. Early reception is great, but the overall environment in terms of interest rate is certainly headwind which we, experienced very much throughout the entire year of '23 and we'll just have to see how it all works out and our retail guidance is a global guidance. It's not just the US or North America guidance.

Touring, while we've been able to shift the mix in the international markets including profitability more towards our profit focus categories, it has the most significance in the North American market. So that requires the US market to pull a lot of weight when it comes to retail growth in '24 and we just have to see what's possible. Early indications right now with our new model year launch are positive, but it's way too early to really give more concrete guidance than what we've said.

James, I've given Jonathan and the finance team the challenge to be able to give guidance on EPS as of next year. So mark your calendar and we'll hopefully be able to achieve that.

Well, we wanted to make sure that our new products are competitive and we believe that we've accomplished that for sure given the early reactions that we've seen in the market and as you rightly said, we included several key features and benefits that we previously had in our ST and special models in our mid-levels now and increased the price from the base level of our base models to reflect the additional content that now comes as a standard equipment.

In addition, we are offering a lot of P&A packages that allow our customer to essentially get up to a product that is at ST and special pricing level and features level and that's what we've tried to achieve by reducing at this point overall complexity of our touring setup. So I think it's the best of all worlds that we're achieving with our new pricing. It's competitive, but it's still 24,999 and that's while higher than our base models, it's lower than our STs and special. And again, if you look at the pricing actions that we have taken in the fourth quarter and our carryover products, that needed to consider the new pricing for our new models.

So STs and special needed to -- we needed to give support and continue to need to give dealer support to price them accordingly in order to move them out and sell them and I think that's essentially the key decision that we've made and so far it's proven very successful and the comments that you will see in online forums, people understand that there's a lot more key features and lot more benefits that we've previously had in our STs and special now already incorporated in our mid-levels.

Thank you, Noah. But I guess when we look at LiveWire right now, our focus is really about product innovation and cost improvement. We want to reach profitability as fast as we can. So we're in a strong position to capture the opportunity as the market develops. So right now we remain focused on our long-term vision of being the leader in a two-wheel EV industry driven again by innovation and performance in the short term, a strong internal plan to reach profitability as soon as possible.

Hi, good morning. I want to focus in on market share, which actually improved quarter over quarter, but I'm wondering where you guys are trying to structurally drive that to over time? Or is it something that that may be, this 40% level is the new normal given the shift in consumer demand to other types of bikes? Would you help us think about that longer term? Thanks.

Thanks, Jamie. Well, our focus of this part of this strategy has been very clear, shifting the mix towards our core focus, our core categories, right? That's the tri cruiser touring and that that shift has proven extremely successful. We've mentioned earlier, our average unit profitability is up from 1300 to $3,700. So, not being obsessed by unit sales over the last few years served us well in terms of overall profitability, which is improved from 6.3% to 13.6%. So extraordinary improvement.

That said, obviously, we want to grow our business to we believe that with our new model year '24, we have that opportunity, we have the right foundation, but we also need a more accommodating economic environment and when I say economic environment, then I'm talking about our industry and high interest rates that are a tough challenge for many of our core customers.

So I don't want to evade you the answer to your question, but, our focus is on growth and profitable growth and that's how we will complete our hardwired stage two strategy at the end of '25. What comes after that, we will address at the appropriate time. We do look at market shares, but we're not obsessed by market shares. I've never been never will, but of course, it's pleasing to see that in this tough environment, especially in the fourth quarter, we were able to grow our touring share back to 75%, large cruiser 80%. That's commanding.

Give or take 5%. That's always the swing that you're going to see throughout the year, also on a rolling 12 months forward, or backward and I think that's likely where we're going to be, but we believe there's an opportunity to take market share, especially in touring, and through our trike offering, because we have competitive and great product and that should see a positive development, certainly next year, if all our plans come to fruition and hopefully that will carry through in future years as well, at least until the end of our hardware stage two, which is at the end of '25.

The touring platform, as I mentioned, has been in development since 2020 and it's the first refresh and in fact, it's not a refresh, it's a complete rebuild from the bottom up in every respect and I think the positive reactions give us that opportunity, but it's a little early to comment how lasting that is going to be, but we feel very good about it.

'24, I'm ahead of time of your time. '24. Well, look, I've not much more to add. Maybe overall, I would say this really positive reaction to our overall pricing strategy with when it comes to the carryover product and our new product. I think that the decisions we've taken the fourth quarter will help us in '24 and I think, unilaterally positive reactions to our new street guide road, lots of excitement about our new CVO ST. We've started the trend with performance and picked up on a trend that we saw years ago developing, especially on the West Coast, but in other parts of America as well and we've, as I mentioned in my speech, we've tried to push that hard with our King of the Beggars race series and our race bike. So really bring a performance aspect into our product is now shown with our CVO Road Glide ST.

Fantastic product, very well priced and lots of excitement. I've been riding with a big group of influencers in Las Vegas and there was just a lot of excitement around our touring new touring bikes. I don't want to forget our first CVO ever outside of the touring category with our adventure touring bike, also a testament to our development on continuous focus and developing the adventure touring market.

So overall, we feel good about it and also the pricing in our entry product, Nightster, that we've adjusted accordingly, great product, especially for new riders as well as an entry bike. So we should see some positive development that in overall in the year, but as I said, it's early days. We don't want to get overly excited here. '23 was a tough year and interest rates haven't changed and the outlook certainly doesn't suggest that that's going to happen in the prime riding season. So we'll have to balance our excitement for the new product with realities of the market.

I think all we can say in the largest investment in a single platform that Harley-Davidson ever made.

Yes. Well, thank you, again to everyone for joining us today. Before we sign off, I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank Edel O’Sullivan for her many contributions to the company over the past three years and to wish her very well on her future endeavors. So thank you very much, Edel and thank you all for joining us this morning.