Joe Foran
Matador Resources Company (MTDR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, Scott, that's a really good question, and I'll start it off and others around the table can fill in. But constraints is probably not the best word for it. It's more about maintenance that the older systems they're going to have a leak here or there. There's going to be some part of the equipment that needs to be attended to. And they have every reason to get it repaired as quickly as they can because they're not receiving revenues while it's down for maintenance. And of course, we're eager for them to get it repaired as quickly, but that's just part of the business and operations that they're going to have a few more. But we appreciate the way they've gotten after it. We appreciate their communications. We've been fortunate on our part of our midstream system. We have not been down. But of course, we -- our equipment is out of the later vintage.

So everybody is working on the problem. And it didn't matter of well productivity. It's just these things go down, they need to be attended to. And -- but we have fairly limited exposure there. But it has had the effect of about 5,500 barrels a day for this month. When you put that in perspective of the whole year, this is one quarter that we're experiencing it. And if you put in the whole year, you're talking about maybe 1% of our expected annual production, and we think we'll make that up in the quarters to come fairly easily. We haven't taken into account any acquisitions in our projected production or very little. So you have that upside and you have the other efficiencies that our production group seems to come up with each year.

Neal, if you could repeat your question, you cut out in the middle of it. So if you restate the question, I feel better than trying to guess.

I think, Neil, a good point at this time since come up as we got some questions last night from people asking about the connector lines would they be on or not. And I want to just say again, for the record that we have a very high confidence level that they'll be on in the next quarter. Glenn, do you want to elaborate?

Well, all the permits are taken, all the surface use agreements are done, all the paperwork's done. They're out there working on it, two crews. So we're in control of our fate. It's just continue -- they've already done a substantial amount of the work. So again, we have a high degree. It will be finished in the same way with the other connector that's coming together nicely. And again, we'll have -- if we need to, to bring to expedite matters. We'll have a couple of extra crews. So they won't be waiting on us.

Yes. Neal, thank you for asking that question is, yes, the answer is yes. Last year, of course, Advance was our biggest deal ever and has drawn a lot of attention but our land group, our business development group did another 200 transactions. Most of them are -- some of them were very, very small. Some of them were a little larger. But they're out there, our land men, in particular out there all the time making deals, what the deals last couple of years have grown increasingly. It's just a rationalization of assets between companies. We -- you trade out of your non-op for somebody else's non-occupant that you operate. And so things like that are a little orphans out by themselves.

So I think those will come along. Companies are being very cooperative with each other. And these are small transactions that don't have that kind of by themselves a big material impact. But in the aggregate, they add up and they make your operations that much more efficient. So there's a real rationale to do that.

And then at the same time, some of the bigger outfits are wanting to concentrate their assets in one area or another. So those opportunities come up. And then you have private equity has always got a few things coming out. So I think it will continue and Van's group may want to say a word, but he has them out there on the road a lot. And -- and they've -- they're building relationships and just trying to do things that make sense for both sides.

Well, that's been the other key Neal is at Van and his group, hadn't done one deal and then just stopped to let the pipeline run dry. They just managed to keep deals floating on the pipeline, some of fall out for one reason or another. But by keeping deals in the pipeline all the time, there's that brick-by-brick approach. It happens each month. And it's been effective, and we like our chances. We like our ability of our land men to build those relationships and make those deals.

Yes. Leo, I'll take that question is that look, we are in a position. We have plenty of money on our RBL to fund it. We paid down our RBL over $200 million for what we borrowed on the Advantage acquisition. So that's the use of that is that it's there. We have over $1 billion on our RBL. We have good standing. So it's not a problem. Our criteria is not because we need some partner we're interested in somebody that helps bring something extra to the table that in some way that enhances the value or the efficiency of the system and the plant, so -- or gives drilling incentives like what we have with San Mateo. So is out there. If we can find a partner who can enhance it, we're interested in talking, but we're not just trying to get financing. And that doesn't have a lot of appeal because we already have that in place with our RBL.

We appreciated also that in [Indiscernible] worked with us on that transaction. They were primarily some minerals and some overrides and it was a good fit for us. And so we appreciate the follow-up and that we got that. It isn't huge. But if we do nothing like this, they'll have a favorable impact.

Chris, why you're on that area, I was going to ask Tom to talk about the U-Turn wells and the capital savings there. The same thing, and you look at Slide M on Page 16.

Billy, your group and you've had a lot of innovations for managed pressure drilling to the rig design. Do you want to say anything else you're working on?

Speaking of the efficiencies, we -- while we're giving shout-outs need to do some for Forrester Smith, who is out there all the time, pipe is there. We don't have to wait on it. I appreciate him and

That's still in the thinking stage and give us a little time to firm up our ideas and plans, and we'll be happy to share them with you. And -- but it's a little too tenant to go out there and then be -- why did we do exactly what that is. We've -- we're in the planning stage, and there's a lot of factors. And when we come out, we'll have all that detail for you, but it certainly is a matter that's on our mind we think a good opportunity to go along with our other opportunities. But we've got to prioritize because we have some great drilling opportunities and great third party and reconciling those is part of the process, the guys around this table or we're all thinking about with each other.

Yes. I do have a few closing remarks. The first is just to refer you to Slide 3, which summarizes our company highlights for last year. At this time last year, I was saying that we were beginning the year at about 100,000 barrels BoE per day and that I thought with the advance and our other drilling programs, we would boost that during the year and come up by 50%. And sure enough, we did. Our exit rate was 145,000 barrels. So great work by the team.

Second -- and Slide 8 just shows that and also emphasize that our alignment of interest that the management group itself has about 6% of Matador, and we have over 90% participation in our employee stock purchase program. So everybody in this room and throughout the company, it's just like you, that we've got chips on the table.

I'd also like to give a shout out to our measurement room. It runs 24/7 like our Maxcom and keeps an eye to be sure we're getting paid for each barrel of oil and MCF. And over the years, time period, they've added tens of millions of dollars. I think $32 million was the number we discussed at our Board meeting. So it's great work by the in tracking that and checking each barrel of oil at each invoice. Some of that's tedious work, but they've stuck to it and it's paid off.

I'd also -- just you all have asked a lot of really good questions, but I just want to be some things that emphasize the reserve growth from $360 million to $460 million. And if price of oil hadn't slipped, there'd be more oil than that. Some of those, as you would probably be approaching $500 million. And then the growth of the acreage itself, I think the land group, Van and his guys and the women -- the men, women, as land group that they increased the Delaware Basin position from 119,000 acres to 152,000 acres and if you remember, when we went public in 2012, and we're establishing this as an area of interest, we began with 7,500. So we've gone from 7,500 to 150 -- over 150,000. I didn't want that to go without being missed and that you have growing third-party revenues from customers out there in the basin. And these are really the blue chip companies, and we've tried to be careful.

Also, I've always believe I've been in this business 40 years. So I started with $270,000 today, and I think you put our assets altogether approaching $10 billion. And one thing is just kind of -- we're more of a tortoise and a Hare getting little bit by a little bit year after year.

And Slide K on Page 14, a shows you that it's been steady since we went public. And we see for the foreseeable with a number of locations that Tom and his team have been putting together the growth of the midstream Van’s acquisition team that this will continue and should be there. Billy's group is saving money on the cost, but he's also doing innovations that make us more capital efficient, such as the using these modern rigs to come in. And as Maxcom [indiscernible], am I saying that right?

They gave me a hard time on my -- some of my pronunciation, but that's been a big add. And you can see the outperformance that we've had over the years on Slide O compared to S&P 500 oil price ex LP. And I think that's a lot of what we have to offer a consistent performance with a strong balance sheet with our leverage ratio less than 1, and we intend to continue to keep an eye on the balance sheet because we're shareholders, too, and look for ways to boost the dividend.

So I do want you also to know that, look, we are available to you. If you've got questions, you need answers. Mac is really good. Welcome to your questions. Brian will take them. If you come visit us, we'll have -- we'll buy you lunch or breakfast and we'll have a more extensive. So we want to be open because we're proud of what we're getting done and it's kind of the old-fashioned pick and shovel bases and little by little. And we think our people on staff are working trying to get better every day.

It's corny to say that, get better every day and help the team get better. But that's what we aim for. And I think you can see it's from where we were a year ago to where we are today and the outlook going forward, we're still making very steady progress up and to the right. So with that, I'm going to sign off, but now our phone lines are open. If you need further follow-up and information, and thank you for taking the time that you have talked to us as well as study.