Joe Ferraro
Avis Budget Group, Inc. (CAR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And John, let me just jump in here. Let me just jump in here for 1 second and just give you some strategies behind it. When you think about managing fleet in the long term, fleet rotation is extremely important. How you buy cars and deliver them into your business and then exit cars out at the proper time at the right place is extremely critical. And I think over the long haul, when you think about buying and selling, one of the more important and overlooked aspects is how you rotate your fleet because it allows you to have or maintain a certain age level or mileage level that is both operationally prudent from an efficiency standpoint as it turns out to be in light vehicle costs as well as from a customer acceptance. And we've been doing that. I mentioned that throughout the entirety of last year, how we were rotating our fleet, thinking about how where we came from in post pandemic where the cars there were shortages of vehicles and the agent and mileage was getting up there. It was important to rightsize, and we will continue to do that even into the first quarter. And frankly, the way I look at it right now, we are going to get our fleet levels down as we continue to go from the first quarter, potentially into the second until we get to the peak

Thanks, Adam. This is Joe. Let me just say this. We haven't experienced any out-of-the-norm headwinds as associated with our EV supply chain and maintenance-related issues. I think if you think about what we tried to do with EVs, when I was visiting and talking to our OEM partners, back in 2021, they all talked about how there was going to be a larger portion of EVs coming in our -- on our future buys. And I left those meetings thinking that we had a first and foremost, figure out how we were going to charge them. If you think about providing a vehicle to a consumer, you can't provide a vehicle without gas and you certainly can't provide a vehicle in this time without a charge. So we spent a lot of time doing that. And then we dealt with a lot of OEMs. So we wanted a varied approach to fleet like we do with ice cars. We think it has a material benefit on supply chain or maintenance and damage related expenses over the long haul. It insulates us from recalls that may pop up from time to time, and it gives customers a more diverse product offering. We were watching what the demand curves will like from buying new car EVs versus gas cars. And there was uncertainty from us and from a rental standpoint about what demand would really be like in the rental environment because it was clear that people were buying them and charging them at their homes, but what was it going to be like when they took a car out on the road. And part of our strategy was to align and try to get as many of these rented at our airports in the places that would develop like the West Coast and more of the sunshine states. So we went in a -- like we do regular cars, more of a conservative approach on how we wanted to buy them, how many we wanted to have, while learning the logistics around what happens with them, how long it takes to charge them and get them ready for rental, the maintenance and damage associated with products and tried to rent them in segments that had the best possible drop through. I hope that helps. And you're right about your earlier comment. It's not a meaningful part of our fleet size.

Sure. I think there's the strong demand that we're seeing mostly coming out of the Americas in the last year and the year prior to that. So there is this demand curve that we are seeing, which causes us to have a lot of cars that we put on the road. And once you have a lot of demand, we have these -- we have our system, which is DFP. It's our proprietary system, which kind of measures, forecasting and prices in the marketplace and the amount of inventory that we have and gives us our best optimal price. One thing that I'm pretty pleased with is the fact that for the past 11 quarters, our pricing has maintained at a level above 2019. Now that's a long period of time. And during that period of time, obviously, there was the supply imbalances in the early years, post-COVID that created enormous rate generation. That is normalized and seasonality is certainly more apparent. I think as we go forward, you're going to see those elevated prices compared to 2019, I look at our advanced reservations going out, that hasn't seemed to change, certainly from a leisure standpoint. And if you think about our sometimes not spoken about our commercial book of business, which has grown since 2019. I know a lot of travel companies are talking about that getting back to 2019, but our commercial business has grown since 2019. And especially on the strategic ones, which are long-term larger commercial business have all come with a relative price increase. So the way I see it, the first quarter kind of be like a little more of the same as how we were compared to 2019, I fully expect the prices compared to '19 to be elevated. And I do believe that once we get into the peak, we continue to do what I said earlier about rationalizing and rotating our fleet out that it gets close to the 2023 levels.

Yeah, thanks. Yes. I'll start and Brian can add a little color. We've been talking about using the word transforming over the past number of calls. We've been heavily involved in generating efficiency in our business through an operational drop-throughs through cost efficiencies. We spent an inordinate amount of time looking at our productivity systems and how we developed and improve the amount of rate of efficiency, especially as it pertains to cleaning and renting cars. If you look at our overall performance, our productivity is better than where we were in 2019 with many more rentals. So I think we've established the framework of that level of activity. When you think about our in-life vehicle maintenance-related costs is in general. As we de-fleeted as I talked earlier about rotating some of our fleet out, as we de-fleeted some of our age and mileage cars, we've seen a definite improvement in how we organize around our in-life maintenance-related costs, also with differentiators and processes and procedures to organize around particular spend as it pertains to tires and glass, vehicle parts and things of that nature. So we've done that. We've been proved by overall operating efficiency of our systems. And I think what gets me excited about the Brian role, and I'll turn it over to him, is that we no longer what do we believe is our people need to be data miner. And Brian talked about earlier, getting the information, the technology, the data in front of them makes all boats rise at the same level and allows them to do what they do best, and that's operationally execute. So you'll see a continuation of that and a more normalization around our business. While we get into some of the other things that deal with revenue generation through advanced segmentation or fleet dynamics on how we buy and purchase and sell cars. I hope that helps. Brian?

I'll just start and then I'll throw it over to Izzy for more of the depreciation aspect. I will tell you that we have vehicle makes models of all types and especially around the hybrid PHEV. So we it's really early on those. We've gotten those in late during this past year. I can tell you the customer acceptance on them is pretty strong. But I think it's early for us to kind of give a feel of how they are doing, whether it be from a residual value effect because we haven't sold many or a supply chain effect as far as maintenance damage.

Great question. We normally get a question about that. But our budget truck business has -- a large part of it is last-mile delivery. And you're very right about, is there a business aspect to having some electrification of vehicles in that business. To answer your question, we have explored it. We have some in our fleet currently today. And like we explored the EVs in the rental fleet, it's a little -- this is a little bit different because you actually know the consumer who's renting it for you. It's a large package companies that go out and have skilled at managing their productivity and their teams. The only thing that we always look for in scenarios like that, they do operate in somewhat urban settings. So we are prudent about that. But we have we have some in our fleet now, and we have explored that. And so far, the acceptances from a consumer -- from a business standpoint, people are renting is pretty popular. Again, early on outside cost, but we haven't really seen anything materialize that I would be apprehensive about currently.

Yes. Okay. So like I said, I think the underlying business economics as it pertains to the consumer, I think, are strong. And we will continue to see that throughout 2024 as it pertains Chris, to both demand and price. So let's start off with demand. Demand we saw in 2023, we had the best summer on record, yet we come out of it, and we have the strongest October and a good holiday season. I think the fourth quarter depicts like that segmentation of travel. October, you would say, well, why would that be the business? Well, the busiest? Well, it has the biggest impact of both commercial and leisure in any given month. Commercial because there's a lot of business travel, a lot of conventions, leisure because all getaways and like I said, some combination of both, which I think is incredibly powerful. You have a person who goes on a business trip to a city. And we saw the cities start to develop bigger and bigger books of business last year than we had in the past. So it goes on a business trip to a city and then takes a weekend football game or something. I mean we've seen that combination of commercial that leads to leisure. And I do think that's pretty powerful when it comes to rental and rental demand. And we have a good number of commercial accounts. We have, like I said, more business than we did in 2019. I think you'll start seeing that kind of normalize from the big jumps that we had -- what we saw in previous years, the commercial and leisure spread. But price, as I said, we signed a lot of our -- in 2023, our larger commercial accounts at a price improvement, which is helpful and it's the first time we could say that, probably in many years prior, that was not the case. So we have done that on a go-forward basis. And I think the overall demand, my last comment, and the macro stuff surrounding demand. PSA volume has been up. As you look at the last -- if you look at PSA volume for the whole year, it was kind of flat to '19 until you got to the fourth quarter. And then it came up. And then what are the airlines talking about now or in travel in general. Well, the amount of seats that are going to be available in the first quarter and the second quarter that they're showing going to various destinations are up between 4% and 5%. And so the demand economics are good. Now you say, well, how is price? I think we took advantage of the supply-demand challenges that were faced in the industry and those post-COVID years. Person who had most cars in the places that matter most that had the best price seemingly could win that environment. And we did that. And now prices coming down and more normalizing. The fleets are not the same as they were back then. But I think extremely rational right? You hear what I'm trying to do in the first quarter, had a little bit of a delivery issue. We're rightsizing that and doing it immediately. I think as fleets kind of getting more in line as you go to the traditional peaks, which I believe will be elevated. The holiday periods and the summer season, those traditional peaks, people want to get out, and I believe those to be elevated. And that's going to support price. Now you say, well, it's going to be well over '19. I could tell you that. And I believe as you get closer to these peaks, it more normalizes to what we saw back in 2023. I hope that helps.

Yes. We don't really ever talk about market share as a company strategy or is something that we're driving. It's an outcome of how you perform in business is really that. And I think over the years, what we've tried to do is insulate ourselves by how we look at our segments and how we manage our business. Right now, inbound business is very, very strong, right? And it wasn't apparent in the prior years. And I believe that, that certainly will continue. What other people do with their fleets and their -- and how they go about is not something that I would suggest that we do here. We look at our own business, our own internal metrics, how we believe we need to grow it. We set our strategies. We have the performance metrics that we manage and look at market share for me is kind of an outcome.

Yes. That's what I would suggest. It would be -- second quarter being better than the first and the third quarter being the pinnacle. That's not going to change. It's just going to be a certainly a more elevated level than it was pre-pandemic.

Thank you. So to recap, we reported our best full year revenue in our company's history and our second highest adjusted EBITDA ever. We believe demand to continue to be strong and price elevated well above the 2019 levels as we manage efficiency improvements while keeping our vehicle supply tight. I want to take this time to thank all of our employees around the world for their tireless efforts in helping us achieve these results, and I'm excited to see what we can accomplish in 2024. As always, thank you for your time and interest in our company and be safe with this weather.