Joe Russell
Public Storage (PSA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. Apologies accepted, but you took some liberty there, Michael, but we'll address your question. All right. So let me start with consumer strength and what we continue to see in the portfolio that's been trending to a clear advantage, even with the performance we saw quarter-by-quarter in 2023. The consumer activity, first of all, in existing customers, as I've mentioned, has been quite strong, and we're really not seeing any on the margin evidence that that's likely to change even going into what we've seen through almost two months of this year.

Balance sheets are quite healthy. Payment patterns are still better than they were pre-pandemic. We're not seeing any undue or new stress evolving into customer activity. The acceptance of our ongoing revenue management tied to existing customer rate increases. We have a very active engagement process with existing customers that guides us to the tolerance and the level of activity that we're pushing through on ECRIs, that too has not hit different levels of either areas that we've become more concerned about.

In fact, it's validating many of the things that we've already talked about relative to the performance of existing customers and our confidence that that's likely to stay with us, even coupled with what Tom just mentioned, indicating in certain markets, where you've actually seeing the -- some good percolation taking place. That ties clearly to the kind of activity from a new customer demand activity.

We're having to work harder as we did all through 2023 with a variety of tools that we have. They're quite good. In fact, they continue to get much better. We are very confident market to market with our scale and the knowledge we have market to market. We have the right tools. We have the right brand. We have the right technologies to continue to pull customers to our platform, and we're going to continue to leverage those going into the next several months. With the anticipation, as Tom mentioned, that by summer or late summer, we're going to start seeing the residual effects to the positive from all those efforts.

And then Tom, you can tackle if you choose to, Michael's additional questions.

Yes, sure, Juan. I'll take that. I would say, at this point, we're continuing to see the same environment that we saw through most of 2023. So a lot of owners are reluctant to put properties into the market. Knowing that they're going to potentially not achieve the cap rate or the valuation that they expected based on prior year inflated valuations, et cetera, when interest rates were at a much different price point.

So the reluctance continues. The amount of activity going into the first part of this year, which is typically very light, is just that. We are getting a number of inbound discussions that are tied to properties that are quote-unquote not on the market to either test the water or judge whether or not we are ready to transact at a valuation that either meets or would be acceptable for that particular seller.

We do not have anything as noted in our release, currently under contract. The team is busy. We're engaged in a number of different conversations with a variety of different size opportunities, whether single assets or larger portfolios. But as we saw in 2023, the beginning of 2024 is likely to be very similar. And we'll see going into the next few months, if there's either some pent-up demand or additional realization that cap rates have adjusted, and we'll just see if, in fact, there's going to be more trading.

Clearly, one thing that could moderate that to some degree in push activity to a higher level is some activity by the Fed reducing interest rates, potentially with some impact on cap rate adjustments, et cetera. But frankly, there's just not a lot of trading going on right now to give you any really clear sense of how directly cap rates have changed at the moment. But the gap continues, meaning the level of seller expectations to what we feel are prudent ways for us to allocate capital. Many of the conversations just start with that, and we'll see how that plays out here in the near term.

And like many times, Jeff, it's never one single issue, but Tom just went through a number of the things that have given us more clarity and perspective going into this year that we think are, a, additive one by one. Another factor that's continuing to trend very favorably to the entire industry that we're seeing, particularly in nearly every market we operate in our reduced levels of deliveries. The development business has continued to be very, very difficult. Funding for new construction is either at a very high cost or from an availability standpoint, very limited.

The time to get through entitlements even for our own processes are continuing to be very difficult. So this too creates another additive element that we have even more perspective on now that we've been through a multiyear deceleration of new development deliveries, putting us in a very different position even year-by-year that we've had more confidence to say this is a different environment, very different than where we were even a year ago. So with that, we think that we've got the right perspective, continue to read the variety of tea leaves out there, but we are very confident that we've got the right tools to guide us and put the kind of perspective that we've got into our outlook for 2024.

And yes, just from a timing standpoint, Keegan, a little lighter in Q1 but then pretty balanced deliveries in the subsequent three quarters a little bit differently than what we saw in 2023, where we had a lot of deliveries hit more towards the second half of the year. So, we've got a good combination of both ground up new development, and we're a little over-weighted on expansion and redevelopment opportunities, particularly tied to unusually large projects that we'll complete in 2024. So -- as Tom mentioned, the team is working hard not only to continue to grow the overall pipeline, but to continue to put these generation five Class A properties into a whole variety of markets. And we're continuing to see very good lease-up and again, returns tied to the development activity, both new development and redevelopment.

And Spenser, from a strategy and appetite standpoint, we continue to look for properties that are potentially either lease-up opportunities or stabilization opportunities by putting those assets on our own platform.

So not shy at all about taking on lease-up risk. In fact, many times we see an actual pretty sharp improvement once we put those assets onto our own platform. And we're confident that again, those strategies will play well even going into this year. And continue to look for a whole range of different type of assets even based on age and maturity of the tenant base, et cetera.

But clearly, no differentiation relative to the strategy we've deployed over the last few years looking for opportunities when properties are far from stabilized, and again, buying the properties at the right price point, location, et cetera, continues to be very advantageous for us.

And on top of that, Ki Bin, as we've talked about, our digital platform continues to give customers the ability to again transact with us through not only digital platform, but now even through our care center, et cetera. So, we're making that conversion activity even that much more effective relative to -- again, consumer intent with all the tools that we have to get them to top-of-funnel activity, but then actually to the conversion itself from a speed, efficiency time of day.

Frankly, many of our customers transact with us and off business hours now. So all very good tools that continue to lead to a very strong conversion that to Tom's point, we feel like we've got good industry-leading capabilities that we're going to continue to invest and optimize going forward.

Yes. That's key component of the growth of the platform itself. It's a very relationship-oriented business. Thus far, we've acquired close to 40 assets out of the program. Over the last few quarters, it's been on the light side. Again, it's, I think, indicative of the environment that we've been seeing in acquisitions in general with many owners not of a mindset that this is the right time necessarily to do a transaction or a trade.

But with the growing platform itself, again, we saw very good traction in 2023. We've got good momentum going into this year as well. Those additive relationships, knowledge of the assets their comfort level with our own ability to transact very efficiently. We'll continue to be a good source of not only relationships but acquisition activity over time.

So, I noted that now the programs at about 325 assets. And we still see good momentum to continue to grow to our ultimate goal and optimization of the platform. So, we'll likely see that in the next year to two and with that more acquisition opportunities.

Well, I would...

And then again, Michael, as we've been speaking to, we're seeing, again, continued validation of, I would say, healthy economy, very consumer-oriented economy where the pressure points of a year ago or beyond relative to whether it was inflation, interest rates, employment, et cetera, are at a better place today with more clarity today than they were certainly at the beginning of 2023. That continues to play through relative to our own month-by-month operating metrics that we're seeing going even into 2024. So something would have to shift pretty materially away from that to give us a different low-end view as well.

