Joe Shoen
U-Haul Holding Company (UHAL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

This is Joe. Of course, we're looking at the cost base. We've been through this drill before. There's always more costs that can be eliminated, in other words waste. We're trying to fair it out, waste. At the same time, personnel, which is a big cost for us, is likely to continue to be just as big a cost as it has been. Jason has a metric of personnel cost to revenue, and we're about at historic levels. And I think we're very -- we're struggling to keep it at that level, I think would be the fair way to put that. You all are familiar with what's happened with retail employment, still very much in turmoil. There's very much a shortage of personnel, and we continue to try to access that pool of human beings to keep our stores and our dealerships running.

This is Joe. We don't really know how to U-Box business is going to track. Right now, we do more long-distance moves relative to short-distance moves if you're comparing U-Haul to U-Box. And so, while we saw flattening of U-Box in the third and fourth quarters, I think it's going to recover quicker than trucks because as soon as the longer-term users start to come back they're going to come back to U-Box. That's what I think. And this is all a business subjective judgment. We don't have enough big U-Box revenues to compare or forecast on that sort of thing. It's still operational. All the signs I see are that it's starting to turn more positive. We had a slowing though, for maybe five months. This winter, it slowed down. And I can't tell you that that's a trend or not a trend. I think it's going to pick back up. I think it'll outpace truck rentals over a five-year period.

[Multiple Speakers] Texas and California, big spread, Okay, are you -- page six of Jason's handout, $14.39 in Texas, $20.66 in California. Everything in California costs 30% to 40% more if you're just tied to sale. And on the other hand, Texas has more proliferation of product, which of course folds revenue down. So, there's a -- we're going to be in both markets, Jamie, just because we're U-Haul, okay. But don't look at this and just say, "Oh hell, you ought to be building in California." When you see your expenses in California you may just choke. But we are building in California, and we've -- of these properties, that Jason talked about that are un-built. We probably have 10 of those in California. I expect every one of them to be profitable, but we're going to probably have to get more than $20 or $0.06 a foot to make them profitable. And hopefully we pick the markets where we'll get those rates.

I think we are. And Jason's team doesn't work up on every potential acquisition, and we do a forecast and of course, try to of course accommodate what we think the rate environment is. What do we think the rate environment is going to be going ahead? And also, what's the mix of storage product in the area? Because there's more gradations of storage product than you might think. And so, if we can get the right mix, we can pretty much predict where we're going to go. All these projects are being hit by the cost of capital. Of course, we have some low cost capital right now. Jason is going to let us change our expected returns because of course he's going to be faced with having to refinance with higher price capital.

So, I think still a conservative approach, but we're going to expand, I think in every market I'll say, except maybe New York City. New York City, certainly Manhattan is now, and I don't know if anybody's making any money there or not, but you see us in Missouri, Indiana, of course, we're just in all those markets. And my field team see opportunity, and if we can, the financial model validates what they believe is going to happen. We're going to go ahead.

We look at it. That's number one. I'll tell you, of course we look at it, I think that -- again, when we look at it, has to go down. Are you comparing recent product with recent product or recent product with old product? And these markets run all over the place. Public storage is massively strong in California. Also has a ton of older product in California that they're getting a rate on, which is very impressive to me because I don't see us getting quite that rate on older product, but they seem to from the numbers we see. I think when we look at this we look at the competition in a geographically constrained area, not the income for the whole state. So, we'll look at a project in California. We're going to survey the facilities within what we think is the market area and we're going to attempt to be always in the upper third on rate. Some places we have to be in the upper 15% or 20%, as in California to get a new project to go.

We're not to drop revenue per square foot team, so we're not a big discount team. Everybody has different strategies. A lot of people go in and they're 30% or 50% off for the first year. We don't do that ordinarily Jamie. We pretty much stick to a rate. We also are different than, I think all of our significant competition, we publish a rate, we post it. Most of our competition is more like the hotel business. Their rates will change several times a week. So, we're not doing that. We post a rate and everybody believes their system is better. I'm not going to go crow about it, but I think our system has worked out well for us over years.

I'm going to let Jason try to answer that.

I'm not going to totally agree with that. I think we're still leasing up at better than historical rates. Now, it's not over till you're up in the 90s somewhere. And so, typically, you get gains up to 60% pretty quick and then depending on a lot of different factors, you may struggle to go from 60 to 85. If we've executed our plan right, we don't want to see the projects hit some sort of an invisible wall there, but that can happen if you aren't careful. So, I think we're still leasing up faster than we did five years ago in, let's say, kind of halfway comparable situations.

I think we're doing a better job of leasing up, and I think there's demand out there still, depending it's geographically specific, Jamie, it is not anytime you try to generalize across a market like Phoenix, it's just hot air because some parts of town are just you've got a big opportunity. Other times it's very, very competitive. So, we're trying to sort those things out. For properties that we've opened in the last three years, on average, we've picked up about 12 points of occupancy, more than what we traditionally did in the first year, about 16 points the second year, then it starts to come back down to more normalized numbers after year three.

All land use is a battle. I can't think of a place where there's not a battle for land use and the absolute moratoriums stick out, but there's de facto moratoriums in several markets. They just grind you to a halt. They slow you down. We've got a real nice property in -- that one, big one we bought in LA. What's the park? It's called --

Huntington Park. It's a historically industrial area. You'd think this would be a slam dunk. They fought us for here, throwing everything they can at us, because basically they want someone to come in and put in residential on this property. And obviously we're not a residential builder. And so, they've just thrown everything at it. This is historically -- they were storing sea containers on it when we bought it, if that gives you an idea. This is not a place you'd put residences, but the cities have their view of it so they don't have, they voted on moratorium. But to say they're hard on self-storage, just to put it politely. And that repeats. That just happens to be an expensive piece of property. So, it's front of mind for me. But this is pretty much across the country and I think it's experienced by all users.

We may be at a somewhat disadvantage because if they like self-storage, they don't like trucks. If they like trucks, they don't like self-storage. So, we kind of have to morph our presentation depending on what we think the proclivities of local land use is. We have some places, we only do truck rental, we have some places we only do storage, but we believe that the combination is considerably more economical than the standalones, and so that's the way we bring it to most land use.

Well, that's my everlasting hope, but there is so much money out there, Jamie, and so many hustlers, people are building storage projects just to beat the band, and amazingly, the market has absorbed this for the last 40 years. We'll continue that strong absorption over the next five years. I have no way to know. When we first did our estimate to the market, we estimated one square foot per person. I mean that's like embarrassing, okay? And so, today many markets are 20 square foot per person. And so, where is the real end of this? The Storage Association does some statistics that they are real proud of. And they think like something like 11% household which are currently using self-storage. Well, the only thing I'll guarantee is 11% won't hold market-to-market. Does that make sense? So, there are various strategies to markets where it's 20%, and there is going to be some markets that's under 5%. We are trying hunt down the 5% markets obviously and get in there, and then hope we get it right.

Well, I just thank everybody for being here. We have a good team in place. We are dug in for the long haul. I think we are going to be happy with our results over extended management period. Tough for us to tell what's going to happen this year for sure, but I can guarantee we will be on deck and working hard. So, thank you for your support. Look forward to see you next quarter call.