Joe Craft
Alliance Resource Partners, L.P. (ARLP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you for the question. So we did finish the year, as you mentioned, with those coverage ratios that are included in our press release. As we look to 2024, as we've indicated, we believe 2024 has a potential to be just as good as 2023. There are opportunities as we go looking towards 2025, we're also optimistic about our opportunities in ‘25. We just talked about the capital will be coming down substantially in ‘25 versus ‘24. We believe our operating costs will be lower, and primarily because of the efficiency of projects we've talked about. We believe natural gas should be higher priced in 2025 because of the LNG terminals that are coming online in back half of 2024 in the United States. So there's a lot to be optimistic about. We've signed some long-term contracts that give us some stability through 2028. Yet at the same time, we do have not as much contracted in ‘25 as we have in ‘24, where we've got over 90%. So I think as we move through the year, the Board will make a decision on a quarter-by-quarter basis as to whether to maintain the distribution at the $0.70 level. I believe we're in a position to do so, and that would be my expectation. And another factor that we'll have to consider is how does the market react to our continued growth and our continued opportunities that we have in front of us. As I've mentioned in the past, we've been disappointed that our unit price didn't track the distribution increase that we gave in 2023. So it'll be a quarter by quarter decision. But we are -- as Cary mentioned in his prepared remarks, we're very focused on growing our company, maintaining and growing our cash flow, and returning that to the shareholders, similar to what we've been doing over the last 25 years.

So as far as the actual volume beyond 2024, I don't have those numbers right now. I don't know if you've got those, Cary. But back to the pricing, the pricing in ‘24 of our contract book is comparable to what our 2023 average revenues are. Domestic contracts do have escalators in them. Some are fixed. Some are actually indices. Their -- our export volumes, I believe, just goes through 2024. I don't think we have any in the out years, and those are fixed prices. Some of them do have indices -- they do tie to indices, specifically our metallurgical contracts are tied to some indices that will fluctuate based on what the market is. What did I miss from your questions?

And the message is they understand that they need to start layering in some volume. And they're basically giving us confidence that those plants are needed not only through the ‘28 time period, but beyond. So we are hearing from our customers that the expectations are that with grid reliability, with the growth in electrification, that the existing fleet of coal plants need to stay open longer. And we will see that play out. I mean, the Biden administration continues to suggest that they don't need to keep the plants open, whereas Republican candidates have all suggested that we do. So I think that we believe that the law of physics is [now required] (ph) and the growth and demand that these plants will stay open and we're very confident that our production volumes will be sustained for the next five to six to seven years.

Yeah, the whole range is going to be dependent on the export market. So we've seen the export pricing on the indexes drop probably $10 to $12 in the last month. We don't believe that's sustainable. We believe that the pricing will get back in the API2 level that's greater than the $110 to $120 range, because we believe that's what the world supply will demand for those products. We do believe that demand is stable. However, the pricing right now is a little soft. And so the whole swing will be how we place those export tons throughout 2024 that will be the determining factor as to the ranges that you spoke to. But when you look at the total compared to our UI position, it doesn't move the needle that much because we have so little times that are needed to be placed for 2024.

Thank you.

Good morning.

So, yeah -- so we, in the last earnings call, we felt like the longwall would be up and running by the end of November and it was actually delayed until the end of December. So we did have some shipments that we needed to buy some coal that we thought we would be able to produce that we came up with short and we may have to actually buy some in the first quarter. The longwall did come up the last week of December. It is operating as expected. But depending on whether the timing of shipments is possible, we may have some purchases in the first quarter. I don't believe we are anticipating anything beyond that.

Well, the initial project they were working on, they basically are making equipment that effectively we're going to be testing in our operations in 2024. That'll start, I believe, in the second quarter of this year.

Cary, do you have those more specifics? And then that will roll in, and then we will start to hopefully be marketing those in 2025.

And we've got another motor technology that we're also working on that would also need MSHA approval. And that's too, we would think that that would be manufactured and then sold into 2025. Our initial focus will be domestically, but then it too would be rolling out, similar to our proximity device and IntelliZone that is currently being marketed in South Africa and Australia.

I think that when we look at it, to try to give you some idea, so I think we've got invested around $67 million in Infinitum. And we believe that cash flow that we'll receive just from these two announcements are going to give us an attractive double-digit return just on net investment as a byproduct of that relationship. And [that doesn't even] (ph) anticipate what we would get on that actual investment in Infinitum. So that sort of gives you an idea of the scale of the opportunity just from this one or these two products that we are talking or are ready to design, build, and sell into the marketplace.

So essentially, we had -- longwall at Mettiki didn't operate the second half of the year. So that now is operating. So you're going to see us go -- that volume to come back into the market. At MC we went from four units to three units starting, I believe, in September or October. So we're planning to operate at three units at MC. We do have some new equipment there. So we think that our cost should be rather relatively stable. ‘24 there, but….

I'd say you're looking at the 50s, not the 40s. The industry has experienced inflation like all others. But -- so all of our costs have gone up somewhat just because of inflation. But then you factor in going from four units to three. Another factor in Appalachia in 2024 is we're in the process of moving to the new reserves we bought at Tunnel Ridge. And so we do have shorter panels in 2024 compared to historic as well as projected in ‘25 forward. So we're probably going to have some reduction in volume at Tunnel Ridge that enters into that mix. But, yeah, you're looking at probably mid-50s in Appalachia for the year would be the estimate right now, which is what we've sort of guided to, the $54.25 to $57.25.

Right now, our quarter -- our first quarter appears to, it looks like it'll be in the low end of the range, if not lower than the range. So if we can get the volume out of Mettiki that we're anticipating, the first quarter should be a good quarter. Then when you look at the trajectory beyond 2024 into 2025, we should start seeing the benefits of us getting into the new reserves at Tunnel Ridge. So we should see some decline in the 2025 time period, depending on the inflation of course, inflation could take some of that away from us.

So I think our priority, as Cary mentioned, will be pay down the debt. We will be paying down the senior notes in ‘24 and potentially in the first quarter of next year. However, he's also looking at refinancing, or entering into some facilities that will give us capacity to grow. Some of them will be funded, but hopefully some of them will be unfunded, be revolver type arrangements. So then as far as growth, we've talked about oil and gas. We'll continue to invest there. We will still have opportunities to invest in other items. There's nothing on the horizon that I can give you any specifics on how we would allocate that capital, but we are continuing to look at multiple areas of investment. And so we've got a capital allocation process that will evaluate investments in future cash flow growth, which we do put as a priority. And then alternatively, we will look at whether there are other uses for that capital. I mean, I think that distributions have continued to be high on our priority list. So it's my goal that distributions will be consistent, but we got to evaluate the future on a quarter-by-quarter basis as we talked about. So that will include not only just the future markets but just as important the opportunities in front of us to make investments.

So, we have seen an improvement in our retention and our availability of labor, specifically in Illinois Basin as an example. So we do have the Henderson County mine that we are developing that should become operational. Well, it is operational as we're ramping, but it should get to where we will be increasing staffing at that mine by the end of 2024 or during 2024 as that ramps up. We expect that that plant or that mine will be -- will have more production starting in 2025, that -- effectively what we're doing at River View is we're basically having two portals instead of one. And that second portal will be at Henderson County. So there will be some hiring there. There still is a need of some hiring at our mines, just back to normal attrition, not what we've been experiencing in the last two or three years, but what we would consider to be normal. So I think on a labor front, we're in a better position than we have been historically. At MC Mining, we still see challenges, so we're currently not anticipating increasing that mine back to four units. It's possible, but that's the one area that we're continuing to see challenges of being able to attract sufficient numbers to commit to bringing back that unit. But I think everywhere else, we've been encouraged by the recent activity of people wanting to come work for us.

I think, our goal is to maintain, more than likely, just as a working inventory level, given the amount of tons we're putting in the export market. It's right at a million tons a month. But it will fluctuate based on timing of vessels, because the vessels take, it may be on the 30th, it may be on the second, so there could be 60,000 to 100,000 tons right there that could put us in a position that we could be a little higher than that. Our goal would be to maintain inventory right at that million ton a month level. Right now I think it's around 1.3 million, something of that nature, but -- so it's going to be in that swing area I would say.

The pause is not in construction. It's on new permits. It may be permits of the under -- currently under regulatory review. But as far as the terminals that are under construction, they're continuing to be completed. And the permits that have been issued that are not under construction, it's our understanding that those two are allowed to proceed. So we don't anticipate any interruption in the demand indoor supply for LNG until the end of the decade as a result of these permits. We believe that these permits -- these plants that have been permitted will in fact be developed and that the demand for LNG will continue to be strong for the remaining decade.
