Joel Anderson
Five Below, Inc. (FIVE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Matt. Like many have seen February was soft, and we've seen it improve here in March. What's hard to tease out for the March improvement? Is it due to the tax refunds starting to normalize, although they are still about 10% behind - or is it due to the early Easter versus last year? And therefore, that's what we won't know fully until we get through the balance of last year's Easter cycling. But we have definitely seen a nice improvement from what we saw in February. And then the first quarter cadence.

Thanks, Matt.

Yes. Thanks, Seth. It's a really good question. And let me try and answer that as simply as possible. You're right, our prior guidance assumes shrink mitigation efforts would reduce our overall shrink expense. However, what we did see is that - we were successful in stopping the absolute rate from growing. And what we saw in January was roughly the same rate we saw back last August, September. So that seems to point towards - we roughly are at the high watermark.

As far as our guidance goes, it reflects the same exit rates as what we saw here in January. So it does not reflect there being any improvement in shrink. But it also doesn't require us to get any better in order to fulfill our guidance overall. Thanks, Seth.

Yes. Michael, I think it's a fair question to ask. And I think - as far as the long-term goes, while we're not giving guidance on the long-term today, we're also not changing our outlook on the long-term.

And as I said in my prepared remarks, towards the end - it is still our expectation to either mitigate the shrink headwinds or take care of that with other initiatives like on margin price. We - and certainly, given what we saw in Q3 and Q4, I don't think it would be prudent on our part to give you any of you a guidance that requires an improvement in shrink.

But I think it's fair to say, Michael, as we begin to see improvement, that will certainly turn into a tailwind. What's unique about shrink is when it's going the wrong way, you always have that true-up, and that's why the fourth quarter felt extra challenging. But when it goes the right way, you get the true-up to your benefit. But that wouldn't come until later in the year. We are going to do physical inventories earlier than we ever have, beginning in Q2, and we'll do that in Q3 as well as we traditionally do in Q4.

Yes. And so on the SG&A challenges, Scot. At the end of the day, it doesn't do us much good at the operating margin level if we have to take up labor by 30 points just to reduce shrink by 30%. So, it's a little bit of a balancing act of how much labor can you put in to reduce shrink faster than that. Kristy certainly called out that we expect some payroll increases.

So we have started to put some payroll in there. And because shrink is a lagging indicator, not a leading indicator, the benefits from shrink will follow, but maybe not necessarily at the same time. But overall, our net goal is to increase SG&A pressures slower than we expect to see rate declines in shrink.

Very good. Thanks, Scott.

Yes. And look, I think we expected several questions on shrink, and we want to help clarify with everybody because there is a lot to unpack here when you consider multiple quarters, the full year guidance, the impact required of accounting true-ups, accruals, et cetera, et cetera, John. So I think it's pretty good. Your first part of that though was versus 2020, and that's where the confusion starts. You said $150 million.

Some of that $150 million is true-ups and that type of thing. But round numbers versus pre-COVID, so let's call it 2019, we're up about 100 basis points. And the second part of your question was that, do we expect to recapture that? And I called that out in my prepared remarks, and we still expect to play offense and aggressively pursue returning to pre-pandemic levels of shrink or offsetting that impact with other measures, and I called out specifically price.

And finally, it was about are we seeing it in different categories. The certain categories have always been higher shrink than other categories. I don't - I think relative to their past trends, everything is kind of moving in the same relative range. What we do know is that in higher prime rate index stores, the shrink is higher than lower crime index stores. And we know that our self-checkout stores are higher than non-self-checkout stores.

So, the opportunity really rest immediately in tightening up our policies and how we operate in our high shrink self-checkout stores - or sorry, our high crime index self-checkout stores. So John, hopefully, that gives you some more color on what's going on with shrink.

Yes, it's a great question. And I think, in general, what I would say to all of you is that shrink aside, we really had a great year in 2023. Our Q4 success at the department level is probably the most departments we've ever had positive since I've been here. So it really was a broad-based win for the merchandising groups.

And as it relates to specifically the inventory Kate, this is something that since Kent took on the new role as COO in area that he’s been very focused on. And while we continue to make improvements there, Ken would say we still got a long ways to go.

But I'll tell you relative to where we were two years ago with the supply chain, I felt really very positive about our inventory levels. They continue to get better quarter-over-quarter. And there's no glaring areas that we're overly concerned about. It just keeps getting better. Thanks, Kate.

Yes. No, it's a good question. And Christian, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it adjusted for Q4, it moves up to the mid-80s. Is that right? And overall, Chuck, there's really no concerns on our part for new store productivity. Sorry, that's for the year, it moves up to mid-80s on the full year.

I think Q4 was - this is the most amount of stores we've ever opened in Q4 and that played somewhat into how the calculation is on NSP. But overall, having a new store productivity in the mid-80s for the year. And then if you look at our guide for this year, at the midpoint, it's also right in the mid-80s.

So both the exit rate of 2023 and the guide for 2024, we're sitting in the mid-80s. I think 2019, we're upper 80s. And then earlier years were in the '90s. But that was more driven to - we had massive marketing campaigns when we opened new stores. So this - we've been consistently now settling down into the mid-80s and feel pretty good about that number, Chuck.

Well, any new stores we opened in the fourth quarter, we don't give them holiday product as an example, so - because the timing of when they open is so late. And I'll remind everybody, our long-term goal is to get back to not having a large wave of fourth quarter openings. And this year was the latest we opened all the way up into like second or third week of December. So a lot of change. But no, overall, Chuck, no big concerns on NSPs

Yes. Look, Ed, we own this one in terms of probably being a little too optimistic on how easy it would be to turn shrink around. And at the same time, it happened right going into the fourth quarter, and it's really hard to mobilize a whole different workforce plan during Q4. And you're absolutely right that one of the benefits of self-checkout has been that we no longer have lines in our stores in Q4, and you've been with us a long time and you remember those days.

As we turn towards 2024 here, we certainly have immediately gone to an associate checkout at the register. And what I mean by that specifically is that our customers should experience an associate scanning the items and then a customer finishing the transaction, whether they're paying cash or credit card. That is what we believe is a nice balance between we're ensuring everything is being scanned.

We're providing a heightened level of customer experience and then the associate can move on to the next item, our next customer while the transaction piece is done. So it's kind of allows for two to one. And we plan to continue that into the holiday, and it will probably be focused at holiday realistically in our high shrink markets and our high self-checkout shrink stores. So we don't need to necessarily peanut butter at holiday if we can effectively make some significant changes here during the first 10 months of the year. Thanks, Ed.

Yes. The large benefit of freight this year will be in Q1 and then begin to moderate as we move through the year because we'll lap the lower rates from last year. So that's how we see freight. I remind everybody, we don't play in the spot market. Our rates are already locked up through spring of next year. And so we have a pretty good sense of where freight is going to be for the year, and there should be no surprises there.

And the second part was on payroll wages. There wasn't much in there for last year. And in fact, I'll tell you, George and the store operators have done a great job over time of mitigating wage inflation with productivity gains in the stores. And those two have continued to balance out for the last five, five years. We are making some additional wage investment this year, and that's to really focus on improving shrink. Thanks, Michael.

Hi David. Let me take that. And Kristy, if I missed anything, jump in. Look, nothing has really changed from what we said. I'm talking about the top line here. What we've said to you at ICR in that our long-term algorithm is 2 to 4 comp and we expect 2024 to be on the low end of that, largely driven by the five less days at holiday.

And David, if you recall, 2019 we misguided there and we really didn't effectively account for the five less days, which is the sister year from when that happened. So, if you look at where Kristy guided, the 0%to 3%. It's focused on the midpoint, it's about 1.5%, just slightly below what we said at the 2%, and that's almost entirely driven by what we've seen here in Q1 with tax refunds and have not seen any change in how we're thinking about the outlook for the rest of the year, and we'll move forward from there.

Yes. Look, Jeremy, we're not at the point of giving specific guidance on individual quarters at this point in time. But we have said in the past that the each day, incremental day or each day going backwards is somewhere between 20 and 50 basis points impact. So if you just take the midpoint of that, you're talking about 150 basis point impact. And so, I think Q4 that's in the 0% to 2%, 0% to 1% range is probably the right way to think about it.

But let us get closer to the holiday. Too early to think about SG&A changes. We moved very fast since January in terms of really tightening up our self-checkout, in fact, converting it from self-checkout to associate checkout. And I would expect any SG&A gain - any SG&A increases to be offset by shrink impact. Kristy, anything different?

Good. Thanks, Jeremy.

Thank you. Yes. Look, it's - and when you say Five Beyond, we specifically all my comments here are in the Five Beyond format stores because I think that's the better way to look at it. And what we saw consistent with the other three quarters is we're seeing a mid-single-digit lift in stores that we convert and that continues throughout their first year. The fourth quarter was no different than that. Those stores that were converted were roughly in that mid-single-digit range. And then in year two, we expect them to comp right in line with the chain comp. And that also continued in Q4 as well. Thanks, Anthony.

But gross margins in Q4 are relatively flat.

And Paul, on ticket, just recall, we don't see a big difference in ticket between Five Beyond format stores and non-Five Beyond stores, the increase is coming in transactions. And that's something we've talked about a couple of times. Honestly, when we first started rolling this out a couple of years ago, that even surprised us. But what we're seeing is, Five Beyond, is giving the customer another reason to come to Five Below.

And so they're relatively spending the same amount in a transaction, but they're coming more often. So we're seeing transactions increase, and tickets relatively flat overall - a person that puts a Five Beyond item in the store. That transaction is about double a non- Five Beyond transaction. And that's been pretty consistent for the last two years ever since we started converting the stores. Thanks Paul.

Yes. Joe, it's a good question, a fair question. We've been on the streamlined process for quite some time, everything from - we're using Placer AI now to help us evaluate stores, which allows us to do it quicker. The legal team has streamlined with some AI advantages, how quickly they're able to approve leases. All those add into - add up to weeks not days. And so it's less about the approval at the Rec committee level and it's more about the individual components that get it to the Rec committee and then leases signed after the Rec committee.

And this has been going on for a number of years with a extreme focus when we had the setback from the supply chain crisis, which impact real estate as well. And that's when we really work to kind of perfect all these. But Joe, we continue to see consistency in our stores. I think Chuck asked earlier about NSPs, the fact that continues in the mid-80s, again, looking at the full year, kind of sense some leading indicators that we continue to approve the right level of stores. But great question. And as we continue to move up, we got to keep that due diligence only. Thanks, Joe.

Yes. I mean, I think that just shows you that we really - the only change we've seen in consumer behavior overall it's been the - due to the tax refund that really impacted the month of February, and we're starting to see a catch-up here in March. But overall, I would attribute that to our customer sees the value in our stores. They continue to come to us to solve needs that they have. And we've also seen the last place when a consumer feel squeezed is cutting out on their kids. And so it's great to see the families in there.

The next two weeks really kicking off with this Friday will be a big surge in business for Easter. And that tradition given the early read on our Easter product seems to be very positive. And so I think the only thing we've seen different from our end has been the impact that tax refunds had. Thanks, Andrew.

Hi, thanks, everybody, for getting on for our Q4 call. Obviously, a lot of questions about shrink, and we're happy to continue that dialogue with you. But shrink aside, as I said earlier, a really strong quarter for us. We're really pleased with the progress we've made on our long-term goals in 2023, that should continue to drive success in 2024 and beyond. Thanks, and have a great day.