Joel Quadracci
Quad/Graphics Inc. (QUAD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. I think probably -- Kevin, this is Joel. The best way for me to kind of walk through that is start with 2023, and we'll kind of roll forward with what we can say. And we always talk about large-scale print is where we continue to expect organic decline, especially in retail inserts, and it's been a double-digit clip for many years, and that's just one of those lines that we just manage and we manage it down and get great free cash flow from that. So it's a manageable process.

The thing that happened in '23 at the beginning of the year, I'd say two themes. One would be economic uncertainty. We are hearing that from our clients. I think everyone was hearing it around the world. And that definitely sort of muted a little bit how they were sharing with us their 2023 plan. You could see it being built in.

The other part was significant interest rate increases like, as you know. And where that really impacted us hard was on direct mail because we had a pretty big exposure to the financial segment, including one main player exiting the consumer banking business. And so with large interest rates, you saw a very big pullback in direct mail and especially amongst consumer lending services. So that's what impacted that.

The second theme that I would say is really important is that the post office decided they were going to -- they did an early increase in the first part of the year, but decided to go forward with a significant increase in the middle of the year with a combined 10% to 14% increase in our clients' biggest cost. Clients did not expect the second one, and so they had already locked in their budgets for the year. And so whenever this happens, again, it's the biggest cost, we saw the second half significantly decline specifically in catalog and direct mail as a result of the postage increase.

This was not digital disruption. This was a significant above-inflation increase by the post office. And so what happens is they reduced their prospecting mailing pretty significantly right away to make up for it. You have your catalog you sell off your existing customers, then you have names you rent to try and get customers. Whenever there's a big out-of-whack increase like this, it's typically a pullback in that. And that -- we saw that in the second quarter. I think that when we looked at catalogs for the year, sales was off about 6% year-to-date, but that would be very heavily back-end loaded where we saw the decline.

As I roll forward and think about 2024, the post office has announced another significant increase. They just passed along about a 4%, 4.5% a couple of weeks back, but they're planning on going forward with the 10% in July. This is absolutely, in our belief, not a sound strategy because marketing mail is one of the backbones for making the rest of the post office work. And as everyone knows, no one is going to let the post office go away.

So I'm not concerned about losing the ability to distribute through the post office, but everyone should be concerned, and that's where we're working with Congress, the White House, et cetera, everyone should be concerned that there's going to -- they're heading for a major taxpayer bailout or takeover because right now, postage is what funds the post office by its own. And so it doesn't make sense. I mean it's literally triple the inflation rate of what they're trying to do, over 57% increase in the largest cost in the last three years. It makes no economic sense for anybody.

We have that built into our guidance. We put in more expected organic decline due to postage into our guidance. We hope that it changes, but we're managing as if it goes through. Also I hinted towards -- we are about to roll out a major product. We've, for many years, innovated around doing a lot of work for the post office. And years back, the post office our customers to skip most of the post office to get big discounts. And so we do that in the form of what we call mailing and skipping a lot of the infrastructure and doing the work for the post office. We've got a new product coming out that potentially could help save people 10% to 20% of their postage costs. So while not offsetting this inexplicable increase that the post office is doing, but at least helping to make it manageable, but I'll reiterate that build back in.

From an interest rate standpoint, on the direct mail side, I'd say we're starting to see some of the core financial segment coming back, maybe not in personal lending. But I'm also seeing people who may have pulled away from direct mail, starting to come back in. And we've got several conversations that are very promising because the strength of direct mail, it works. And you've got also a decrease in the effectiveness of digital going on with the deprecation of cookies, et cetera. And so everyone is looking at the full media mix to try and optimize it and they're not going to be ignoring print. Does that make sense, Kevin?

That's the way we're looking at it. And I'll remind you though that in large-scale print, we continue to expect double-digit decline, and that's what we've been saying for years. But in the areas of like catalogs, direct mail, that would be accurate.

Yes, what we've been told is they don't believe in something called elasticity that volume declines are because of digital disruption. And if you talk to a lot of mailers out there, they say we went through a lot of the digital disruption, but we still use catalog and direct mail in our mix. And that this particular era is about this huge increase in cost. I mean it would be like telling me that my biggest cost labor is going to go up 57%, and I have no ability to pass it on to my customers because most of the world is stuck at raising prices somewhere in the CPI range. It's just the math doesn't work.

Now no one single person can influence this, but we speak on behalf of a lot of different mailers. We work in conjunction with the C21, which is made up of a lot of different groups. I've testified in Congress multiple times as we got the post office huge relief just a couple of years ago after working on a bill for 10 years. They save billions of dollars by not having to pre-form retirement health care and things like that. But the downside was is they got released from having to capped their postal rates at the same rate that everybody else in the world is capped at about CPI. And no one thought they would go to extreme levels like this. And it just logically doesn't make sense. You don't run a business this way.

So we're hitting it, but I will also tell you there's a lot of big players out there in the non-profit world. Non-profits are getting killed by this. And you think about the ARPs of this world, that there's a lot of other players who do a lot of their own lobbying that you will see a lot of -- right now, there's a lot of people screaming. And ultimately, it's getting Congress' attention and hopefully, the board of governors who will oversee it to bring some rational behavior to bear. And again, it's not going to go away, but I think that they should be worried about a massive taxpayer takeover, which no one wants because there's too much of that going on.

Yes. We will work to backfill it. I hate losing clients. This client, we did a lot of complex things for across multiple services. And the two things I'll just say on it is that, we need to get paid for what we do. We're not asking to help the world, but we have to get paid for what we do with all these complex services we do. And I'll also say that the -- this customer is also managing through some very significant complexities of their own. So I'll leave it at that.

Yes. I just think it's just so important for my employees and my shareholders that as we invest in all these things, that we get paid a fair price. That's all we ask. We get paid for a huge benefit we're giving people by providing all this integration, postal savings, all the different things that we do. And so sometimes, that results in answers you don't like, but the best answers for the long term of my company.

Yes, I'd say that the pipeline is actually -- is heating up nicely because remember, we just relaunched our brand a year ago, and a lot of this is about opening up the aperture to clients we never had access before. And so we really weren't direct to CPG and things like that. We weren't always in the agency space or viewed as it of providing media solutions. And so we really ramped that up this past year. I mean, a couple of years ago, I never -- I'd never thought I'd be telling you that we're redesigning the brand look for Titleist Pro V1.

When you look at what we shared about Wolverine today, think of this as a flywheel. It's not just an agency solution I want to win, I want to win the relationship. And any entry point is a great entry point. So Wolverine, we entered in -- we're able to suddenly offer them quite a few different products and services to solve their problem. I'd like to see if we enter into a creative space with someone that suddenly then we're talking about for packaging, for instance, how does then that package appear on in-store.

Let's talk to our in-store people. By the way, with our retail media network we're launching as we start to help manage your media spend, we'd love to take the data that comes out of the retail media network to sell CPGs on advertising within the store with eyeballs, but then using the data that we get out of that experience to further go after new audience. And so think of this all as a big flywheel that's speeding up. And it's creating a lot of revenue and will create revenue across a lot of the print channels as well, especially in targeted print. And I think, Wolverine is a great example of that.

And then the one last point on the revenue side is what I've been talking about, the wild card is a bit of how does this postal thing play out. Do they hold steady on their strategy, or do other thoughts come into play that correct that.

Yes, it was -- from a size of a deal, it's not a large deal, but it's an important one. That team has been around for several years, working with a very large retailer currently that they've deployed it in for several years now. The exciting thing is that we brought to the table this opportunity with Save Mart, who's leadership, our veterans in the grocery business. They know the business. They know it well. They know us. They trust us. And the fact is, is we're already launching on a rollout with them to test in their stores for hopefully a bigger rollout as well as with other retailers.

So this is a very important step because if you follow the world of media, retail media networks is a huge conversation right now to the point where you just saw Walmart by Vizio to try and leapfrog into this space in their own stores. And so for us, it's a real opportunity to help the people who aren't of the girth and size of the Walmart to actually be able to play in the same space as they are and get control of that all-important data of what happens within the store.

Well, I think first and foremost, the sustainability of it. As we've wanted to come back to that point, we're very careful about the balance sheet. I think we've proven ourselves that we've really done a great job of focusing on paying down debt to very low levels, and we'll continue to do that. But we feel that launching a dividend at this size is very sustainable for us. Would we love to revisit it in the future? Of course, and we will to see if we can do more, but at this point, we like this as a great sustainable starting point. Tony?

Yes. I mean we're going to continue to grow revenue through all the other services. I mean, in-store year-to-date was up 12% at the end. So that's an example of how we're doing that, and that comes from some of that multi feature relationship that we do with people. Certainly, more rational thinking of the post office would significantly help. And in fact, if you didn't have that type of increase last year, we were feeling really good about sort of that flip point of having to deal with organic decline versus new revenue coming in. And so were we there yet? No, but we are heading that direction. And then with this surprise where people got caught, like I said in the second half, we saw that significant reaction to it.

I think the question is the post office keeps their trajectory, the customers will have to be very smart about how they manage through it with other cost initiatives and trying to pass on to customers. And so how that plays out will be seen, but I feel good about our ability to manage through it. I mean when I saw the postal increase happened last year, we closed a significant 40-year plant of ours that I had a very close relationship with for many years.

I pulled forward closing that because of the postal increase just to make sure we can manage ahead of it and consolidate. And so that's what we mean when we say we treat all costs as variable. If we see something happen on volume in core traditional lines, we know how to react to it. But at the same time, we'll continue to grow all the other offerings, which will impact things like catalog, direct mail, packaging, in-store and agency.

So -- but when you get that onetime surprise, there's a big reaction that typically happens. And I hope even as they go forward, I'd hope to see that moderate, but it certainly puts some of the onus -- a lot of onus on the customer base to be able to figure that out. But the bottom line is, is the catalog works, direct mail works. So it's an important part of the go-forward media mix for people because that media mix landscape is a challenging one. You still have to sell your product.

Yes. I think you have to look at debt levels and leverage in conjunction with the business you're in and your ability to manage challenges. In a growth business, people would say we're underleveraged. In a business like this, I think we're being very prudent because of those unknowns. And I would tell you, we will continue to pay down debt until I see something different. And that's why I like the balance of a sustainable dividend we're doing, being able to still opportunistically look at share repurchases, but I want to see that same question answered. And therefore, we want to continue to keep paying debt down, which is why we changed our guidance on the leverage range. Tony?

And another thing, Barton, if you look back at where we come from in our strategy, when we started playing a consolidator in the core business that -- where the product lines are shrinking, it was about managing good, strong free cash flow by making sure you put the work in the most efficient plants and then squeezing down the platform as volume went down. So it's not just the cash isn't just on a regular basis, isn't just from yearly free cash flow.

It's from expected sales of those assets that you close and sell as the organic decline happened. And so the two of them have resulted in that huge ability to pay down debt, mean we went through a pandemic, and we're still paying down debt. That's because we treated all cost as variable with closed plants as the volume dictated it. And so that ability is there to manage what goes to us. But meanwhile, this flywheel of all the other services and driving other large invoices in print will continue to go.

Okay. Thank you, everyone, for joining today's call. I just want to close by reiterating my confidence in our team and our strategy and in our future as a marketing experience company. Our pipeline for new business remains strong thanks to our unique offering, and we will continue to prioritize growth in verticals and product lines with the greatest expansion opportunities while managing all aspects of our business for long-term strength and stability and shareholder value creation. So with that, we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.