Joey Levin
IAC Inc. (IAC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Thanks, Cory. I'll take the first and Chris will do the second. The biggest thing that we've underestimated, and we've really continually underestimated this is, notwithstanding talking about it a lot, is service professional retention and the progress there has been tremendous. It's the result of a lot of things that we've done to drive satisfaction. First of all, targeting better service professionals with sales, giving them more compelling, committed offers, giving them a chance of success. Some things we've done on the demand side to improve the mix of demand to, to help their win rates, and that retention has continued to move up.

And I think we haven't gotten as good at sort of modeling that upside and we look at it conservatively. But as that comes through, it makes each individual transaction for us, unit economics more profitable because we have more service professionals active in engaging with service requests. Related to that is, things like bad debt. We've been outperforming on bad debt all year because again, we have happier service professionals.

The other thing is the margins in our paid marketing, and we've been expanding the margins in our paid marketing through, I think, a combination of smarter spend and some conversion improvements and obviously that's good for margins. And all year 2023 relative to 2022, we've been much tighter on fixed costs and costs in general. And so the combination of those things all came through on profit. And I think a lot of those trends are -- almost all of what I just said, I think is durable, sustainable for the future. So that's, I think, a good thing for Angi's margins.

Yeah. I'll start, and then I'll turn it to Chris, again. Digital revenue growth was really all the key factors, traffic, meaning volume; price, meaning ad sales rate; premium sales monetization. And that was, I think a big win for the business and a big change in direction that we're pretty proud of. You can see that core sessions, which is over 80% of traffic grew 10% and continued to accelerate. I mean, that's a really nice trend to see.

And the rate, if you just look at revenue per session up nicely, too. Premium sales is about two-thirds of our ad revenue and that was solid really, for the first time since the ad recession started in Q2 of '22. That's a credit to, again, performance of our product, but also the combined sales force just working well together and programmatic was excellent.

We mentioned this in the letter, but we think our CPMs are growing more in the market and that's a combination of, again, technology and performance. And performance marketing, which has been a real source of strength throughout the year is, continues to do well. And this one thing, I want to add on performance marketing is in this area, performance where we're delivering performance marketing.

The product that we're creating is something that our users really want from us. Users really want to hear from food and wine on what is the best air fryer and we deliver that. We deliver that unbiased. We deliver that with real work put into the product. And then that also happens to monetize well because it delivers performance marketing.

But you do that across all the Dotdash Meredith brands and there's a huge opportunity there. And I think we've done a really good job, that was sort of central to the acquisition thesis with Meredith. And I think we've done a real good job executing against that, and it's shown up a lot over the course of 2023.

Sure, Brian. I would say not yet in terms of line of sight, we are making real progress. We're, and I'll also just point out and I think we said this in the letter, monetized transactions are doing better than, than the trend line and service request because we are doing a better job with stuff that monetize as well and matching that better with service professionals. So that service request decline, while steep is not as steep to the business as it appears. But maybe it's helpful to talk about some of the things that we're working on and how those impact the business.

I mentioned before, and I'll keep mentioning just because it's so important to the business, the service professional retention trends. And relatedly, the improvement in monetized transactions per SR. Those things improve our margins on the unit economics of any transaction. And they also are going to start to improve our marketing allowables, which means that we can go out in our paid marketing and buy more, buy better because we have better matching behind it.

The sources of demand beyond paid marketing is really a combination of direct and SEO, and that's going to come from improvements in the product experience. We know what drives homeowner satisfaction and homeowner repeat rate, and that's better matching with service professionals and a better chance of getting a job done well. And so we are starting to drive those underlying metrics.

We shared some of those stats in the letter. And we need that now to show up over time in direct and SEO. It's not going to be sort of an automatic where it just sort of flips on a switch. But it is something that over time with a better experience, you start to see those users coming in, coming in more often, coming in our free channels and referring their friends and family. That's what happens with a better product experience. That does take time for people to realize it.

And the other thing I'll say is, that is what we saw happen in Europe. Europe has grown 20% the last couple of quarters. Europe is -- I don't know that we'll hold on to 20% exactly, but double-digit growth is very real in Europe, has been real for a while and that's a product of, I think, a better customer experience. Then the other thing just tactically is that the comps do get easier starting in Q2.

Sure, I'll start. A lot of those questions are related. So, first we have D/Cipher in about 30% of our direct ad campaigns since we launched it less than a year ago. And I think that's like 150 clients and the folks who are buying it are, as far as we can tell, very happy so far. No sign that people won't be repeating on that. And then, when we've done case studies and we've done a couple, one with a large well known beauty brand. We did a case study with Amazon and in both cases saw a meaningful lift relative to cookie based targeting. So, we have a lot of confidence in D/Cipher's ability to deliver for our customers.

One of the things that will drive D/Cipher adoption is plugging into the pipes and the purchase path of DSPs, Demand Side Platforms, so that advertisers can access D/Cipher's targeting easier or access it in areas where they're already organizing their money and spending their money. So, Amazon is the first example of that but we hope and expect that there will be many more beyond that.

We're obviously targeting the biggest ones first. Amazon is happening already. We're working on something with Google and then, we'll look to really integrate with every ad agency. And this is a thing that's a win-win. It's a win for the advertiser on performance. It's a win for the partner where their data combined with our data delivers better, more spend. And certainly, it's a win for us. If we can build into those pipes, which I think is totally doable, then we've got big opportunities for growth from here.

Yeah. So I'd say, driving free and repeat traffic through better user experiences, obviously that has big impacts on our business on our P&L, and it's something that everybody in the Angi organization is thinking about. Second, and again, I'm -- broken record on this, but we'll keep going the health of the active SP network. That's the retention gains we've seen holding those, growing those. That's making sure pros are active and spending more and getting wins for that spend. That's better targeting within the sales to reach our SP network.

And you can see that we've been delivering that through better -- through smaller sales force better targeted. But again, that all speaks to the health of the active SP network and the other one within, again, that same framework is starting to drive online, self-enroll for SP. And probably the third would be unit economics, which is certainly partially number one and number two in terms of demand and supply, but it's also driving things like conversion. We've had some big wins recently on conversion, but we still, I think, have a long way to go in terms of upside on driving conversion.

We went through a period where conversion across most of our channels leaked a little bit and I think we can get a lot of that back. And so we're very focused on driving conversion in ways that are win-win for users in our platform. And when that comes through, that moves the unit economics. So those are the big three.

In terms of international, one is, well, first you saw Jeff Kipp, who was running the international business, who did a great job getting all of Europe onto a common platform and winning user experience. Now he's in the U.S. and some others from his team are now also helping out in the U.S. We brought the head of performance marketing in Europe, is now running performance marketing in the U.S. And the product and marketing leadership from Europe and the U.S are now much more closely intertwined and interacting.

The other thing and this has been a theme for us for a while is the -- and maybe it was easier to do this in Europe quietly than it is sort of in the U.S. with the public disclosure. But we did a lot to optimize user experience in Europe over short-term monetization for long term benefit. And that took a while to come through, but it has delivered in a meaningful way. And those trade-offs are trade-offs that we've been making in the U.S. and we expect to continue making in the U.S.

And then the last one is, and this is very, very early for us, but the European business is almost entirely online self-enroll as opposed to a -- from sales force and Europe is almost entirely online self-enroll, and U.S. is basically the inverse. So we're working on a lot of the learnings there to see how we can drive more online self-enroll in the U.S. and rely less on phone sales and really focus the phone sales on the opportunities that warrant it.

Okay. So first question, Dan, this is so far a win-win, meaning, when we are matching homeowners with more service professionals, we are driving homeowner satisfaction, meaning that promoter score and we think ultimately repeat rate. And we have been seeing ROI for pros increase. And while we can't measure this exactly, our thesis on this is more jobs are getting done on the platform as opposed to our platform. So while there may be more competition within our platform, meaning, if we were previously matching with less than one and now we're matching with more than one, I think, monetized transactions per SR was 1.27 in the last quarter.

While we're matching with more and there is -- therefore more competition, we think more of that is staying in our platform as opposed to the kind of unknown competition for that same job that was previously happening off platform. So we want to keep driving that number up and we want to keep giving both homeowners and pros a better chance of success on the platform and we can see that play out in the numbers so far. So that balance that you're asking about is, we want to continue pushing it up. We can't push it up forever, but we want to continue pushing it up because we think it's a win for all on the platform.

In terms of verticals, the short answer to your question, I think is, no. But again, the things that we're trying to do are focus on certain user paths and user experiences. So where a user comes in from and then what we do with that user as they move through our ecosystem. And that's kind of how we're organize is thinking about each of those paths into our ecosystem and making sure they deliver a winning consumer experience and a winning pro experience. And a lot of that, as you've seen in our revenue is modifying those experiences to reduce some revenue. But we are, as I say, if we want to talk about a region confident, Europe did that, and Europe has had real success. So that's the path in the U.S.

Yeah. I'll do the last one first before I forget it. This is -- we, you're right. We have been reducing the size of the sales force over the last 18 months and the main thing is driving up productivity by eliminating unproductive calls. I think, we were making a lot of phone calls to a lot of pros that in the end didn't really make economic sense. So we've cut back on that meaningfully. [Technical Difficulty] That is a driver of the retention gains that we've seen, and that's a driver of the efficiency gains that we've seen too. We're also prioritizing prospects more smartly now. So we have data, we built a system last year to deploy against this.

We have data now to rate prospects that we call and make sure that we're focusing the effort of the sales on the best prospects that are most likely to impact our business for the better, meaning most likely to stick with our platform and most likely to get jobs done well for our homeowners. That's also the type of offer we're pushing through our sales force. We're focused on higher commitment offers that we've known this for a long time, but I think there was a period where we deviated from it that we really have to give pros a chance to succeed.

And so that means getting them to a higher commitment so that they can see enough volume through our platform to see the positive ROI. That's a little bit harder in the beginning because you're not going to make as many sales, but it's long term better because those sales are going to be more valuable and those pros have a better chance of succeeding with the platform. I think those are the big ones on the sales force. And now I forgot what the other questions were.

Okay. Go ahead.

Sure. So, in terms of the ads and leads integration, it's a really astute question and top of mind for us right now. You focused on the user side, which is where, as it relates to integration, we've actually made the most progress. And we have some big things rolling out shortly, actually along those lines in terms of, again, talking homeowner side. So, previously the algorithm for how a homeowner would match to historically ads pros and leads pros was complicated and I'd say somewhat illogical.

And we now have improved the algorithm to the point which we're getting ready to roll out now, which we've been testing for, I don't know, six or nine months now, to better distribute and better match. And so a little bit of what we've been doing and seeing on the monetized transactions per SR is a result of what we've been testing there, so that a homeowner comes in and has the best chance of matching with the right pros, independent of whether they were historically ads pros or leads pros. And that is a very big deal for driving the business.

On the pro side, which you didn't ask about, but is also important is I think there's still work to do on the integration. So we still have multiple apps, we still have multiple back-end systems. We're slowly but steadily migrating folks onto common systems, which will reduce our CapEx, reduce our -- or improve our speed of execution. But we still have a lot of work to do on that side of the integration. And it was work that was never done historically that was sort of hiding in the background, and that we are now tackling and is really important to get done, and I think will yield real value in terms of our operating efficiency.

In terms of capital allocation and this shift towards experiences, those do go hand-in-hand, that is an area of focus for us, for sure. We believe this trend is a long-term trend, has been a long-term trend, and will be a trend for a while still to come. And we like the idea of businesses that benefit from that trend. So we've spent a lot of time recently looking in that area and looking deeply in that area, and we'll continue to do so. Nothing imminent on that, but that is certainly a focus of our capital allocation.

And I think if we look at last year, we bought back $165 million of IAC, we bought another $100 million of Turow, we bought $80 million worth of land. And those were, I think, easy transactions in each case, given the data at the time. Now, with steady cash flow and the businesses, I think, in a more stable place, we're starting to look more opportunistically externally. Again, nothing to, nothing immediately on the horizon, but I think we have the position to do that now. Thank you, operator, let's have one last question.

Yeah, Brent. We tried on a couple of things last year to be opportunistic that was more public market than private market. And while the valuations were down a lot to your point, the expected premiums were up a lot, and we couldn't quite get there on those things. The private market, I think is still totally irrational. If you want the real view. I think that these businesses did a phenomenal job, very smartly raising enough capital to be able to wait out markets.

And I think there's still a lot of capital that has been raised to go after private opportunities, and that capital has a fuse on it to be deployed. And so the private markets need not be rational on those things. And so unless something is on the verge of running out of money, I don't think anybody has to face reality on valuations, and therefore it is not, I think, a productive place for opportunities. That is a very broad generalization, and certainly, there will be exceptions to that, if not many exceptions to that. But that's been our experience so far in looking at opportunities there.

Well, I'm glad you raised it. We didn't talk about Vivian at all, but Vivian is a good growing product and business. I mean, it's kind of amazing what the business has done. Continues to grow, continues to grow very healthily in a market that is shrinking dramatically. So -- not many people aren't familiar with Vivian, so let me just explain what they do. They're in matching nurses with jobs. They have focused primarily on the travel nurse category, which turned out to be a very big category, especially during the pandemic.

Still is a very big category. But the growth in that category or that category shrank a lot post pandemic. Still bigger than what it was pre-pandemic but it shrank a lot. Throughout that whole period, Vivian has been growing. And the reason Vivian has been growing is because they have an incredible concentration of the available nurses in the market using the platform, actively using the platform, building profiles on the platform, looking for jobs. And while there's been some near term volatility in that market, with the pandemic and the need for nurses in hospitals and facilities, the supply demand imbalance is still enormous.

Meaning there are many more facilities that need nurses than there are nurses available to do those jobs. And so Vivian, I think, is very well positioned there. Parth Bhakta, who runs that business, who founded and runs that business is a phenomenal entrepreneur and has done a wonderful job growing and building through that. And we think that business has a lot of potential. Where it goes from here, we'll see. But the execution so far has been really tremendous in a fun small business. Not moving needle for IAC. But since you asked about it, we do like that one in the emerging category.

Thank you.

Thank you.