John Rademacher
Option Care Health, Inc. (OPCH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Lisa, good morning. We are continuing to do a lot of work to understand those market dynamics and what's in the pipeline for consideration as we move forward. I think one of the biggest things, Mike and I have talked about, we talked about it on the last quarter call as well is being very disciplined in the approach that we take. We are looking at things both strategically and economically. It must meet those hurdles on both ends as we're looking at that.

We're going to kiss a lot of frogs before we find a prince in that process. And we really pride ourselves in the discipline that we adhere to as we're looking at that. There aren't many books that are out there that we don't get a look at. We have been very active in our corporate development process and the ability to take a look at opportunities, but we apply that discipline and we're going to continue to do that.

As we've talked about before and as we outlined in the third quarter and the press release coming in the fourth quarter, we exhausted the $250 million of the original authorization. We have an additional authorization of $250 million for share repurchase. We will continue to balance that priority of making certain that we're doing everything we can to maximize the value to our shareholders and whether that's through deployment for M&A or whether it's through continued share repurchase as well as from our investments into our business as part of our normal flow of CapEx. We will continue to balance across those dimensions and maximize the value for our shareholders.

Thanks, Lisa.

Thanks, Pito. One question and 15 parts. Appreciate it. Hey, listen, look, at the midpoint, the good thing, and I think you've heard this in some of our public comments. The good thing going into 2024, we don't have the prior year comp challenges, the exit respiratory therapy assets, the exited therapies. So I think the growth algorithm in the story is a lot cleaner and a lot more digestible for all of you to get your hands on.

Naturally, the one thing I would say is, look, growth is going to be a little more muted in the first half just given the fact that we did have some of those Makena and Radicava revenue in the first half of the year. So -- but overall, I think it's just a much -- it's a much cleaner story going forward. So the short answer is, no. No big box cars on the track that you guys have to try to model with and without.

And Pito, the only thing I'd add is, look, specific on your question around any positives, negatives. Look, there's always going to be some incremental therapies that we're looking at. I wouldn't say there's anything in the hopper that I would say is a major needle mover in the first year. And on the negative side, look, and we've had this conversation with folks repeatedly, this is a dynamic marketplace and there's always therapies that will be going subcutaneous that will have different delivery methodologies. And that's all something that we're never surprised by that and that's fully accommodated in our guidance range.

Yes. We always -- they're vigorous competitors and so we take all of that full view as we're approaching the marketplace. And one of the things that we bring to all of the payer community is that consistency of care. We've talked before about our ability on a national basis to leverage our platform to provide that high consistency and high quality care, whether you're a patient in Portland, Oregon or Portland, Maine. And so that ability that we have to provide consistent high quality care across the country is something that they seek.

Our ability to be in network with those payers is something that we've worked very hard to make certain that we achieve that we're focusing around key areas of delivering high quality care of providing access to their members, of driving high member satisfaction or patient satisfaction when we have the opportunity to serve their members. And so we will never discount the competitive dynamics that we operate within.

But on the other side of that, we provide a very valuable service, especially when you look at the breadth of the product that we can provide on both the acute and the chronic portfolio. And we will continue to foster those relationships and be a partner of choice for the plans as they're trying to find place for their members to receive high quality care.

Thanks, Pito.

Yes, and the only other thing I will add Brian is on the infusion suite side, continued really great progress by the team of opening the new facility. As we've talked before, we do a thorough analysis when we're looking at the market, we look at density maps of patient populations and we're really selective in the way that we're looking at where we place them and how to utilize them. In the quarter about 30% of our nursing interventions were done in one of our infusion suites with that growing population of chronic patients, as well as our ability to serve some of the acute patients that may need a dressing change or a lab draw or those types of things, we're going to continue to maximize that as we move forward.

So as we built out the network, we're getting closer and closer to having the fulsomeness that we want there. We'll continue to make investments on that. But I would set the stage that that may start to slow as we're then utilizing and optimizing the infrastructure that we have. We added over or almost a 100 chairs over the year. And so now the trick for the team is really to focus around the execution of utilizing capacity that we have there as we continue to build out probably at a bit slower pace than what you've seen over '22 and '23.

Thanks, Brian.

Yes, Matt, it's John. On the Naven standpoint, again continued really great progress from that platform standpoint. We've made investments into the technology that continues into 2024. We're really excited about some of the efficiencies and effectiveness that that can help to maximize the capacity and the utilization of that workforce to support not only Option Care Health, but other market participants from that platform.

That has been part of our overall growth story, is the ability to have access to highly qualified nurses to be able to oversee the infusions and oversee the care for our patients is something that enables us to continue to grow. So a lot of focus, not only internally on Option Care Health, around recruiting our team members every day of recruiting and creating a great place to work. But then also the investments that we're making in Naven will allow us to have that additional capacity and that additional growth driver for us as we move ahead.

A question that has been asked before is from a turnover and from that standpoint, just across the board, we have seen a significant improvement really from '22 as we exited '23 around our retention rates and reducing of overall turnover. We do a lot of work to focus around the employee value proposition and we have a really great dedicated team of HR professionals that are thinking about what are the total rewards and what are the type of programs to not only invest in our people to help them develop and grow in their roles and responsibilities, but also the culture and those aspects that make it a great place to work.

So as I announced in my prepared remarks, really excited about some of the designations that we were awarded in 2023 and we know that as much as we invest into our technology, we are a people business. We need highly skilled clinicians and we need highly skilled professionals across our organization and that will continue to be a top priority for me and the leadership team to make certain we're doing everything we can to be an employer of choice.

Yes. The only other thing I'd add to that, Dave, is certainly along the questions that you asked for the infusion suite and utilization and helping to drive that. We also focus a lot around just the productivity of our entire labor force, right? So we're always working through and looking for ability to drive that productivity and efficiency across the platform. And we talked before about some of the deployment of the technology, both in the prepared remarks, but in previous comments around repetitive process automation and efficiencies to really help our teams take some of the more routine and road aspects out and drive higher productivity and efficiency across the platform.

And we'll continue to focus on that in '24. We believe there's still opportunities for us to drive those operating efficiencies. And with every deployment of technology or the releases that our technology team is putting into the environment, we're looking for ways to maximize the licensure of our workforce of the capabilities and capacity of the workforce. And we'll continue to do that unrelenting because we know there's opportunities to take cost and waste out of the process.

Yes, Dave. So the conversations that we've had and continue to have with the payer community around site of care, I would say, there's a broad range of those conversations. We are seeing certain circumstances where some of the payers are directing with a little bit more heavy hand, the utilization of these lower sites or lower costs of sites of care and putting that into the way that they're managing their membership. I wouldn't say that's widespread across the entire industry, but we are starting to see that uptake in local pockets or some of the more regional players on that. So, we're trying to stay ahead of that.

We are in active conversations and we believe that with some of the focus around medical loss ratios, especially in some of the capitated programs that the payers are dealing with, we offer a really valuable solution to them of offering that high-quality care at a more appropriate cost than some of the other settings, in which the patients could receive it. So, we expect that that will be an impetus for us to have those conversations and we're going to continue to talk about the values and the virtue that we can bring to them through that process.

The second part of your question, we are doing that today, Dave, where again, we take a look at the portfolio within the infusion suite itself, where there are either products that may not be infused, but they may be injectables that require a healthcare professional oversight. We are doing those in the infusion suite. One of the products that I called out, the Cabenuva, is a product that really fits within that category that requires that HCP to provide that oversight. And we'll continue to look for those opportunities and continue to partner upstream with biopharma as being a channel partner for those types of products, as well as continue to discuss the cost value of being able to provide care to their members, to the payers and why they should help to choose that as a site of care as they're moving forward.

Yes. It's incorporated in the guidance that we provided. I mean, there's some positive aspects of that. But nothing that I'd say is a major needle mover on that or disproportionate. But we're going to continue to look for every opportunity we can to, as Mike said, build the chairs and utilize the capacity that we have in an efficient and effective way.

Thank you, Joanna.

Yes. So, in prepared remarks, I called out some of the products that we had launched. We had talked about VYJUVEK in previous earnings calls [indiscernible] as well as Cabenuva. I wouldn't say these are outsized growth proportion on it. We feel privileged to have the partnerships that we do with an organization like Crystal and helping to be a channel partner to serve their patients or patients that require their gene therapy.

Across the entire fleet on the chronic side, again, we continue to have a very diverse and a broad portfolio of products there. And as Mike just called out, they don't move in tandem. We have things that are moving up. We have things that are moving down. It's a dynamic environment there. What we really appreciate and what we continue to hear and work with the biopharma partners is around the platform that we're able to provide.

That high-quality clinical knowledge and know-how, the logistics and the national platform in which we can serve patients and that ability now to have an expanded capability set to not only serve patients in the home, but in one of the infusion suites, all puts us in a really strong position to continue to work with biopharma to be a channel partner and to be able to continue to expand our list of limited distribution drugs or expand the list of products that we have within our portfolio. So, the focus of our business development team is around those relationships of continuing to focus around maximizing the value of our platform. And we'll continue to look for those opportunities with new and emerging products.

As the second part of your question, we're actively managing and monitoring what is that pipeline of new products. What of those products have the characteristics that fit well within our platform, and are active in conversations with those biopharma partners around the role that we can play in helping to support the launch of those products, the support of existing products and the ability to serve the patients in one of the settings that our clinical team is well equipped to serve.

Thanks, Jamie.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you all for joining us this morning and participating on our call. As we outlined, 2023 was a very productive year and our team continued to execute at a very high level. We understand the important role that we play in delivering care to our patients and their families, and we look forward to serving even more patients in 2024. Take care and have a great day. Thank you.


