John Martins
Cross Country Healthcare, Inc. (CCRN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Kevin, this is John. I would just add, you’re getting a sense now that we’re getting back to that cyclical nature of this industry, back to pre-COVID, where you’re going to see traditionally a little bit of a dip in Q2 from Q1. But I do think with the recent wins that we’ve had on the MSP and VMS side, with the diversification of our businesses, as Bill mentioned, and the growth, that there’s an opportunity to buck that trend in Q2.

Yes, I think the way to look at it is, as we start looking at the macro data, right, and looking at, you have census and hospitals are still remaining high and increasing. Looking at the Affordable Care Act and seeing that, look we had in 2010, there was 16% of the nation didn’t have insurance and now it’s 7%, 7.2%. I think the number is, you still have this fundamental shortage of nurses, and we’re seeing that demand. We think demand will start to pick up at one point in the year.

Now, I wish I had that crystal ball saying, does demand from a market standpoint start picking up sometime in the second quarter? Is it the end of the second quarter? Is it in the third quarter? It’s hard to forecast when that happens, but what we’re confident about is how we’re executing on a business, winning more deals.

And so part to answer your question is part of it is, yes, we think we can outperform the market based upon the deals we’re winning, based how we’re really looking at executing above the market in many of our segments. And then add that to hopefully some market tailwinds and then we’re in a great place. But we do think that we can buck the market trend just on our wins, on our MSPs and VMS.

Yes, it’s a mix of VMS, vendor neutral and MSPs. The vendor neutral side, we’re going to capture somewhere in that 30% range could be a little bit higher. And on the MSP side, you’re going to capture – traditionally, we capture somewhere between 65% and 70%.

Brian, this is John. Yes. The market is going to do what the market’s going to do right now. And so that does put margin pressures on us as there is a – as demand softens, right, more people are going after the same jobs. So it does create some bit of a margin pressure. And so, of course, that’s how we want to balance, making sure that we’re competitive in the market, but we also want to maintain our profitability. And so that’s when we talk about the balance, and we think we’re doing a good job right now at that. And I think that’s evidenced by the wins we’ve had, and we’re not – and it’s not – we are definitely not buying the business we’re working on good margins. It’s just as an industry, the margins are moving down as a whole.

Well, we do love the space of Locums and of course, M&A is definitely a part of where we look at our strategy. But we’ve invested quite a bit of money over the past couple of years to build the team where it is today. So when you look at contribution income, it’s not – it’s a little lower than we want it to be right now, because that’s because we’ve made the investments.

So we feel that there’s lots of – we have lots of capacity and ability to ramp this business currently and improve that bottom line margin and increase the business. But when we look at we’re approaching a $200 million company in Locums, for us to get to that next level of becoming $0.5 billion, I think that’s going to require acquisitions to get to that level.

Yes. Let’s take a broad – because every client is a little bit different, but let’s take a broad view. A broad view is, clients for the most part, what we’re seeing, they’re content, I say, is a good way to put it with where their labor spend is right now the number of travelers they have out there. They’re looking for ways for us to continue to help them save money. But sometimes it’s not through travel.

It’s through maybe helping them with their core staff. It’s helping them with their internal resource pool, so we can maximize their internal people, which will, again, take a little bit off of the travel side. But in general, on the broad stroke, I think what we’re seeing from our clients is they’re fairly content with the number of travelers they have now.

I think everyone would like to save a little bit of money a little bit more, but they also come to the realization that you could only go so far down and that if you want to make sure you have the number of beds open, if you want to make sure you have the right patient to nurse ratio, if you want to make sure that you have the nurses at the bedside taking care of the patients in the community, you need a certain level of travelers. And I think we’ve kind of hit that point. And I think that’s where when we look at saying, when do we see the bottom of this? And we’re saying, hey, again, not having that crystal ball, which I wish I had, it’s coming sometime in from now to the back half of the year and then we start seeing that sequential growth. So I think we’re almost there at that point.

What I’d say, Trevor, is that I think when you look at, you said, how we compare to our competitors, I think when you look at the growth we had over the last several years in 2021 and 2022. In 2021, staffing industry analysts is kind of how we kind of judge the market, right? And our growth, the market grew at 105% and we grew at 100%. And you got to remember we were going through our digital transformation. We were really reforming the company and really creating a new roadmap and vision for the company.

And that happened in 2019 and 2020. And then in 2021 we go from nearly beating up market. And then in 2022, the market grew at 45% and Cross Country grew at 67%, clearly beating the market. And if you actually look in at the travel nurse and travel allied in particular, those numbers are actually a higher percentage of growth in 2022. And in 2023, we’re not going to be able to see what staffing industry analyst has, where the market has come down to, because they report that in sometime in the summer. And when we do see that, I’m confident that we’re going to show that we once again have outpaced the market even as the market’s going down. So I think that’s one area.

And the other area, when you look to our competitors sometimes, we grew so fast in the pandemic in nurse and allied, and they may have been a little bit more diversified. So you’re going to see a little bit of difference in that. And the other thing is, I think when you look at those numbers, you have to also look at acquisitions that happen in that time period to make sure you’re comparing apples to apples.

This is, I think, a buyer’s market right now. We’re seeing multiples come down. There’s companies that don’t want to go through another cycle of this downturn that we’ve seen in the market over the last 18 months. And so I think it’s a buyer’s market right now. And there’s opportunities for us. And as we’ve said before, and I said just earlier, we really love the locum [ph] space and there’s opportunities in the locum space. The allied space is something that we like.

And our education business, which is just doing phenomenally as on fire. We love that space, and it’s a very fragmented space, but we’ve done a great job of growing that into a fairly sizable business. It’s nearly $100 million business. And I think there’s lots of opportunity in the education space to continue to roll up companies into that space and gain some scale in the education space.

Yes, that’s correct. I think I can kind of give you a little bit of flavor on where we’re at on that spend under management. When you look at our spend under management, and that includes the Intellify business. Pre-COVID, we were somewhere between $400 million to $500 million and as of December, we were at somewhere between $800 million to $900 million. And now, of course, their bill rates have gone up, but bill rates are up. Bill, what would you say, bill rates are up from that period 15%?

25%. Okay, so that period. So you have a 25%, 30% increase in that. But we clearly have nearly double the amount of spend under management. So we are gaining, and that’s why we think we’re gaining. We feel confident we’re gaining market share, because of those numbers. Now, look, volumes are definitely up a little bit, too, and the market size is a little bit bigger. But on the other side, demand, as Bill called out earlier on the call, demand is actually lower than pre-COVID right now. And so as we get – and that the spend of between $800 million to $900 million doesn’t account to the ramp ups of most of that $200 million plus spend under management that is still being ramped up now.

Yes, I think that’s fair to say, Bill. This is John. Tobey, I think that’s right where the companies that are relying on third party are definitely going to feel a bigger decline in their businesses. And as companies like Cross Country win more market share, it’s important to know like our partner networks and it’s interesting. I mentioned earlier, we have a capture rate of 65% to 70%. And why that’s important to us is we could – actually kind of goes to Trevor’s question. We could actually increase our capture rate even higher and we actually would offset maybe the decline in our revenue, but that’s not our long-term plan.

One of the things that’s really important to understand about why our capture rate is between that 65% and 70% is first and foremost, when we have these clients that we’re accountable to, we want to make sure that we’re providing the highest quality clinician to the bedside to serve the patients and the communities. And unfortunately, if you want to increase that capture rate higher than something like 65% or 70%, you’d actually have to hold orders potentially, and that could affect that patient delivery. And that’s something we would never do at Cross Country.

And then secondly, and I’ve called this out on calls before, is we want to make sure that we have excess capacity to win deals. And I think over the last six months, we’ve certainly proven that in the wins that we’ve had, is because we have the excess capacity, we’re able to win these deals. And then the third part of why we want to keep that capture rate in that 65% to 70% is we want to make sure we’re allowing our partner networks and these sub vendors, and these are the companies that rely on the third party business. We want them to think Cross Country as their first choice. And we want to make sure that as we’re starting to win more deals, they’re there to support our deals so that we’re keeping our clients very satisfied and happy.

Yes, we have seen – over the years, I think from 2009, I’ve been in the industry way too long. Periodically, fees go up, and as cost pressures happen in competitive bids. What happens is we’re seeing a lot more companies go out there and offer more services and offerings to clients to win their business. And those costs have to come and be passed along to the sub vendors. So we are seeing an increase across the industry of those fees going up. But like I said, I started this industry in 2005, and every several years you see this industry grow up. I think when I first started, the average rate, I think the average fee was, I think 3% in 2004.

And so over time, inflation, you have more services going to clients, they end up costing fees. And when you get, as I mentioned, when you’re getting more and more competitors and you’re seeing more and more companies trying to get into the MSP and VMS space, they’re all offering more and more, what’s the right word? Services and offerings that make it more competitive, that increase the cost of running and managing an MSP and VMS service.

Yes. And it’s interesting on that is that a lot of times it’s not because of we don’t want to put it there. It’s really competing priorities at hospitals. And so as Bill mentioned, we would have been there earlier. It’s just matching up sometimes with the hospital and getting them set. But right now we have the roadmap to get it pretty complete pretty soon. So as Bill said, before the end of the first half, we should be at 100%.

Yes, I think, look, that’s certainly our goal. And I made the remark in my prepared remarks that we’re targeting to exit the year with SG&A at 15% on revenue. So if you look and see where does that, where do you think gross profit or gross margin can be by the fourth quarter, you can start to back into what that could look like. But yes, something in that high single would be our goal to exit the year.

Sure.

Hey, Bill. Yes. Our cycle was heavier in 2022 and 2023, where we had more contracts up. And I think as we’ve all called out, that was because of COVID that people kind of held back and waited to go out to market after COVID, or what was perceived after COVID in 2022. So we saw a higher number of our clients go out in 2022 and 2023. This year, it’s definitely lower and less than last year. I think we’re going to see more of the typical cycle of somewhere between 20%, 25% go out this year.

And it varies. Right. There’s ones that are competitive bids that, we have that our competitors are going in and getting involved in a competitive bake off, if you will. And there’s other ones that are renewals that are evergreen contracts that come up every year that were – that the client’s really not looking to go out to market. And those are the renewals that just come automatically. And of course, you still have to make sure you’re doing a great job with the client, giving the service that they need and filling there and providing the needs that they have and filling the needs they have. But there’s a couple of different categories. But to answer your question, this will be a lower year in the total number of renewals we have in the last two years.

And I think it’s important to note on that India office that we have overseas. That office has been around Cross Country for 18 years. It’s a long standing company that we’ve had there. Great partnership, great leadership there. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, I was just there two weeks ago to do our company wide kickoff from India to all of our offices. And I can tell you the talent that we have over there is just incredible. And they’re ready to take on more and more of these services coming over. And we’re really excited about this great culture that we’ve created between the U.S. and India and truly this real partnership we have with our organization over there.

Thank you. In closing, I’d like to thank everyone for participating in today’s call. And we look forward to updating you on the progress of the company on our next call in May.