John Ciulla
Webster Financial Corporation (WBS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mark.

We did, Mark. I would say, and we've been talking about this, the kind of progressive decline in the market values. I think mid 80s, but the loan sales were smaller this quarter, and they weren't all office. So we did do some balance sheet repositioning, but not as robustly and not in bulk like we had in the last few quarters. As I noted, the $120 million decline in the quarter in office this quarter, interestingly, was primarily from payoffs and refinances at market and par. So we didn't do a lot of office sales this quarter.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Matt, so it's interesting, right? And obviously, we hit on it in the beginning. We had back-ended loan originations in the quarter, which hurt NII growth. And we also, if you look year over year, right, we have $650 million less in mortgage warehouse because we've exited that business. The other dynamic there is that the mix of business was high quality non-office commercial real estate fund banking, which has almost a full point of lower weighted average risk rating. But on the other side, also lower yielding. So we didn't see as much origination, I would say, given market conditions and given credit appetite in sponsor and specialty. And so a little bit of the mutation, if you will, in the expansion of yield had to do with the loan mix in the fourth quarter as much as anything.

Hey, Chris.

Yeah, that's exactly right. Because I think we clearly have in our plan and expectations, if there are no other productive uses of organic capital, that we will look at dividend and repurchases in the latter half of the year, maybe the second, third, and fourth quarter over time. We generally repurchase shares to offset grants to employees as well. We'll continue to do that. So it's still part of our game plan. We're just being, I think, a little bit cautious and prudent as we look at our capital levels through the Ametros closing. We also potentially have opportunities in balance sheet and securities repositioning that could go into that bucket of decisions as well. But we anticipate returning capital to shareholders over the second half of the year.

Thanks, Chris.

Good morning, Casey.

interLINK.

And then the fees, he asked.

And, Casey, to put a finer point, on expenses, right, it looks like a high headline number. But to Glenn's point, half of the increase in the guided expenses really are related to Ametros acquisition. Those expenses as Glenn said, part of it is OpEx, and part of it is the amortization of intangibles. And then you have performance-based compensation year-over-year, an increase in expectation, which most of the industry is seeing. If you then look down, the remaining increase in core expenses is about 4%, slightly under, and that has some investment in teams and people and projects and technology. Even if we execute all of those things with our range of expectations, we're still going to be in the low to mid 40% from an efficiency perspective, which I think is unique for us, giving us the opportunity to be on offense and to continue to invest into the kind of revenue tailwinds and the rate decline. So -- and obviously, we have opportunities should the tailwinds with respect to NII or fees get higher than we expect to curtail on the timing on some of those investments and lower expenses if we need to. So I feel pretty good about where we are, ending up at those financial metrics we've promised over time, given the guidance we've given. And I think the headline number on the expenses really needs to kind of peel it back and realize that half of it is not organic, it's the acquisition and the rest of it is kind of performance-based and investment in new revenue opportunities.

Good morning.

Sure. We're not really seeing any degradation in non -- I'll start with your last question, in non-office CRE, and we seem to be managing maturities well, and sponsors and owners seem to be connected to their loans. So I wouldn't note any significant deterioration there at all. I think the way I characterize the quarter from a credit perspective as being relatively unchanged from prior quarter is pretty accurate. We had a few loans in C&I go into classifieds. We also reduced our non-performers modestly. So we kind of had some offsets there. And the overall credit profile remained stable. We're not seeing any -- and again, I haven't dealt with you a lot, but many know that I was the Chief Credit Risk Officer during the Great Recession and thereafter. I have been surprised, like many of us, that there's been no capitulation in certain areas, right, and we're still seeing significant resiliency in the consumer. We have no issues at all in our home equity and mortgage loans with respect to delinquencies or issues. And in C&I, people have been pretty resilient, and we're seeing some level of investment. The areas that we still focus on, I would say, in sponsor and specialty, healthcare services, those are sort of secular pressures, contracting, which generally is cyclical. But we've done a good job proactively, either avoiding certain sectors and certain opportunities or being able to remediate things quickly. And then obviously, you've seen us reduce our office exposure, jeez, by almost $700 million over the course of the last five or six quarters without material loss. So I think the overall net risk rating migration in the portfolio continues to be modestly to the downside. But with proactive risk management and working through things, we're not seeing any material areas of stress in the portfolio. Even if you look at the charge-off numbers, I think for the year we ended up at about 22 basis points. Interestingly, that's kind of the same as the five year average pre-pandemic. So really that gives you a perspective of where credit performance is now, even to pre-pandemic levels. And within that 22 basis points, 10 basis points of the 22 basis points is related to proactive balance sheet management and loan sales. So we really haven't seen kind of the credit wave that I think people have been expecting for time. But we continue to monitor pretty aggressively.

Hey, Daniel.

Thanks, Dan.

Hey, Steve.

Yeah. And Steve, I think you have the dynamic right. We get some opportunity in the near term, a little more pressure in the long term this year when they start cutting. But as Glenn said, we feel pretty confident, given the moves we've made, that we can keep that NIM relatively stable at a rate better than most of the industry.

Sure. I don't. So I'll answer the question kind of short term, and it's every bit as important to us as it's been. Obviously, it's from a pure financial contribution perspective, given the size of the organization now, it's a slightly smaller contributor, but nonetheless hugely important to us from a revenue and fee and obviously low cost, long duration deposit perspective. I can clarify on this call because I knew there was a lot of activity and speculation after our last phone call, I answered that question the way I had answered it every single quarter when asked. What happened, Steve, was that no one asked the question for about six quarters. So people thought, because I gave an answer, that there was a new perspective. No, we are not a seller of HSA. We are a true believer, particularly with the acquisition of Ametros, in our ability -- unique ability as a bank to have diversified funding sources that grow fees at a good clip. And I think we'll be able to, and not included in our forecast, as I mentioned, are opportunities for us to have cross synergies in some of these really unique businesses, even throw interLINK in there as well. But I also do say very carefully every time that we're a steward of our shareholders' capital. And so we continually have to evaluate all of our business lines, how we can maximize economic profit in those business lines, and whether or not that happens as a wholly owned activity or as a joint ventured activity or as a sold activity. And so our premise is we're not a seller of HSA, but obviously, we're always doing diligence to make sure that we're not missing an opportunity to achieve the best value for our shareholders as we allocate capital and make those decisions.

Yeah, that's a loaded question. I mean, I think that -- look, I think we have a ways to go before we hit the threshold. As you can imagine, we're spending a lot of time looking at our three and five year plans, making sure that we're prepared from a compliance and risk management perspective, making sure we understand the full impact of the rules, if they ultimately are enacted on capital, on liquidity, on the makeup of our balance sheet. Steve, I think we've got enough flexibility. In the asset classes that we grow, we can make economic moves to divest or to slow growth quickly. And we're not up against the gun with respect to looking at this over the next 18 to 24 months. I think we still have some running room to service customers, to take care of our existing clients, and continue to plan for the eventuality of $100 billion. And so we don't think that it's time to pull back and slow growth now. But every move we're making and everything we're doing strategically, we obviously have an eye toward what's that mean when you overlay the $100 billion requirements. So I know that may not be a satisfying answer, but know that we're thinking about it. We're thinking about what it means for our future view on M&A. Do you want to crawl over $100 billion? Do you want to avoid it? Do you want to jump well over $100 billion? Those are the discussions we're having. And we're positioning ourselves, quite frankly, because of the uncertainty in the market, to be able to take advantage of any one of those strategies if it's the right strategy at the time. So I don't think we're putting ourselves in a trapped position by continuing to use our differentiated funding base and origination channels to continue to grow at this pace. I don't think we are.

Thanks, Steve.

Good morning.

Yeah. Remember, it's off a pretty small base, and we've got historic data, and there's a great management team there and a great team, and they've demonstrated the ability to do it. As I noted, there really is a pretty strong pipeline. You can see the natural growth, it's kind of like HSA. It gets very predictable, and it's also like HSA a little bit. And they have great relationships with both their account holders and the insurance companies that they do work for. And so we've got pretty good line of sight to growth off a relatively small base going forward. And you've got kind of -- a bunch of that as contractor future payments. So you kind of know what's coming in. So I think we feel pretty comfortable that that's kind of a reasonable range. Where do we see the upside? I mentioned it in my comments. We don't factor in right now any other expansion into different product sets with similar characteristics. And I know the CEO there who's really talented, has good line of sight with capital investment behind him to be able to expand the markets that they serve. We don't factor in any synergies between account holders in some of our other businesses and cross-sell opportunities. So the upside is really our opportunity to figure out new ways for them to do it. But in terms of our baseline 25% CAGR growth, we feel very confident that that's kind of a very predictable strong line of sight to that growth over the next five years.

Yeah, there's no story there at all. It's just a natural private equity investment, and it was time for them to divest. We knew the company through our relationships with sponsor and specialty, and it wasn't an auction process. We were able to convince the team and the sellers that we were the right buyer and it was a very smooth transaction. So there's no story there and that's it.

Yeah.

Yeah. Most of the originations were driven in the quarter by core C&I, but in particular, fund banking, very low risk, and lower yielding, quite frankly. But obviously, we believe still economically profitable loan growth, along with some high quality multifamily and some public sector finance, which is kind of our national government banking. Again, all of those assets, higher quality than the overall portfolio on a risk-rated basis, slightly lower yielding, which was why we gave the answer to the question earlier about lower-than-expected yield expansion in the quarter. And again, particularly in the fund banking side, much of that closed by year end, and so we were kind of working through our pipeline. And that's why things closed in December as opposed to closing earlier in the quarter.

No. Just -- yeah, just timing and it happens quarter-to-quarter.

No. We are completely aligned and we'll continue to be. And obviously, I'll continue to seek out his counsel even after he's left the organization. But no, there's no pivot at all. We spent a lot of time, the entire team, management team and Board, making sure that kind of, we knew what the North Star was and what we were trying to build. And we're still on that journey. We still have opportunities. We think we've got good line of sight to continue to deliver a 20%-ish ROATC, a 1.4%-ish ROA, and a leading efficiency ratio to give us flexibility to grow. And I think all the things we're doing are the things we thought we would do. Obviously, the environment has been a little bit volatile over time. But there'll be no pivot in culture, strategy or other things. You'll see us continue to try and execute at a high level.

Yeah, as you know, on the cash management card, FX, and some of the other ancillary businesses, we do have built in, as Glenn mentioned, into our increase in fees, relatively good double-digit growth in those off of a relatively small base compared to our NII. And the truth of the matter is that those activities are not going to materially change the outcome of our steady growth, right. So that's -- we're working on those things. We've already rolled out new capabilities for our clients. Things like Ametros move the needle a little bit in terms of Glenn talked to you about the contribution and expected fees in the year. And so that's going to be good. We keep looking at interesting opportunities and not built into our forecast and definitely too early to talk about, but opportunities around capital markets, around syndicating, around securitization. Like are there opportunities, given our strong origination capabilities to generate fee income and further have other options to manage the balance sheet? But those are things we think about to drive fee income over the long term. But nothing in our plans right now and nothing that I would be comfortable giving you guidance on.

Yeah, I think Glenn might comment, but I think that's sort of built into our overall net expense view. Some of the stuff is a little stickier than others. We've made progress on consolidation of the call centers. We have opportunity there. We still need to decommission some old non-core technology that in the transition stays. But I would say it's an offset to the investments that we think we're going to make in future technology. And so I don't know if you have an estimate for what you think the full run rate of some of those opportunities are.

Thank you.

Hey, good morning, and welcome.

Yeah, I would agree with Glenn. And I think -- I hope we're answering the question you're asking, which is the first 100 points down. I don't think it changes necessarily, behaviors by customers and depositors or kind of overall bank, non-bank deposit flows.

Hey, Laurie.

Closing date.

And pro forma intangibles.

End of January is the estimate, plus or minus.

I'm not sure. Say that again.

We are not complete on that. I'm estimating that right now.

Let me see if I can get that for you, Laurie. It was -- they weren't meaningful in this quarter. I think charges, including all the proactive note sales, were roughly in the $25 million to $30 million range for the entire year. And that includes all of, as I said, the proactive note sales. So not sort of fully matured charge-offs. I mean, they're losses nonetheless. And I think it wasn't particularly a meaningful contribution to this quarter's charge-offs. I'm still looking for the number, I apologize. But as I said, we're getting to the point where that book, we feel pretty confident around kind of what's left and the credit support we have underlying it. And we feel really good about how aggressively we've brought down that exposure.

Hey, Timur.

Yeah, it’s obviously -- they're the market leader, but there's a huge untapped, I think it's $12 billion in total claims in their space right now. So there's a lot of running room. It's early days, and their value proposition, I think, is starting to be realized by more of the insurers and more account holders in the industry. So it's very low penetrated from a professional administrator perspective, which is one of the things that we think is so exciting about the business.

Again, given the total addressable market and the good penetration that these guys have with respect to customer base, I think a lot of it is contractual. And so I think at least in terms of our projections now, we don't see any risk from cannibalization from competitors. And it's our opportunity, I think, to be a first mover across the industry and to continue to expand.

Yeah, very little exposure to pre-2019, I would say about, let's see, after the -- more than half of our loans are booked after the regulation. Multifamily $1.35 billion in 4Q of rent-regulated multifamily, down from the third Q level of $1.4 billion. This is an interesting stat for you, that the portfolio is obviously diversified, but the average commitment is $3.2 million. We only have seven loans with exposures over $15 million there. So a very granular and non-chunky portfolio with no tall trees, which I think makes us feel pretty comfortable. And criticized classified loans are kind of below the overall credit stats of the rest of the commercial book. And so there's only one delinquent loan right now in that $1.35 billion. So we don't see any credit story there right now.

Thank you. Really appreciate everybody staying on the call and your engagement with the company. Have a great day.
