John Christmann
APA Corporation (APA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Doug, I'll first start off and say the ESPs was kind of the second factor and kind of piled on. The underlying factor is just the ratio of the workover rigs to the drilling rigs. And these aren't just normal pulling units. These are good sized workover rigs. And if you go back historically, we've usually run close to 2x to 3x, the workover rigs to the drilling rig count. As we've said, we use these workover rigs to complete new wells, to perform the recompletions and do the workovers. And our ratio really has been just slightly over 1.

And so we're ratcheting back, kind of gearing down the rig program. We're still going to run 13 to 15 rigs. So it's not a major reduction, but we want to get the workover count work down. We've got a very large asset base there, and it's important that we're getting to the key workovers and the recompletions that underpin those decline rates. And so there's no reason to keep drilling more wells quicker and piling more ducks into the system right now, it's just not the most efficient use of capital given the workover rigs.

On the sub pumps, you're exactly right. These were the high rate sub pumps that we needed as we brought on 9 big wells last year. There was a problem with the manufacturing. We've identified that, and we are in the process of fixing that. So that will get straightened out and is being addressed right now. But it's really more a function of trying to balance the workover rigs and the number of wells we're drilling with the drilling rigs on a go-forward basis to kind of get into equilibrium to make sure we're investing the capital wisely and efficiently and getting the most out of it.

So once we work that down, I mean, I'd say today, we estimate we've got close to 13,000 barrels a day that's offline that needs to be worked over. We usually run around 5,000 barrels a day. So there's about 8,000 barrels a day there we need to work down and it's going to take a number of workovers and projects to do that. So we're on it. I think once we get into a good equilibrium point, then we can revisit the rig count at a later date.

We're just going to guide to flat adjusted production, net production for Egypt for now.

Yes. I mean I'll stop in, just a few things on Alaska, Doug, and then I'll hand it over to Tracey. But one, it's a large, underexplored area. As we put in the supplement today, it's 275,000 acres on state lands. It is highly prospective for what's become a proven play. And Tracey can get into some details into that in a minute. We are planning to drill 3 wells this winter. We are very close to spudding the first well. So we're not halfway through any of them at this point, but it's going to get fun here pretty fast. So Tracey, I'll let you talk a little bit more about the program.

And Doug, 1 more thing on your first question. We're limited in Egypt with the number of workover rigs that are in-country. So you're not in the U.S. where you can just go pick up workover rigs and pull in units. We're dealing with a constrained resource there. And so we have to kind of gear around that at this point.

Yes.

Yes, Neal, the '23 program really performed in line as expected. So the new wells were good. We even had some -- what I'll call some really high success in the Barnes area, where we had the potential to bring on some high-impact wells. We just ran into some challenges on the ESP. So program has been good and the new well program is in line. So it's all about getting the balance together and just ratcheting back a little bit until we can go faster at a later date.

Yes. I mean as we sit today, we're limited on the company, the company interaction we have. We -- both companies have integration teams that are set up on the transition side, and so we're working through that. And as you clear certain hurdles, we can start to interact more. But at this point, we're working towards having a very smooth closing and transition. And we really believe that should take place sometime in the second quarter.

When you look at our operations, we'll be running 6 rigs Permian this year. They're running 5, and we'll start out with those 11 rigs, and we're very comfortable running those 11 rigs and really look forward to being able to integrate the Callon assets into our workflow and our schedules and so forth, but that's going to take a little bit of time. So as you know, we've been delivering outstanding results. And we're anxious to jump on their Delaware assets in addition to what we're doing in the Delaware and our Midland Basin.

Yes, Bob, you're good to go.

Yes, Bob, as you know, you're limited on the winter window, and we are getting ready to get started with the first well. And we'll actually have 3 rigs drilling kind of simultaneously pretty quickly. So we do anticipate being able to get 3 wells down prior to breakup.

Yes. You've got -- I mean, Tracey can say a few words, but you've got good seismic control. And they're fully supported. So we feel good about them, but it is exploration.

Charles, I'd just say, first of all, short term, there's not any real options. And obviously, the -- there are several avenues and things we've explored and been exploring. But getting equipment into a country like Egypt takes time. And so at this point, we don't have any real near-term options, and it's something we'd be happy to talk about later if we find a solution. But right now, we're just -- we're limited to the 20 workover rigs that we currently have.

Yes. First of all, Paul, thanks for the question. I'll just say we're in the exploration phase at this point. So we've done a lot of scoping. It's onshore, it's state land, so things can move a little quicker than federal there. You're close to big pipeline capacity. But let's work through the exploration phase, see what we find and then go from there at a later date. So -- but we're excited about it.

Well, a lot of that will hinge on, these are 3 separate tests of similar play concepts. And a lot of that would just hinge on what we found. So at this point, we're purely in an exploration phase. And we'll just have to come back and give you some characterization if we have the success there that we hope we have.

Yes. I would just say, historically, we were running -- if you go back to pre-modernization, we are running 5 drilling rigs and 12 workover rigs. We took the rig count up more than 3x to 15 to 18, and we were only able to take the workover rig count up to 20. So we could only double that when we tripled the drilling set. And so initially, it wasn't a major problem because we were trying to get the efficiencies lined out on the drilling side. But as we got the efficiencies lined out on the drilling side, the workover rigs they were required to complete the drilling wells. And ultimately, we've got to make sure we're managing the base.

So it's just -- it's a new phenomenon. And it's something that ultimately longer term, we're going to need more workover equipment in country. And there's just not a good short-term fix to that.

Neil, first of all, thanks for the question. Secondly, that's exactly where we sit today. We're working with Total. They're in FEED study. We've kind of laid a time line out there that we anticipate an FID before year-end, '24, which is this year, which is great news. And then as of right now, we would say first oil in '28. But I can tell you, our partner and us are working hard to try to accelerate those time lines. But that's where we are at this point. So we remain excited. We do see additional exploration potential in Block 58. But right now, we've kind of got most of the attention on the move in the first development project forward.

Neil, we've had a number a good run of years of really outperformance in the Permian. And when you're running 5 to 6 rigs, which is what we've done, then it becomes very pad dominated in terms of your timing and your sequences. And yes, we don't have a number of -- very many wells coming on early this year. Things are kind of second and third quarter back weighted with the way the schedule works. And so you'll see strong Permian growth on the oil side. We're anticipating up 10%, Q4 '24 over '23. And that's going to more than offset the decline in the North Sea. So continues to be underpin our backbone, and we're going to continue to lean on Permian.

Yes, Leo, I'll jump to Suriname first. I think we've been pretty clear that we see more exploration upside remaining in Block 58 versus Block 53. And so it was an easy answer to go ahead and let 53 go. When you look at the risk profile on Alaska, these are 3D and amplitude supported, but you're going to be -- this is a step out in an area where there's risk associated with it. So I'm not going to give you a number on a ratio, but it is exploration. We're taking -- we're going to drill 3 wells. And they are risky, but they're high reward. So -- and I don't know, Tracey, anything you want to add to that?

I mean, I'll just say, we're always looking to rightsize organization with activity levels. I think the comment in the prepared remarks was that we find ourselves in a much lower price environment. We're always wanting to reduce activity and associated staff if we need to do so. But we have gone through an exercise in the North Sea as we're kind of rightsizing for late life. And so we have gone through some steps there. But we're, quite frankly, very excited about integrating the Callon assets and pulling those into the organization. And we do see some synergies there, but activity levels are still going to be strong and relatively close to where we were last year.

Yes. Thank you. We have chosen to reduce our capital this year and maintain roughly flat production given the potential for a lower commodity price environment while still funding our strategic initiatives. We have intentionally directed more capital towards the Permian, which is performing at an extremely high level. And we look forward to integrating the Callon assets into our Permian operations as well. And lastly, we will keep you up to date on our progress in Suriname and our other exploration plays. Thank you, operator.