John Weinberg
Evercore Inc. (EVR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Let me pick up because the question on restructuring business. The restructuring business had a very good year last year and bookings going into 2024 are quite strong also. We actually feel very good about our prospects going forward. The business is really diversified. It's liability management and also we've built out our creditor business as well as our strong traditional debtor business. So generally, we think that, that business will continue its momentum. It's one of the businesses that we think will have strength going into the year and through the year.

Well, our -- the way we think about hiring is that we are looking at all the areas where we think we have strategic imperatives, and we move into that. We have a very strong pipeline going in with respect to hiring. We will make decisions as we go. We are also trying very hard to make sure that we are being responsible about headcount. And so we're really making sure that we manage people coming in and also there are some that are leaving in the process. I think the best way to think about our head count is that we're going to actually grow where we think it's actually going to be productive for the firm, and we are definitely in the market, and we're going to continue to be responsible in managing our numbers going forward. We clearly are trying to make sure that we grow commensurate with our opportunity.

Yeah, sure thanks, Ryan. The short answer is both. I think the 70.8% fourth quarter number was unusually high, and that was due to some extent to the back-end loading on the arrival of our new SMDs. With respect to the 67.6%, we're absolutely striving to improve on that. And as we all know, there are a number of factors that feed into what the comp ratio is, most important of all is the revenue environment. So certainly, to the extent that the landscape, we think, is improving. And hopefully, our revenues, along with that, we would expect to see some improvement there.

To date, we don't think that there is really anything regarding the election that is putting a damper on people's willingness or interest in strategic dialogues and doing deals. We think that, in effect, in the past, elections haven't really had a major impact. We don't know what's going to happen this year. Obviously, it's a different year, and it's certainly a different election as it is every election. But we don't really see anything right now with respect to the election. The really big concern is actually more than anything else geopolitical. Obviously, there could be economic impacts also if the economy somehow backs up. But I think the thing that people would classify as the biggest risk going into this market right now is the geopolitical risk, which I think is heightened in many respects. I think most people would actually agree with that. And I think that's the thing that we're all watching.

Well, let me take the first part of the question, and I'll let Tim take the second. The people we've hired, we're really excited about. And in some cases, they're already hitting the ground running and revenues coming in as a result of their presence inside the firm. For the most part, you should think of people coming in, in the ramp. And usually, it takes between year and half to two years for a full ramp-up. Some of the people that we've brought in, as I said, are not going to take nearly that long. But I think you should think about it as a consistent ramping of these talented people coming in. And so the revenue growth will happen.

As you also know, this business is somewhat lumpy. You bring in a couple of big deals and then there's a little bit of time between the next couple of deals. And so I think that for the most part, what you should be looking at is the consistent addition of talented people. And over time, that should lead to build in our revenue base. In terms of revenue per banker, that all very much depends on really the market itself and how busy and how active the market is our levels of revenue per banker go up materially as the revenue goes up in the aggregate.

Sure, Devin. We believe that the full recovery of the market is going to require that sponsors really start to engage. We see a warming up of the sponsors but as you said, in 2023, it was slow. And we think 2024, we think there will be -- as there will be on the strategic side, we think there will be a ramp. We have gotten ourselves off to a very good start on the strategic side. We've done some very strong strategic type transactions and frankly, inside the firm, the dialogues are very good. The backlogs are building. I think that the sponsors may be delayed, but we really do believe they will begin to start kicking in.

There's a lot of pressure at the sponsor level to start doing some activity. LPs want capital back. There's just a whole series of flows that need to happen. So we think it will happen. We believe that we will get off to a decent start on strategics. We think that there will be satisfactory activity to really keep us busy and productive. I think though, the sponsor side is going to be important for the overall market. As you may know, or I'm sure you do, 30% and 45% of our revenues come from sponsor-related activities. That is private capital advisory type activities as well as the M&A side. So it clearly is important to us as I think it is to many firms.

As we've looked at how we're looking at the year ahead, we actually think that it's going to be quite a strong year in restructuring. Granted, if rates come down, there will be less distress in the system. Having said that, rates are still pretty high. The maturity walls are out there in 2024 and 2025. And we see a lot of activity, not necessarily in bankruptcies, although there will be bankruptcies, and there will be some larger bankruptcies, but in the activity of liability management and helping companies to structure themselves to grow. And increasingly, we are getting involved in the general course of helping people think through their balance sheet and their liabilities.

And so, as we look at what we're expecting for our restructuring business, it's actually going to be quite a healthy year. And we think that, that will extend itself in the future also. We really feel quite positive about how the market is being defined by our group and really their impact.

Well, I think that the ones who are promoted internally take a little bit longer to really get to the high productivity level because quite frankly and obviously, they're growing and they're learning. A lot of times, with what we're looking for in the lateral sense and people coming in laterally, they're already really at the height of their powers. They come in with a fully developed client base. And in many cases, they have transactions, which they've been talking about and dreaming about and really pushing for quite some time. And so it takes longer and I think hard to really put a number as to how much longer, but I think it's safe to say that the 1.5 to two years is really a, maybe, conservative for the people coming laterally and probably about right for the people who are ramping -- who have been promoted from within.

One of the most important parts of really growing the firm is to create a culture of aspiration and to really allow people to think that they have real opportunity to grow. And so hiring from within, promoting from within, growing our people is really a critical part of what the culture of Evercore is and should be. In addition, creating an environment where people who do come in laterally have a great opportunity to grow and really find their way and fulfill themselves is also a very important part. So it all ties in culturally.

We agree Steven that 2023 was disappointing. We actually see 2024 off to a reasonable start. We actually have a good book of business that's building. We've been in a few deals starting off the new year and we see it building. And so it's hard to really predict exactly where it's going to come out, but we think there's a real strengthening and we are quite optimistic that this will actually continue.

I think that the time lines will continue to be elongated for the foreseeable future. Financing is something that is taking more time to really get that sorted out as companies go forward. There's always a concern at this point regarding the regulatory side and antitrust. And people are taking longer to really do that analysis. I think that honestly, the strategics are feeling tremendous urgency to run to the finish. So I think it's going to take some time. I think the elongated process will continue. I don't see it really accelerating into a deal frenzy for quite some time. And I think what we ought to -- we all ought to actually expect is that it will continue to be in a slightly elongated way for the foreseeable future.

I think those deals where they are far along and the strategy makes sense, I don't think people are going to wait for rates. I think people are going to move forward. I do think that as rate cuts start to kick in, people will look at them and certainly appreciate that rates are going to go lower and that the markets will maybe become even more liquid, but I don't think there's going to be any deals that are actually in process. They're going to be sitting and waiting for the rate cut that may be coming next.

Thank you all for joining us today. We really appreciate it.