John Pfeifer
Oshkosh Corporation (OSK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Just a little bit more color Mig, on the fire and emergency business, when you look at our backlogs, we’ve got really strong backlogs across our businesses, but the strongest backlog we have, when you measure it in terms of how many months of backlog do we have is in the fire and emergency business, I means backlog is years.

And so we’re continuing to increase capacity. This – you asked about supply chain. Supply chain is a lot better today than it was a year ago or a year and a half ago, but it’s still not perfect. Its – our on-time delivery is still kind of in the low-80s, I would say. So, we still have some constraint with supply base, but it is a lot better.

I think more of the issue is getting to just continuing to prudently add capacity like Mike mentioned down we’re going to put fire trucks down in Murfreesboro because we’ve got the ability to do that alongside the electric refuse and recycling vehicles. But both of those segments, fire and emergency and environmental refuse and recycling collection are really strong segments, strong demand. Both have a lot of desire for new electrified platforms, which we’re going into production with as we speak on both. So there’s a lot of optimism long-term in those businesses for us.

Thanks, Mig.

Hey Jerry, I’ll just add to that because you mentioned input costs and you specifically mentioned freight, you’re correct. There’s been some relief in terms of freight costs. But when you look at the total input cost where our businesses take access equipment in this case, while it’s really good that inflation has come way down, if you look at the totality of it, we’re not seeing deflation.

So you can pick out one input cost like freight, and say, yeah, well, freight’s come down. But when you look at the total of everything, really good that inflation has come way down, but it hasn’t gone into deflationary territory.

Thanks, Jerry.

Yes. So Angel talking about orders. So right now with our access equipment segment, we’re still in a very unusual time. It’s not normal for us to go into a year, we’re in early 2024 and be fully booked for the whole year, and that’s the position that we’re in. So when we talk with our customers, the big publicly traded customers that we have, as well as all the thousands of independent customers that we serve, we’re really expecting to start to go back to a normal order cadence. We’re starting to see more equipment replacement in 2024, which is a good thing because equipment needs to be replaced.

The fleet age is old, and our customers are indicating that they want to go back to kind of a normal AOP cycle, meaning we really talk at the end of the year about what the following year’s orders are going to look like. So we expect that season – it has not been normal seasonality in orders the past couple of years, but we do expect normal seasonality to come back into the market, which may mean that we don’t have huge orders in Q1. But we’ll continue to see healthy orders long-term, because we continue to expect the market to perform beyond 2024 into 2025 and 2026 because of all the market dynamics that are in play. So that’s what I’ll say about that.

Thanks, Angel.

Good morning.

So I think the meaning of the orders that we won, these are airport orders. There are airport rescue and firefighting vehicles, the electric vehicles that we put into the market, brand new platform for us. I think the meaning of it is, is that we’ve never had orders from these countries and these places before. We’ve never had orders from airports in France. Don’t know that we’ve ever had orders from airports in Japan. Australia is looking at orders from us as well.

The new product innovations we’re putting into the market, in this case in electrification, are very desirable products and they’re very notable products, and they’re going to drive nice share gains for us. So this airport rescue and firefighting market is one of our smaller end markets that we serve. So it’s not a gigantic market, but they’re very, very profitable products.

And I think the bigger meaning is, is that we’re putting electrified products into the municipal fire market, into the environmental market with refuse and recycling vehicles. We’ve got the NGDV, which is an electric vehicle for the last mile delivery, and specifically the United States Postal Service. I think it’s just an indication of the power of some of the new products as we get them into the market. And one of the first ones that we took to market was this airport rescue and firefighting vehicle, and that’s why we highlighted this.

Yes. So it’s John. I’ll answer this question. We feel even better today about AeroTech than the day that we closed on the acquisition. We love the end market. We already understood a little bit about the end market because of some of the other products we have already been supplying into the airport marketplace. Now, we’re a much bigger player in the airport end market in terms of ground service equipment. But this is a growing market, what we believe it’s going to be in long-term secular growth. We see our position is really strong. We see the fit between the technology that AeroTech has already been working on with our technological capabilities.

So, you’re going to see a lot of autonomous functionality continue to come into that market, which is what our customers, the big airlines and the airports want – you’re going to see electrified product on runways more in the future than you do today in terms of lithium ion electrification, but this business has really great people. It’s got a great culture. It’s a good cultural fit with us. And we just feel really strong about it and strong about the growth opportunities that we can get. And I can – the – from a synergy perspective, the real power behind the synergies is behind the technological synergies. Of course, there’s other synergies we get in terms of operating capability and that sort of thing. But the real powerful synergy long term is the technological synergies that are so strong with us in AeroTech.

Thank you, Tim.

Yes, you're right there. You're right.

Yes. Great question. This is John. I'll answer it. We work really closely with the United States Postal Service, including myself and the Postmaster [ph] General. I mean, we're very connected. We know where they are planning to put the first vehicles. We know what their readiness is. We are planning to work very closely with the United States Postal Service to onboard vehicles. And as you mentioned, training and making sure that things go really well in the early days. We talk about our slow ramp. We start production in a couple of months, and we talk about our slow ramp.

Part of that slow ramp is because together with the United States Postal Service, we want to make sure right from the beginning we really get this right, and then we start to increase production more significantly in 2025 to get the full rate production in 2026. That's all well thought out together with the postal service to make sure that we're putting vehicles where we're ready to put vehicles and where the postal service is ready to put vehicles. So we feel like we've got a really good solid plan and the postal service is really leading the way on their development of being ready to take vehicles.

So when – the first part of your question that was related to last mile delivery vehicles, I think, is that right?

Oh, yes.

Yes. Okay. So first of all in our defense business, our core defense business, we've got a really solid foundation of programs, and this includes our core product, the tactical wheeled vehicles of over $1 billion. And this is a good portfolio of businesses. I'm talking about post JLTV really, but that includes JLTV for international customers.

We have been investing a lot in winning programs in the combat space, which is really important for us because that's the priority for the Department of Defense. So that. it's a place where we can showcase our capability and our technology and earn good margins while we do it. So when you look at that, we won the Striker vehicle that's considered a combat program, where we won a prototype award for the RCV, which is robotic com vehicle, that's a big program.

And we've won some other smaller programs as well. When you add them all up, it's really a healthy book of business. And it's at a healthy margin level. When you look at some of those combat vehicles, the margins are better than our core tactical wheel vehicle program. So as we go forward, our core defense business without the DoD's contract for JLTV is a little bit smaller, but it's still a really healthy book of business for us, and we expect it to continue to be so. And we'll continue to buy for, and we'll continue to win some combat programs along the way, which really help to enhance that business.

Thanks Mike.

Well, the simple answer to your question is yes. I mean, we have continued to stand by our 2025 guidance. When you look at our business, we're a bit capacity constrained in 2024. But when you look at our business and what we're going to continue to do beyond 2024 and the health of the end markets we would – we believe that and firmly believe that Access is in a great position. The markets are strong. We talk to our customers all the time about what to expect beyond 2024.

We, when you look at some of the dynamics happening we expect that to be a really good year as well in the Access Equipment segment. But then you look at all the other end markets that we're serving; you look at the material ramp in postal service vehicles in 2025. We look at the continued expansion of our vocational business in 2025. We've always have never wavered from our 2025 long-range guidance that we have provided.

Thanks Steve.

Hi Nicole.

Is there anything, I'm sorry, I missed your question. Is there...

Yes. Okay. I'm sorry. I just – I maybe just missed misinterpreted your question.

Sure, there's a lot of really healthy dynamics. Long-term, look at the Fire & Emergency segment. The fleets in the Fire & Emergency segment are aged and you couple that with really healthy municipal budgets that's continuing to propel municipalities across North America to continue to upgrade their fleets. And then when you add to that some of the new technology that we're coming out with the Volterra electric municipal fire truck, that's going to continue to propel the market for, we believe many years into the future as there's a lot of municipalities around the country that are really actively wanting to electrify their product.

And when they electrify with our product, this is not just a sustainability initiative. This is a performance improvement and it's a total cost of ownership improvement for municipalities and their fire fleets. You look at the environmental services business with our electric refuse and recycling vehicles, even the traditional product that we have. This is a healthy market where our customers are all continuing to look at fleet replacement and upgrading to electric vehicles in the future, and that's what we're preparing to allow them to do.

The airport markets, you look at the need for more capacity every time you hear the CEO of a major airline talk about, we need to continue to expand capacity. They're not just talking about airplanes. Every time you add an airplane to your fleet, you've got to add ground services equipment. You look at global airport expansion that's continued to go on – projected to continue to go on for years into the future. That's all – that all continues to bode well for our AeroTech business. So the dynamics in our vocational business are really, really solid.

I would not say that there would be a shift away from M&A. We've got an always-on mentality. If you're really truly an acquisitive company, you have to have an always-on mentality because good M&A is a process of patients, so to speak. You really have to know where you want to acquire, and you have to be very, very patient until the right opportunity comes. And if you don't have an always on a constant mentality of paying attention to where do you want to be and what targets make sense in terms of a fit for our company, then you miss the opportunities when they arise. So it's really hard to predict when that's going to happen, but it will happen again. And our always-on pipeline will be in play for quite a while as we have a great balance sheet and we have the opportunity to continue to add value to this company by doing that.

Now having said that, we always expect to return 25% to 35% of our free cash flow to shareholders, we continue to increase our dividend that you saw today, and we'll continue to do share buybacks and we kind of weigh that together with when we have opportunities to make acquisitions. So I think that's the color that I'll add on that.

Yes, I don't know that I'm comfortable to give you a number right now, but let's just say, in 2025, we expect it to be a material number.

I don't think we'll see years that will be zero. That's for sure. Let me just suffice it to say that those are – that's a really good business for us. It's typically hundreds of units per year, not thousands, which would be for the DoD. But when I say that, I will say that it's not going to be surprising to hear that it's continuing to grow, that the international direct sales are continuing to grow. And I think, unfortunately, we all know why. There's unfortunately conflict in the world, and that conflict creates a desire for many countries to continue to shore up their DoD budgets. And I think that, that's why we're seeing growth in those direct sales to international customers that we have.

Normally it’s pretty straightforward. There could be certain customers where it's a little bit more involved. But normally, there's a process, but if we understand the process, we know how it works, and it's pretty straightforward.

Thanks, Steve.

