John Mengucci
CACI International Inc. (CACI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Cai, look, Jeff answered that the way I would have mentioned it. And just the one thing I’ll talk about is on the EITaaS award and on the Spectral one. Those are both long- term technology programs, right? The new business that we have won over this past year goes into backlog with a 72-month contract duration. So these technology programs are actually going to – they’ve all been kicked off. We’re going to have that typical design phase that happens first and then we’re working in both of those cases with customers who are very eager to press or press forward. So I like what they’re going to contribute to FY ’24. But much more impactful as we get out over the next 3 to 5 years.

So if you look at our range, right, on the low end, we’re assuming it’s a full year CR, right? And we have a really tough, tough time, slower and a real uneven pace at getting through the government fiscal year ’24 process. On the upper end, really focus at a much shorter CR and that budget gets passed sooner. We always look at the budget. We always try to do our best at sort of predicting how that’s going to turn out. We’ve got an expectation that the CR lasts for a quarter, Rob. And we honestly look at that from many, many angles. We also looked at the level of our contracting officers. Can they push this budget out to us and the requisite funding? And that is a strong yes from where we may have been 18 to 20 – 24 months back. But what we are confident in with our recent awards is that the large intel program is ongoing work, very critical national security priority so we don’t expect any funding issues with that one.

EITaaS, critical Air Force priority and is well funded at the government fiscal year ’23 levels. And then Spectral is a critical program for the Navy, particularly supporting the near — indiscernible — and the INDOPACOM region. So those 3 larger programs that are proiding a level of growth as we go through our fiscal year ’24, we look to be safe funded there

Yes, Rob. So a couple of pieces. First off, we’re looking at a recent report looking at the defense industry. And it’s sort of pretty much concluded that the Pentagon does not find a need to modify its way to guidance in sending profit levels. I would tell you that our general experience is that we see customers largely pursuing best value techno procurements and doing things as far reaching as putting in price floors. So on those times where we find ourselves rarely big in the job that has a rate table really trying to discourage against aggressive bidding.

Look, we’re always going to have aggressive pricing and LPTA is still going to be out there. But we’re pretty disciplined about what we work on and what we pursue and how we pursue it. I also think they are pretty different than others as our strategy, frankly, is built on the ability of technology enabling the most cost-effective solutions. Sort of the replacement with some of that lower-priced expertise with technology solutions.

And I guess as an example, BEAGLE with our customs and border patrol customer, that’s still our price example where we won with a customer that appreciates best value. We brought efficiency via Agilent scale. We’re doing far more with far fewer people. And that really gives the customer the optionality to sort of take that savings at the price level and they come back to us and frankly, driving even more work and in some cases, moving work from other contracts on to ours.

So we sort of weathered some of those pricing pressure items. I’d also leave it with about half of our workforce is fungible to us. That’s the beauty of having differentiated this business starting 7 or 8 years back where, yes, we do have a lot of software talent and engineering talent and analyst talent in our expertise side.

But half of – the rest of the folks, the other half of the direct bills are working across a number of different programs, which is what our customers have told us is much more important because they get to understand what we’re doing for other customers out there. So pricing pressure, not a big watch item for us any longer. Thanks for the question, Rob.

Peter, I guess I’ll start with sort of how we got to where we are, that really allows you to sort of see this. We didn’t lock out on those 3 large jobs. They’ve actually been a product how we’ve been focusing this business and making certain when wins like this come in that we understand how to operate those. It’s so much more about the vision of being different and really 7 years ago, setting out our long-term plan in an investment plan to really differentiate from where we are.

I’ve always said, strategy is a place where we come from. And with a good strong strategy, it provides clarity and you all know best, clarity – with clarity, you get focus. So our strategy was to create a new part of our business that was purpose-built for the future pipe. Software-based receptible markets with large funding streams also helps you on the margin side. We acknowledge that the customer mission was going to be very critical but also, we could build upon our collection of 60-year plus relationships with a number of customers.

So then we had to search out customers that had a bias towards leaning towards the art of the possible. Again, another margin hint there, which is if you find the right customers are looking to do things differently and they will jump on to our view and take great advantage of our investing ahead of customer need, then when those programs come up, frankly, we reshaped our business development process to not only modify how we pursue business, how we bid less and win more, and we bid larger with margin always in mind that we really got the customer to help us differentiate before the RFP.

You also saw customers or the jobs that we’re out there bidding on, asking less for LPTA and more for value creation and this expertise big you bring in more technology. And our long-term vision was, yes, as long as that begets higher margins, right? Because I’m investing ahead of need.

So all of that plays into the programs that we have to join talking about. On the EITaaS program, that is a network development applications IT job. They really begs of additional work becoming part of our multiyear scope and with each one of those terms based on how we can set the model up with our customer, those are kind of programs that can not only continue to maintain margins, but actually push margins forward. So sort of right there and see if that answers.

Look, first off, we’re extremely pleased that war was reaffirmed after not only the first, but the second protest. Based on the fact that we’re providing the high-end network exploitation work there, it’s a $1.5 billion award. We’re on track and are ramping up, it’s exactly 100% in line with our expectations as well as our customers. It’s including both the staff transition and our hiring plan. Work will continue to ramp up as different task orders transition to us. We actually see the majority of that transition happening in the late October time frame.

We’ll have some additional growth and we get out to the middle of 2025 based on some longer-term task orders. But at the end of the day, we did that job with a phenomenal staffing plan that guarantees us customer no gaps in coverage. We have their absolute support. And one other area, Peter, that we’ve worked on that’s been very unique is on some of these large expertise programs, where you have cleared folks, I have to be cautious, right?

Because when people come off of those programs, you want them to lose their clearance. And what our customer has done greatly in a really great early sign of the tremendous partnership we have with them is that they rework their security process to support our onboarding of nearly 1,000 people on this program. So on large expertise programs as you plan it right and have a great customer relation-

ship, and they want you to perform that work, we’re perfect evidence on this large intel program that customers will make certain that we thought to speed quickly. So thanks so much for your questions.

Look, I’ll start off. Look, we’re being very flexible and opportunistic based on the different dynamics that we see. You called out some of those. We’re always looking at our M&A pipeline, stock price and valuation, leverage and interest rates and the like. All options are always on the table.

Jeff mentioned a little bit about our $750 million share repurchase authorization. We’ve got a lot of different levers here in capital deployment that will benefit our shareholders in both the near and the long term by driving growth in free cash flow per share. Jeff, do you want to share some of the details?

Look, spot on. Let me start with SIGINT EW, right, because sometimes we tend to not talk about that, which is settled in right sort stream of consciousness going. Make no mistake about it, SIGINT and EW, both the interim investments and the acquisitions that we did, those were the foundation to winning Spectral. Based on open architecture investments, making sure we have the right hardware and the right software tools, all the software that we’ll be delivering on Spectral is software that you would have seen in our counter-UAS buildup in all of our SIGINT Mission Tech deliveries and the like. As we continue to invest in the Photonics area, yes, you’ve got the right model. Look,

as I think I said this quarter, this is a 5- to 10-year market opportunity. We’re looking to complete some of our movement of production from Los Gatos, Orlando, making sure that we have the right production fascinating in place. We’ve won our fair share of jobs on STAs, Tranche 0 and Tranche 1. We’re looking for some Tranche 2 awards going out here shortly in the next quarter or 2.

So yes, I mean, we are – we continue to invest heavily.

You are going to see the output of our Photonics business late in our fiscal year ’24, that’s within our plan. And then ’25 and beyond, we’ll start to see volume that we are – in alignment that will continue to not only drive topline growth, but also push our bottom line going forward. So long story short, investment is in place, great acquisitions, what LGS did in Photonics and I think Photonics are inextricably connected and love what we’re seeing with the high-end tech pieces, especially our bespoke solutions we already have operating space really excited about the launch of the 16 OCTs, the first in space and operating at or above spec. Thanks for the question, Bert.

Look, the way I would characterize it is as follows: first off to the first part of your question. We’re a supplier of optical communication terminals, right? So we’re a supplier to major satellite builders. So as for loss leaders and the like, we’re well within the range that we wanted to be at this point in our development cycle. Contrary to other suppliers, we had about a 15-year head start with the acquisition of LGS, we have real bespoke solutions \that were already on orbit before we started talking about FDA, before we started talking about what we haven’t assessed yet are these proliferated Leos.

It does to our plan, contribute to our FY ’24 top and bottom-line growth. It fits in nicely. We’ve got some more development work to do around producibility, which is well within the time line that we have laid out. And we have some very – I guess, I just used the word nice bids in place for Tranche 2 and for other work. I’d also tell you beyond the satellite comms part, there are other domains that we’re looking at using Photonics, right? It is a perfect way to map the Earth. It’s perfect in the ELINT space.

So when, in my opening remarks, I was talking about – I spent a lot of time in the space, clearly, but then in other domains is sort of code for ELINT and you can do ELINT from a number of places, you do from the air, you can do it from the space and the like. So it’s appropriately and tastefully part of our FY ’24 plan. And you’ll see it more prominently as we move forward to FY ’25.

So a couple of directions here. I guess, let’s start with the large recent awards, right? So part of our long-term strategy was so – we would be at the point that we weren’t talking about 3% annual organic growth rate, we will be talking about something around the mid-single digits. It’s a balancing act, frankly, making certain that we’re driving free cash flow growth per share. Then we’re looking at all different levels, right? So you can get that with a reasonable, predictable topline growth with margin expansion, you get there with really high topline growth.

Specifically on the 3 jobs that we won, the EITaaS job is going to start with upfront planning and design, think lower volume, I think that, that ramps over time. The expertise job, it’s going to take a little bit of time to transition that work as task orders turn. But clearly, we are providing expertise in that case. So that ramp’s going to be very fast and then it lives there for quite a long period of time, hopeful of growth as we go out. Then on Spectral, this is a large new technology program. It starts with a lot of upfront planning and design. So I think lower volume and there’s multiple paths for them to ramp over time. So what’s really important is not just the growth rate, we see this kind of money – this kind of awards going into our backlog in essence, why isn’t revenue growing faster. At the end of the day, our goal to building a differentiated company in this sector is to make sure that we have

long-term predictable revenue growth. Okay, I’m not big on spikes. I’m big on continuous improvement. I’m really big on full year numbers, not highly motivated by quarter end points.

So if you look at why we’re winning this kind of business, the sort of mantra of bid less and win more and bid longer term, is over the last 7 years, I’m spending materially less on winning business that I have already had in my book of business. So my recompete rate comes down. Over time, all those millions of dollars I get to transfer that from BNP to IRAD for I’m building exquisite outcomes for customers I have and customers that I don’t have yet. So it’s much more complex than you just put $7.4 billion into it. I’d also warn again, and we’ve said this many times, don’t take the ceiling value it by the top because it gives you not the full picture of where we’re looking to grow.

So look, we came out of FY 2023 with 6% organic. We’re going into this year with 6% organic. Clearly, you don’t mean all of your recompetes. So there’s a bucker 2 worth of

revenue we had last year, we no longer have this year, so we have to net that out. And the programs come to international end. So we’re going to model differently than what the most rest of the sector is because we are preserving sector-leading EBITDA margins and making sure that we’re growing in line with that.

25

Yes. These are generally not capital-intensive businesses. I mean you see a little bit of

CapEx and we’ve noted at a little bit of working capital growth. We have some very mod-

est CapEx associated with the move from California to Florida of our Photonics facilities.

But these are not, in the traditional sense, at all capital-intensive businesses. I mean,

these are very modest in terms of capital intensity. Did that answer your question?

Yes. So our backlog is really representative of the book of business we have now. As Richard goes back to your earlier question around do the margins and the ramp of the programs in our backlog support future growth of both, frankly, right? The answer is yes, as Jeff mentioned, we would expect over time, our CapEx spend to come back down to a lower level once we made some of these technology-based capital investments. How the backlog on tax is sort of at our mix today, I think our mix is 53.47. What’s important for us is that 70% of our bids that we’re bidding and we’re looking to be awarded are on the technology side. So one would say that in some of HRs is sort of broken through that sheet, and we sort of – we’re now actually able to build more technology jobs than we have in the past. How those come out of backlog can vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, right?

So 1 of expertise going in is going to unpack sooner and faster and $1 of technology is going to unpack slower and more with little time. So that’s about how we model it. But rest assured, the most important time to look at is, are we bidding things at the right mix of revenue growth. Are they core to the 5 markets that we serve? Are we doing the acquisitions in a strategic deliberate manner? Are we buying shiny objects that drive revenue? Or are we buying things that fill in gaps for long-term growth? It’s why we’re really pushing on free cash flow per share growth because it’s so much more than whether by my technology and my backlog unpacks at $2 a year versus $1. So probably not an overly satisfying answer, but it sort of is how we manage this business. David Strauss No, that’s helpful color. And then in terms of a follow-up, is there any capital deployment at all assumed in the guidance, whether it be debt paydown? I don’t think there is a share repurchase based on the assumed share count.

And I guess this isn’t aimed at you. To be honest, I said this so I don’t see the numbers until we disaggregate them to put the data in the back of our tables that are in the back of our release. I can probably take the time to investigate that in detail prior to these calls. I will tell you that everybody is well aware we lost TSA impact. Last year, it was probably in the third to fourth quarter. So if we’re looking at a comparison in the numbers that you’re talking about, but I can’t be 100% certain. At the end of the day, our leaders in each of our markets delivers the whole of government.

So whether DoD is up 6% or down 4% or civil, and this is a response to everybody out there. Our customers love the fact that we’re aligned by what it is we deliver it, what it does [indiscernible] right? They crave information. They love shared investments because we get to invest once and we get to blubber to many. So that’s a great win-win. They aren’t competitors or customers. They’re actually friends. And I sort of believe that we should meet customers where they’re at, which is I don’t want to impose my work structure or how I measure my financials on them. So what we do is we bring things up to expertise intact. My 3 presidents have the full rein to go all the way across the federal government. Whether it’s commercial ask, whether it’s Fed civil, DoD and Intel, so I really

– I want to always be extremely transparent. I just can’t tell you what actually drove that.

But I can tell you, it’s just as easily that next quarter, Fed sale will be up 9% and DoD will

be down 4%. And I wouldn’t tell anybody that, that’s good ore, but it just sort of is.

So I guess, first off, Spectral, right? I think what makes Spectral special is that it really is proof-positive of the investment thesis that we’ve had for a while is how we want to go about differentiating ourselves within the sector and also moving out forward, we know we’re successful on the vision we had a number of years back. But if I were to just go back over that, we’ve been a disciplined acquirer. We didn’t get distracted by buying revenue. We built each acquisition investment on the prior one, was the foundation, massive on hardware, more tactical LGS software, more bespoke solutions, ABT bringing in Gimbal and mobile kind of UAS and other tuck-ins. We didn’t bear from that goal. New technology markets with large funding streams, where we could differentiate, propose a business that’s actually purpose-built for where the future goes.

Spectral is the first step in that. I think it’s quite noteworthy of what we have done on Spectral. It’s noteworthy in that 3 aerospace and defense companies joined our team. And to me, that’s a sign that we differentiate across that entire very highly competitive space. In a market we’ve proven we can punch above our weight where long-term investments were absolutely needed and U.S. Navy is going to be a massive beneficiary for selecting us and our partners to be able to drive that.

You talked about AI. And look, I’ve always said that you can’t spell CACI without AI, but

a little bit of humor that I have to have that. Look, to us, AI is a technology very similar

to cyber, Sheila, it is becoming inherent in everything that we do. It’s more about the

outcomes. So to us, AI is important, but it’s a tool. And I think last quarter, I actually

talked about 3 different places, right? I look at AI, I think about machine learning, RPA, and generative. On the computer vision piece that you related to, yes, that’s absolutely

part of what we’ve done. One was on contract, our Sapphire NGA customer.

The other one was self-funded. It was all our own intellectual property, which is really how can we help NGA basically produce digital maps faster. So this is a house, this is a tank. This is a missile silo. How to use machine learning over a number of years to not replace what the analyst does, but allow us to create maps in a much more repetitive and much more efficient manner?

Broadly, we’ve got about 200 major programs across this company. And I have to tell you, in some way, in more than half of them, Sheila, we have been doing that for either years or months or days. It’s important that how I see AI is just to appreciate a couple of things. One is it is an important capability and differentiator for us and it has been for a long time. And the second piece is our AI is real. I continually talk about that. Our technology drive and our vision was to have it be real tangible, you can touch it, you can see it, and a customer recognizes it in their outcome.

It’s real, is deployed. It’s also revenue generate. So it’s not on the slide. It’s not aspirational. It’s so much a part of our technology work, which I call delivering versus the expertise side. So we’re not advising, we’re not consulting, we’re actually doing. So we’re being very cautious, I’ve gotten a lot of questions how does AI support the financial growth of the company. And my answer is it always has. But we’re being very in line with our customer, right?

There’s an organization looking at how do I trust the AI coming out. DoD has a responsible AI guidance, we’re very familiar with it. They don’t build solutions. They go beyond that. Look, I think it’s an enabling technology just as cyber was 10 to 15 years back. Will it have an impact in the space that we serve? Absolutely so. But have we already helped to impact ourselves so we could be more efficient and more cost-effective? Absolutely so. So thank you for that. Appreciate it.

I mean it’s – the high environment has been competitive for, I guess, since [indiscernible] maybe but it’s no different than it has been in the past. But we really strive to be the employer of choice in our sector, and that’s what we start off with. So what are the things that we can do to make sure that we’re attracting the right talent that does then support our programs, which then supports our growth. I’m quite happy to say that about 50% of our work are people that we hired to do work on behalf of our customers meaning that they are in RC stack facilities and they are creating technology solutions.

Look, we’ve got three great programs within this company. Cascade making moves, enables mobility and helps retention, one of every 4 openings of this company is built by some- body else in this company looking to be promoted, looking to do something different.

That’s very unusual for what is usually a people-intensive, direct-label, reportable sector. Second is, we’ve improved our referral program and the incentives that nets about 40% of all of our hires, right? Great people know other great people. And then we just recently put a flexible time-off program in place, then I’ll spend a minute or 2 on – we also have continued to expand our internship program. That’s where we cultivate talent, we bring folks in from college at a freshmen level, at a software level introduced into national security space, talk about how their engineering degree, how that unpacks when they come to us, how they support so many eye-watering technologies that were out there delivering. And then frankly, we finished FY ’23 with attrition, a little over 1 point lower than what it was in fiscal year 2022. We continue to win Best Places to Work awards, and we’re driving our time to accept the time to start metric. So that’s probably a 12-point answer to how we’re going to handle this large influx. But I would tell you the technology programs, I often get asked, revenue is coming up at x and we’re surprised that your headcount has it. In the technology space, headcount is not linear to revenue, okay? We have people working on multiple programs, taken their amazing engineering talent to bring that to other programs. If I may, a moment on our FTO program. Look, it’s a breakthrough program. We launched it on July 1 in our surveys that we do, 2 of the benefits that resonate most of our employees is time-off and flexibility. So it just seemed like flexible time-off is the right title for it. At the end of the day, employees could take time-off as needed without

a set number of maximum days. It allows our employees to better balance their work and their personal commitments. It differentiates and strengthens our positioning as a highly sought after employer. And I can tell you, we didn’t do this with revenue in mind, we actually took us quite a while to assess this program. We actually use data from a prior acquisition that had a similar

program in place for about 4 years. So back to tie off what we’re going on in people. We know that this program works. We’re already seeing the impact of it and are already recruiting and I’ve been asked is that a headwind to revenue growth that I find puzzling. But at the end of the day, our work still needs to be completed. So 4-gram leaders to the staffing and justice they need to make

to support this outstanding program going forward. So buying talent is very, very tough.

We put many, many programs in place over a long number of years. And we continue to be that company that when we win work, you won’t hear us say we won the work. We can’t divert the revenue because we can’t find the people. Mariana Perez Mora Great color. My follow-up on M&A. First, short term and then long term. In the short term, what are you seeing in terms of pipeline, areas of opportunity and pricing? And in the long term, what will M&A plays out in keeping the competitive advantage?

Well, thanks. Thanks, Lisa, and thank you for everybody who was joined during the call today. We know that many of you will have follow-up questions, Jeff McLauchlan and Dan Leckburg will be available after today’s call. So thanks again for joining us, stay healthy, and all the best to you and your families. This does conclude our call. Thank you, and have a great day.