John Turner 
Regions Financial(RF) CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Yes. Scott, this is John. I would – our current projections are, we believe economic activity picks up towards the second half of the year and we believe we will experience some growth in core middle market banking and small business banking through our Centium platform asset-based lending, which would be typical of this period of time. And on the consumer side, mortgage and EnerBank continue to contribute to growth. Again, any growth we have will be modest, and that will occur likely toward the back half of the year.

Good morning.

Yes. I’d just add two things, Ebrahim. One is we continue to grow consumer checking accounts and consumer households that contributes to growth. Secondly, we had the best year we’ve probably ever had in treasury management as we see increases in the number of operating accounts that we’re originating and services we’re providing to customers. And then finally, Wealth Management had maybe the best year it’s had certainly in some time, and we expect wealth management fee revenue to continue to grow in 2024.

Yes. I think probably all of the above, clearly, rising interest rates that have had some impact rising costs, cost of goods, cost of labor has had an impact. And then uncertainty related to the economy, geopolitical conditions, the political environment here in the U.S., all have, I think, created some restraint. Borrowers are, I believe, more optimistic today than they were 60 to 90 days ago, and that’s in-line with what appear to be improving economic conditions, but still reluctant to initiate long-term investments currently just based upon the things that I described.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning.

And definitely for 2025.

I’d just say, John, with respect to the increase in NPLs, we’ve called out portfolios that have been under some stress for a number of quarters now. What we saw in the quarter was some migration from criticized classified to non-performing, specifically in senior housing, in transportation and warehousing, transportation, specifically and office and then additionally, manufacturing of consumer discretionary items. So that was our expectation. We have one large technology credit that moved in the third quarter. That is episodic, we believe, is something that we can and believe we will manage through. So when you look at the migration, as we pointed out, we are moving back to more traditional sort of historical levels of non-performing loans, which is somewhere between 80 and 100 to 110 basis points. I think maybe David said the average was 102 or 106, 107 from ‘14 and ‘19. And we’ve guided to 40 to 50 basis points of charge-offs, which we think is in-line with our expectations for potential loss in the portfolio over time. So I think we feel we have good insight into the credits that we’re managing as to why, I would say the burden of increasing interest rates, increasing cost, cost of labor, operating costs, all those things have had an impact specifically on the industries that we’ve historically now called out transportation, senior housing, office, consumer discretionary.

Now with respect to the allowance, we have a process we follow and go through every quarter. And I think we believe – we currently believe, obviously, that we’ve provided for potential losses in the portfolio over time, unless we experienced growth in the portfolio or paydowns in the portfolio, some changes in outstandings in the portfolio or in economic conditions. You can assume that our allowance is appropriate and likely won’t change the trajectory of it will not change unless the economy changes.

Thank you.

Good morning Gerard.

I would say, yes, Gerard. The leverage portfolio is largely relationship-based credit business. Those are banking relationships that we enjoy, we are close to those customers and we have been close to them throughout this period of elevated rates. There was some risk as rates rose, that we had – that there may be some softness in the portfolio, but I think it’s performed well. The same is true of our Shared National Credit book. And we began to build the capital markets business to help us grow and diversify our revenue and to meet more customer needs. We naturally then began to expand the size of our Shared National Credit book so that we could serve those customers that had need for those products and services. And with that, as you can imagine, comes some tall free risk, single name risk and while I mentioned earlier, we have a technology credit that’s fairly substantial. That’s an NPL. That is an example of Shared National Credit exposure that we have good visibility into. We think has very limited risk of loss, but still as a non-performing loan. But overall, I would say, just based upon the reflection on the performance of that book, it’s been good. We have enjoyed expanding relationships, growing revenue from capital markets and/or deposits, treasury management that we enjoy with those customers. And so I think we have been pleased with the performance of both the leverage book and the Shared National Credit book.

We have very modest exposure to private equity who then is – we are not lending private equity to, in turn, lend into our customer base. So, if we have any exposure, it would be very modest there. Separately, we don’t see private equity as a competitor necessarily within our core middle market customer base. I asked Ronnie Smith the question the other day if he could name a customer that we lost to private credit. And we can’t think of one. Now it doesn’t mean it’s not occurring in some of the markets that we are in. But by and large, given our focus on the core middle market business and investment-grade type Shared National Credit exposure, we are just not – we are not seeing private credit as a competitor today. On the wholesale side now there are lots of competitors on the consumer side that we are seeing in a variety of different ways, including mortgage and home improvement that we compete with.

Yes. That’s right.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Yes. No. Yes. To answer your question specifically, that project is on time and on budget, no delays.

Yes. We are seeing improvement in the senior housing space, notwithstanding the fact that we have a couple of credits we are carrying as non-performing. We – generally, occupancy rates are improving over time. Today, we have got about $63 million in – I am sorry, $57 million in – $118 million in non-performing loans and reserves against those credits of about 3.7%. So, I think we have maybe provided information on Slide 20 in your deck. But we are seeing improvement in senior housing as occupancy rates pick up and people become a little more comfortable with communal living again amongst that eighth group.
How are you?

Thank you.

Good morning Matt.

I would just say that the countermeasures that we put in place which include talent, technology, process changes, all have been effective. And we believe going forward, the run rate will be $20 million to $25 million a quarter in operating losses, and the expenses associated with those countermeasures are embedded in our run rate and in our projection for expenses for 2024.

Thank you. Okay. Operator, is that the end of the calls?

Okay. Well, thank you very much. I appreciate everybody’s participation today and interest in our company. Have a good weekend.