John Turner
GMS Inc. (GMS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think we still have a couple of quarter trough here to work through in builder activity. But we certainly were encouraged with the May starts number, and if we start seeing that follow on with the builder sentiment that we're hearing, we would expect that to continue to some extent that the latter half of our fiscal year should probably be better than we would have previously expected, not comfortable yet to talk about growth in that category, but I believe that what we just talked about certainly is less bad than we would have expected even quarter ago. So, our first quarter guide here of down 10 to 15 is probably in the neighborhood of 5 to 10 points better than we would have previously expected for this quarter.

So, the continuing backlog in the Southeast of starts versus completions that still exists in Florida to some extent, maybe there's 100,000 units or so total left in that backlog. But now you're starting to see some acceleration in other markets again. And like I said, I guess six months of still double-digit probably declines, I would guess, in volume. But after that, should be back into the single-digits and maybe we'll get lucky and we'll see some growth in the back half.

Again, even the starts numbers here just the other day, we're still strong for multifamily and I think completion is still trailed again this last month or for again, then I would say not still, but again, trail, completions trail starts at multifamily adding to the backlog. So six months, I think we've talked about getting through all of -- all the way to calendar ‘24. So that would be at least six more months of solid growth. And then we'll have to look at what happens. I would expect those starts numbers to begin to decline as I think most people would say that we're going to be built out from a multifamily perspective, mid-‘24, we’re at record levels now, right, or since at least the early 80s. So I'm comfortable and confident in the next six months, how about that?

Let me answer the macro and I'll hand it back to Scott. Whether or not that specific issue is driving the resilience in pricing, I'll let others speculate. But it's a factor, there's a lot of factors, quite frankly, in my opinion. And that is -- that's purely that even if you looked at the first quarter shipments from the GA, the Gypsum Association first quarter shipments, calendar quarter were only down 1%. And so you still have high levels of capacity utilization happening.

And the expectation that those -- what we will see is sequentially, kind of, normal seasonality in the market, which would mean this quarter should be better than first quarter, which means more capacity being utilized. And then we touched on it in our script, certainly there's a lot of noise around synthetic gypsum. And while I'm not an expert in manufacturing of this product, I certainly understand that the raw material itself is becoming more difficult to obtain and more costly to obtain.

So I think between what you mentioned, just generally speaking, stronger volume than I think most people would expected and raw material inflation. Of course, wage inflation as well, I think we're seeing a more resilient wallboard market.

I guess based upon the stronger-than-expected volumes and very strong steel volumes, if you look at it, I wouldn't think that we are doing anything other than the existing productivity initiatives, which we always have in place, which we talked about in the script. And that is getting better at what we do in leveraging technology to service our customers better. And I think that's more of a cost avoidance opportunity for us going forward, the ability to push more through our machine without having to add as much cost.

I think our slight beat to guidance in our SG&A number we certainly had some contributing factors on the top line, but with steel declining as dramatically as it did, I feel pretty confident that we're achieving that, that $15 million on a run rate basis. We did talk about it ramping up. So I would say it's probably a couple of million dollars in this quarter that we're talking about now. And then it'll, kind of, ramp up into the run rate of the $3 million or $4 million a quarter as we go forward.

Appreciate it.

Hey, David.

Probably steel doing something strange. I would imagine would probably be the driver of that. I just don't see it happening in the other categories, pricing is resilient in wallboard and even if that top line was to change a little bit, right? The margin probably doesn't change in that category and it's really the volatility around steel would be the one negative wildcard for gross margin.

Well, that's a tough one. I mean, I think we could see steel continue to decline, right? I mean, even while steel prices declined, we maintain or grew our gross margin in the quarter. So I think that's something that we could see steel deflate and we could see gross margin stayed the same or improved slightly, potentially based on the lag effect there on the way down, right? We would have quoted some higher prices out into the future on commercial projects. Inflation is moderating somewhat on the wage side, it’s -- we're still dealing with, you know, on a year-over-year basis, we're talking about kind of the inflation that we committed to last year.

The inflation we're committing to at this point on the wage side is less on a percentage basis than it would have been in previous periods. Certainly, if the economy stays in kind of this odd malaise or this switch over to services from goods, I don't see a lot of transportation inflation and I don't see a lot of fuel inflation in this environment either. So I don't know how to answer your question in aggregate. That's some macro things that I see.

Yes. Thank you, Dave.

Yes. We don't have as good internal information on pure new versus is the TI, but clearly TI is lower than historical right now. And so there's a stronger mix of new commercial and I think what you're seeing is you're seeing some of these mega projects that I've mentioned in my remarks, in our scripture, you're seeing some of these larger projects come to fruition and certainly you've seen some huge plant announcements made whether it’d be chip manufacturing or otherwise. I think the -- I read the other day that manufacturing is now accounting for double -- manufacturing starts is accounting for double what it did in the prior year period in the put in place construction numbers. So you are seeing a resurgence in large manufacturing in the United States and those projects, they take a lot of wallboard depending on the type of manufacturing.

So certainly, we're seeing new construction being more important. All that being said, outside of office, you're still seeing good remodel active, you know, institutions are remodeling dorms out there. You're seeing multifamily remodeling to compete with the new. You're seeing a lot of retail changes in the retail landscape, a lot of redevelopment of historical malls into all types of multi-use facilities and entertainment arenas and areas. So there's still a lot of remodel activity out there as well. Just not office, large office. What you're seeing is you're seeing the suburban office, right, start to tick up a little bit. But that's -- a lot of that's new.

The mix of multifamily and commercial has helped. The product mix on multifamily and commercial has absolutely helped. And our steel margins were better-than-expected, because our volumes were much better. So some incentive type of impact to gross margin was real in quarter, that probably won’t repeat as we go into our fiscal first and second quarters. So while we still have good volume, those incentives won't be anything -- won't be a part of the calculation until much later in the year when we understand what the absolute total volume might really be.

So, steel will moderate a little bit this quarter for sure and that probably gets us back into our and as we mentioned and Scott mentioned as well, the wallboard moderation in price, we expect a little bit of moderation in price in wallboard. So maybe a tick lower in wallboard margins as well.

I mean, at least in the next couple of quarters, the volume looks good, the backlog looks good. As we mentioned in the script, the regional banking discussions, the availability of capital, tightening, lending standards, all those kinds of things that we all read about. They haven't impacted the near-term quoting activity yet. You saw the ABI came out had growth again for the first time in a few months earlier this week, moderate growth, but still growth. So most of the indicators would say we're probably in an environment that we should enjoy this mid-single-digits through the next couple of quarters. After that, it will be based upon new data, right? It will be based on the tightening -- fed tightening, bank tightening, take a look at all that.

Absolutely. Good morning.

Let's see. It will continue until we get -- we start rolling over where we started to see this, which is probably still three quarters. So I would imagine that it will be at least three quarters where we'll still see the mix shift benefit on the gross margin side to some extent. And that we'll still see the cost of surfing a little bit higher. The steel as an example, when you ship 6% or 7% more volume in steel, and it's going out at 20% lower prices and there's inflation on the delivery side. The G&A as a percent of sales looks lousy, but you're still generating the same gross margin dollars or more gross margin dollars that we generated in the prior year period. So it's still a really nice profitable sale. It's just as a percent of sales that SG&A looks bad, right? So I think that dynamic is going to continue for two, three quarters.

I mean likely to some extent, yes. So I'm not sure we in wallboard with the exception of maybe the Southeast didn't really delay projects in comparison to the long international supply chains of some of the finishes. So, I think we were still able to supply even at the peak, we were still able to supply in a reasonable amount of time. Although there was some scrambling going on for sure. But I would say that, yes, I mean, if you think your single family, most of the builders can complete in six months then start to finish is still -- is six months and that's our cycle.

Thank you. Appreciate it.

Thank you.
