Jose Mas
MasTec, Inc. (MTZ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, so a couple of things. I think that on the project side of our Power Delivery business, we're -- we've been really excited for a period of time. We think we've been really close on a number of projects that we haven't won over the last couple of years. We've obviously been doing a lot of integration as we integrated all the acquisitions that we've made and I think our -- where we stand in the market today versus where we were a year or two ago is a very different place and I think customers recognize that and I think customers are excited about giving us an opportunity to work on large projects and I think we're going to be very successful this year on being able to attain that. So I do think that over the coming quarters, hopefully, we'll have at least something to announce and talk about and add to backlog, which I think could have an impact as early as 2024. With that said, for margins for the year, we're basically guiding relatively flat margins on a year-over-year basis. So there's not a big change in the margin profile for 2024 as it was in 2023.

So. Our contract with AT&T is what they call it turf contract, right. So in certain geographic areas we have, exclusivity on specific types of work and that isn't really changing. So, whether -- whatever initiatives they'll be doing in the geographies that we've been awarded, we're going to be the ones that perform those services.

Thank you.

There's no question that the sentiment has been improving, transferability is having significant impact but I think more importantly, what we've done as a company is we really went through every project that we see potential on in terms of stuff that we expect to happen in 2024. I think we significantly de-risked our expectations relative to understanding where every project stands from a financing perspective, from an interconnect perspective and I think that while we talked a lot about this last year is something that, quite frankly, we don't have to hope to talk a lot about this year. There are a number of other projects that could hit quite frankly that we probably underestimated their ability to be performed in '24, but anything that has significant risk to it, we've kind of moved it aside and not counted it for '24, but there's no question that the sentiment is improving, the opportunity to use different methods to finance projects has improved considerably since the latter part of next year and I think as a total industry, we're going to see a significant increase in what comes out in the second half of 2024.

So, we didn't we haven't assumed that it's going to be any better than 2023. 2023 was a really low storm year, it's very difficult to model that. So we have a very -- we have a baseline budget that you got to include something for. So, it's not much different than what '23 was, so I think there's opportunity there. To be clear on the previous part, I mean, Exelon did announce a significant reduction, right. They've announced $1.25 billion reduction over three years in distribution spend. It is a big area for us, so that is what's having the impact where we slightly moderated our revenue target for 2024 in our Power Delivery business.

Thank you.

Good morning, Andy.

Well, when we look at '23 -- let's start with '23, right. What we've said is our wireless business was down versus '22, our wireline business was up double-digits, right. So, we had another strong wireline year. We've talked a lot about this on our third-quarter call. So, that was really unchanged through the balance of the year. As we think about 2024, we expect our Wireline business to be up again, because it's a very strong market. There's changes in cadence as we did see a slowdown in the second half of '23 versus the first half of '23, but again the demand in that business is extremely high. And when you add-on BEAD's funding which will start impacting the business from '25, it's a very positive development. On the wireless side, it's different, right. On the wireless side, I think this particular award coupled with the change that AT&T is doing in their network will have a significant impact on MasTec and today our wireline, wireless company used to be -- we were bigger on wireless, quite frankly today, we're bigger in wireline. So it's about a 60-40 split. This contract will probably get a closer to 50-50 over the course of the next couple of years and it's going to have a meaningful impact to our Wireless business, our Wireless business has the ability to grow probably 30% to 50% from where it was in '23. So, it's a significant award, it has a significant impact on the total revenues for the segment.

Yes, so the first, I think the first thing that's really important to kind of focus on is as we looked at '24 even in late '23, right, we're not viewing it as MasTec legacy versus IEA, we've gone to market with one business. So, we've got a MasTec renewables business. We do have different operating groups that might perform the work but in market -- we're in market as MasTec Renewables with one leadership team. And when we think about the industry as a whole, it ends up being very focused on customers, right. Each customer is in a different place. Each customer has different challenges. So, it's really about understanding where every customer sits on a particular project, irrespective of what's happening across the entire marketplace. The entire marketplace, there is definitely some that have more challenges than others. I think it's going to get better for everybody as the year goes on, but we've really focused on those developers, and projects that we think are primed to-be-built in '24 or going to have less issues and that's kind of how we've built our model. Surprisingly, when we think about '24, the growth in wind and solar has been somewhat equal, we're seeing a lot of strength in the wind market, especially on the repowering side. We've had a lot of bookings there. We think that's what we like about that is the predictability of it, those projects have a lot less potential issues as you think about the constructability during a year. So wind has been -- and quite frankly, it was pretty strong for us in 35, our split -- in '23 our split last year was about 60-40; 40% being wins and I think it's going to be somewhat similar this year in '24, so that the market held. And we feel good about how we built our plan from a bottoms-up perspective. There's opportunity, we know there's going to be challenge in certain projects. So, we took some overall contingencies, but I do think as the year goes on, things will get better and there might be some projects that you get to add on in the second half of '24.

Thanks, Andy. Thank you.

Yeah. So, I guess, generally, right, when you think about industrial and civil to get it out of the way, backlog is pretty much set in those. We've -- we believe that in our backlog numbers, we have most of the burn required in 2024. There is some work that you're going to book and burn, but for the most part, we think we're sitting in a really good place relative to backlog versus revenue expectations. On the renewable side of the business, the reality is that, in our minds, right, the business is much better than what backlog shows. I think you're going to see considerable backlog build in Q1, I think you'll see considerable backlog build again in Q2, and that will give, in my opinion, at least the outside world that doesn't see our numbers day to day, the comfort that our '24 solidified. In our prepared remarks, we talked about that actually having a really positive impact for '25 because these projects actually have a similar, if not a little bit greater amount of volume activity in '25 than they do in '24 which I think positions us incredibly well for a really strong growth year in '25, but the good thing is we've identified them right. So even though they may not be in backlog, we know every project, we've identified it. We know when they're supposed to sign, most of it is under LNTP, if not all of it, but it's really about at the end of the day, getting into a signed contract and being able to work on it and that's what we hope to be able to deliver in the first and second quarter from a backlog perspective.

Yes, so look, on the first quarter, obviously, we're cheap in the first quarter. So, I think we've taken into account everything that we know as of today. Whether it was a little bit of an issue in certain geographic parts that impact -- that are impacting our first quarter, but it's really not much different than quite frankly what our expectation was coming out of our third quarter call. Maybe with the exception of the Illinois rate case and the impact that that's had on our Power Delivery business in Q1. Outside of that, I think everything is pretty consistent with our expectations. When we think about the second quarter and third quarter, and we do year-over-year comps. We have a pretty similar ramp to what we had last year from an earnings perspective, right. We expect earnings in the second, third, and fourth quarters to be above where they were in '23, but we don't expect any particular quarter to be dramatically above. So, I think margin profiles are going to be consistent with where they were generally last year and it's going to really be driven by the revenue expectations. Paul stated the second and third quarter are going to be our two biggest quarters and I think that we'll be able to show and it has moderate growth, right. So we're going to have a nice growth between the second and third quarters, very similar to last year. So, if you take last year's cadence, I think we're going to have a similar cadence in 2024.

Thank you.

Well. I think it's multiple things, one, I actually think that the gas side of the pipeline business is incredibly active, especially in certain geographic areas. I think you're going to see that materialize as the year goes on, just from -- some of that will be book and burn but I think we'll have a really strong year outside of MVP. And then when we think about '25, we see that continuing just based on the conversations we're having with customers. And then more importantly, we're starting to see real jobs on some of the other alternative types of pipeline builds, right, whether that be carbon capture, hydrogen, we think that becomes real in '25, we think that becomes meaningful. It probably changes the business, right, because it's -- I think that's going to be very consistent in nature for a long period of time. So I think the mix of our business, what we would call -- we view it more as a pipeline business, right. So, I think there's going to be more diversity in our business in '25, which is going to lead to some of that growth that we talked about. It's not specifically what we used to do, but it's a mix of what we're seeing in the future.

It is.

Thank you.

I think we're seeing it, right. If you look at, not to plug you, Neil, but you actually put out a note yesterday that listed a number of different utilities that had raised our CapEx here in the first quarter, I thought it was a thoughtful note, I thought it was important and reflective of what's really happening in the industry. And that's what we're seeing, right. Our customers are talking about it, our customers aren't just talking about it, but they're raising their CapEx dollars to deal with it. We don't think this is a short-term initiative. We think this is going to last for a really long time and we think we're just starting to see the beginning of it. So this is an incredibly exciting market to be in. Again, there has been some issues with the cadence of that spend over the course of the last year, but there's no question in my mind where the direction of that is going. From our perspective, we think we sit in a really good place. We've added an enormous amount of scale in that business and we think that's really going to start to pay off for us here and the next year or so. So we're really excited about what's happening in the industry and I think that generally, I think, people underestimate the capital requirements to meet the growing demand of energy use, that we're going to have over the coming years.

I think it's two things, I think one is wildfires and the other is storms and I think that when you think about the West Coast, they've been more impacted by fires, the East Coast has been more impacted by storms. The fixes for either one are somewhat similar. So, the investments in undergrounding systems, in hardening systems across the country become more and more meaningful as we deal with climate change. So I do think that -- those are -- the challenge right is who is going to pay for it and what's -- where the states stand in terms of funding these initiatives and where is the cost of power in a particular state and how willing is their Public Service Commission to grant the utility dollars to be able to do it. We're based here in Florida and in Florida there has been a huge initiative in the state, the Public Service Commission has passed a 30-year program with tens of billions of dollars of funding to allow the utilities here to do that. I think we're going to see more of that as time goes on. I think it's necessary. And I think it's going to be meaningful across the country, in addition to what's happening with load growth, right. This helps offset -- these investments help you manage some of the issues that are going to come with load growth but they are different and they both need to be dealt with. So these are all catalysts and positive trends that we're going to see in this industry for a long time.

Thanks, Neil.

Thanks, Adam.

Just that wireless win, right. That contract by itself should allow us to grow double-digits for the full segment next year.

Improving margins, right, so if we go back a few years, at scale our business has been declining or when you think about our wireline business over the course of last year, it declined, that's challenging for margins. There's obviously a start-up phase where we invest in the business, which is kind of baked into the margin profile that we're expecting for '24, but with scale, right, the incremental revenue comes at a higher margin. And that's going to drive margins up. So, that's a really important part of our '25 and beyond story as well.

Thanks, Adam.

Sure, so we -- I mean, we actually started that business, I don't know, now maybe 10, 12 years ago, really focused on the transmission side, that's where we started. We did some big projects. Wanted to get into the more predictable cadence of the business. So, we really started focusing on distribution. Our efforts in 2021 and '22 through the acquisitions that we made were really to expand our geographic scope. The primary nature of those acquisitions was also heavy MSA, heavy distribution, although they all add transmission resources available. I think since those acquisitions have made. We've really grown and added to our transmission capabilities in terms of talent and capabilities, and I think today, we're in a position where we've done some jobs here in the last two years that are of size and scale and I think we've really positioned ourselves to be a significant player in that market for a long time. Again, in our prepared remarks, we talked about a number of jobs that we're currently bidding that we feel comfortable and good that we'll be successful on some and have a meaningful impact to our business. So it's -- that's probably going to be the biggest growth part of our Power Delivery business over the next couple of years. There is an incredible amount of demand across the country and there's more coming. So, it's an important part of where we're trying to take that business.

I think it's actually part of the same comments with scale. So, I think we're actually seeing it in all of our businesses, right. We see it in the award of our biggest customer in wireless and communications. We're seeing it with some of the utilities. We did talk about nice awards in our utility business of markets where we feel some of our customers consolidated their vendors. We're seeing it in the Clean Energy space where developer's large utilities are using less vendors for the renewable projects portfolios on a go-forward basis. So, we think as projects get bigger, as consolidation happens across our customers as well. People tend to want to work with less partners and we think that's a really important part of the story. We think scale matters, we think we've built great scale and our customers believe in the scale capabilities that we have and we do think that's a really important part of what's going to make companies successful in the future. And that's really what we've been building towards.

Thank you.

There was no other de-bookings. Obviously, we announced the issues with that project in the third quarter and the lifecycle project is on hold. So we've taken it out of backlog. It was a project that we've been working on. So, typically, once the project his backlog, usually we build it, there are very few instances where we've had to take anything out of backlog, obviously lifecycle was its own -- had its own issues. When we think about comps, a portion of it is in backlog. I think that, again, we're not expecting significant impact from that until the latter part of the year and again that's -- our backlog is, we only take the 18-month view. So, there is a component for that, but it's a relative -- we think a much smaller component than what the actual award means over the long term.

So, I'd say a couple of things. Exelon was -- is our fourth largest customer at MasTec. So it's not all in Illinois, but it's -- a good chunk of it is. They have a meaningful cut for '24. We originally talked about mid-single-digit revenue growth in this market for '24 versus what we're saying today and I think that entire drop is the impact. So if you want to call it $100 million, $150 million of impact in '24, that's kind of what we've built in, assuming we don't -- we're not able to -- really put those people on other work, which I think there's going to be an opportunity for. So again, we talked about it being somewhat of a conservative view, but that's our view today. So, we've kind of taken the entire impact that we expect in '24 completely out of guidance.

Thanks, Justin.

Yeah, look, it's a great question. One, obviously as '23 played out and even a little bit into early '24, we're still working on our contracts that were won a while ago. Obviously, everybody knows the challenges that have existed with supply chain. So, as you're working on older projects, those businesses sometimes it has negative impact to margins. Historically and even as we look at our '23 performance, our wind's margins significantly outperformed our solar margins, that has everything to do with the fact that we've been deploying for a long time and we're a lot newer to solar. We've got a ton of opportunity to increase our solar margins which we need to do and we need to accomplish. I think that's going to be the bigger driver of the margin growth over time. But wind margins quite frankly are holding with what we've historically done. So, as the wind market comes back and as that becomes a bigger driver of revenues. We do think that the margin profile there is considerably at least from our performance perspective, considerably better. If you go way back, we used to -- there were years where this business performed at double-digits solar segment, a lot of that was driven by wind. We're seeing similar margin potentials in some of those projects on a go-forward basis. We've got to get our solar business there over time, which is what we're working on, obviously, the solar business is what's going to grow faster. So, we're encouraged, '23 again was a tough year. We're going to have ups and downs in '24, we kind of built that into our model, but I really think that our focus today is on executing these projects and driving margins out-of-the business and our goal, our objective is really to increase those margins over time.

Thanks.

Hi, Min.

I think each segment is different. I think in some segments, quite frankly, we're almost there. I think one of the really important things is customers recognize it right, they talk about it. They don't necessarily feel it yet, because they know they're still flex in the system, but everybody knows we're going to get to that point. I think coming out of '24 into '25, across all of our segments, we going to fuel some of that. Some more than others and, I do think that at that point, it does start impacting, what we do with customers, how we talk about it, and how we price things.

Thanks, Min.

Just want to thank everybody for participating today and we look forward to updating you on our first quarter call here in short period of time. Thank you.