Joseph Lacher
Kemper Corporation (KMPR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Happy to, Greg. This is Joe, and I'll take a shot at it and then Brad and Matt may add some pieces. The first thing I'd suggest to you is almost ignore the reciprocal in the thought process. There's a couple of big things moving. We made an underwriting profit in the quarter. We've got significant unearned rate coming in, which has us highly confident we'll hit our target margins and we will begin reversing some of the non-rate actions we took to improve profitability that will consume some of that unearned rate, some of those rate – those non-rate actions included tightening new business underwriting restrictions. So we will re-expand those to where they were, and that will allow us to put new business on, move back towards the process of growing and that rebalancing, if you will, is really the reversal of those items and going back to that more normal maintenance rate.

We're going to start doing that across all geographies, all distribution lines, the entire ecosystem as briskly as reasonably possible. It won't occur on a day, it won't occur in a minute, but it will take a little bit of time and it'll work its way through. Regardless of whether we're dealing with it on Kemper paper or on the exchange or anything else, we're going to do that.

As a separate and distinct item, we are working on rolling out the reciprocal. That process will in and off itself go a little bit slower. What we have to do in those cases is get products filed and approved in individual states in the exchange entities or in its subsidiaries in order to move that new business in. We might in some cases use some reinsurance from where Kemper fronts moves in. But really that will be a pace that's more measured by the approvals on those individual states for that activity to occur and less a function of us restoring and rebalancing our underwriting criteria.

So I think mentally you should think about them differently. That rebalancing can occur more briskly. You'll see it occur over – significantly a bit over the first quarter and more significantly over the second quarter. The reciprocal population pace will be necessarily slower because of the regulatory nature of those approvals. Does that help?

Correct. The cost savings, none of them were related to business acquisition, forward items and the like, all of them were more back office or infrastructure-related.

They do not in any way shape or form impair our ability to write new business or to grow.

So I'm going to make a broad comment that's not precise. Broadly, we view our rates as adequate as we move to hit these margins. And that is a bit of a forward-looking view, recognizing the rate that is to be earned in. By nature, as you look at forward inflation, we're going to go back to where we have maintenance rate. So if we file rate for that maintenance perspective, that means we think there's an additional rate need we need to take it. That's sort of an ordinary course. So there's a perpetual, if you will, modest maintenance rate need that works its way through.

When you go into individual cells and individual geographies, there's always a combination of the rating factors, the local geography, the line mix, the underwriting mix where some things are more or less adequate. And so there's always some part of the rating cells that we don't – we're not satisfied with or some that we think, we're more than satisfied with. So we've got a mix of those. I think there's ample opportunity as we've restored our underwriting profitability and get that confidence of hitting target margins. There's ample opportunity for us to re-expand our new business to get back to more traditional new business levels and more traditional growth levels over several quarters.

You could think of it as both Greg. We'll hit it for the full-year.

That's correct. When you look at – I think you're looking back at Q3 slide deck, you're looking transitioning from Q3 to Q4 about 7 points. It'll accelerate a little bit as we enter 2024, and then it'll level off. So you expect a steeper curve here in the first half of the year and kind of leveling off in the back half of the year. Andrew, does that help with what you're thinking, how you're modeling?

That’s correct. So to think about that – Andrew, remember to think about that from the fourth quarter through 2024, and so we've already earned some of that. Now you have what's remaining in 2024.

I think the way to think about it – if I can add to that, Matt. The underlying frequency we're seeing that's environmental was on the low side of what we would think of from a seasonal perspective. And I completely agree with Matt, we're going to see some things in our actuals that are a function of our mix that'll move up and down, I think the most important and that's normal and it's expected and it's in our pricing.

I think what you're really looking for is the underlying question. And we saw the fourth quarter within at least our version of seasonal, but it was at the low end of the seasonal expectation. And then maybe to wrap up on this, Andrew, just to one last comment for you. Elevated, as Matt alluded to mid-to-high single digits or 5% to 7%. Elevated means, where it was historically from 3% to 5%. Now remember, elevated and stable is fine for us. We can price to that and we have done so. So that shouldn't be a worry to you from a modeling standpoint. I just want to highlight that for you.

We're looking at each other, Andrew. I'm going to answer your question in two ways. I think that would be a reasonable way to think about it. I think if I were doing the modeling, in my head, I'd stop and I'd go, okay, there's frequency and severity that generate loss inflation, there's earned rate that's coming in, that will more than offset it. If I only looked at those two items, I would then be projecting a very, very significant profit margin increase.

And if you only looked at those items, you would miss the fact that we've said we're taking off some of the non-rate actions we put on during the pandemic or the early phase of the recovery that restricted new business and they tightened underwriting. They were there to improve profitability, but they also restrict growth. As we take those off, there is an earned rate cost to them. That's why we put them on is because they had an – they had the effect of a positive earned rate earlier. As we take them off, you will not see the full impact of the earned rate running through the P&L. So we're trying to give you a little more guidance towards target margins, and you're going to have to put some model in of what that non-rate is to get the PIF growing again, we have to take those off and let the PIF move in. So some of that earned rate will go there. You will get, if you're worried about 1 or 2 or 3 points of frequency and that's your primary focus, you will miss the forest through the trees because of the non-rate actions that are reversing.

We gave a range, right, $150 million plus. What I would tell you is we're always going to be looking to optimize our cost structure. We want to be a low cost provider in the industry in the non-standard space and sell life insurance at affordable cost. So we're always looking to optimize it. I would expect us to take out some additional costs as we move forward. But we're not going to – as I mentioned in my comments, we're not going to continue to updating on it because we believe, we've achieved our objective and what you're going to see from here is incremental.

Sure. And I'll provide some and then Matt, I'm sure will have some adds to it. I'll make it maybe an overall comment in two spots. We clearly had profitability issues and ours might have been more exacerbated than some because of our – the high volume of business we had in California and the delay that California had in – the delay that California had an incoming in rate. So what we did is we had to push harder on some of those non-rate actions. What that effectively is, is it means, it's restricting underwriting in some cases. It might be lowering commissions. It might be tightening up pay plans, any number of things. Where we are right now is a pretty hard market. What a hard market characteristic wise typically means is there is less availability.

Most competitors have tightened their underwriting. Most are doing something similar, trying to enhance profitability. And as a result, your typical agent has fewer product offerings and fewer choices and less availability than they've historically had. As we come back in and we have the ability to do it fairly briskly, those distributors don't think that we did something idiosyncratic. They don't think that we were the only one who had a problem, we haven't damaged a relationship, we haven't broken something, we can come back into that environment and they're happy, they're happy to have the capacity returning because they're looking for capacity.

So we have a high degree of confidence in the relationships. We have a high degree of confidence that there's market demand. Our relative price competitiveness was strong before we went into this disrupted environment. We dealt with the same inflationary environment everybody else did. So we think we applied comparable, competitive responses to the inflation. So we think we'll be competitive on the backside, and that's what we're expecting to see as we open the markets.

I would tell you, and I'm going to answer it in two ways. We're starting to see some modest impacts in what I'd see are some of the pieces of the loss costs. As we've said before, we're not reflecting those in our loss picks yet because we want to let them fully age, fully bake, see if things reopen and we will continue to adopt that posture to have a higher degree of certainty that it's actually materializing before we reflect it. I tend to then be generally cautiously optimistic about what we're seeing in the environment and a little more prove it to me in terms of how we book it, if that helps.

Again, thank you to everybody for your time and your attention today, your thoughtful questions. We're excited candidly about moving back more towards a rebalancing phase where we're spending more time talking about growing PIF and leveraging a competitive advantage in the marketplace, and we look forward to future discussions in the next couple of quarters. Thanks, again.

