Joseph Nolan
Eversource Energy (ES) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Good question, Shar. Thank you. I would start off by saying that Aquarion, we view Aquarion as a very valuable and attractive asset portfolio, company is well managed, well recognized as a water distribution company and its leadership. So we're -- based on that fact pattern, we've sized and we've estimated what we feel we could harvest from a potential sale. And just to be clear, the $1.3 billion is up to $1.3 billion of equity over the next several years. So we have some flexibility, so we can flex that depending on the ultimate proceeds that we received.

Yes. Sure, Shar. It's Joe. I'll take that. I'll tell you, I'm really, really proud of the work that's taken place on South Fork. It's been an opportunity for us to really dry run, get a sense as to what's involved in this installation. This is a 12 turbine installation. We have 11 out in the lease area now, the 12th one is loaded on the barge in New London. It will go there this weekend. We have been delivering power since November to folks in Long Island which we're very, very proud of.

So given that we are the first upscale offshore wind farm in the United States, that brought a great opportunity for us to be able to understand what's involved in that. So in the fall, we were able to take a real good look at the cost, all the charges associated with constructing South Fork, as we begin to kind of refresh the Revolution costs. And I will tell you that we have accounted for the vessel strategy that we have to utilize now, we're utilizing a feeder barge [indiscernible] European vessel. It's been going very, very well. Those are some of the big charges. Those are the things that have caused increases in offshore wind costs for everybody, not just us.

The lack of American vessels is certainly going to be a challenge for anyone in this business. But I will tell you that we have successfully executed. We will have -- the project will be done in March in South Fork. All of the kind of lessons learned, all of the challenges, everything that we've experienced in this offshore wind market, associated with South Fork has been brought to the table on Revolution. So that we know exactly what this is going to cost. We feel very comfortable with this number, this exposure at $240 million given what we have already factored in. So I have a great deal of confidence that we will be able to bring this in and not have to worry about these -- in the overruns.

Yes. Well, let me add a couple of things. I'm not going to give you a time line on the asset yield but I will tell you that it's a very different animal, Aquarion. I mean we're talking about wind partnership with another party. We only own 50%. We talked about the fact that it's very challenging and you don't own the entire asset. We own all of Aquarion. It makes things a lot less complex. This asset is very, very attractive. We've been in this business now for several years. It's a great business. It's the seventh largest water company in the country. But the fact of the matter is there are 50,000 water companies in the country. So to try to do -- to assemble water companies. It takes time, it takes effort but something of this magnitude certainly is attractive to many, many folks. So I won't give you a time line but I will tell you that it's not nearly as complex. It's not even in the same category of the wind assets. So I feel very, very good about it.

Yes. So Angie, this is Joe. The court case was heard. We felt that the -- it went very well. We do expect a decision in the next few months. And our expectation is that it would go back to PURA. It will have no impact on our ability to transact. So we're still -- we're very, very confident in that case in the outcome.

Yes. No, we've had communication with the governor. I did talk to the governor and I let him know of this transaction. As you know, it's quasi-judicial Board, the PURA and there's certain things they can and can't talk about. So we're trying to be very mindful of that.

It's been -- it's already been baked in the transaction. That's what -- that's a portion of the impairment which would allow them to be able to get the return that they expect. So that's already been factored in that -- that was accounted for.

And whatever we put in comes back to us. It's not as if we're going to be out of any money.

Sure. I mean would be all resolved at COD. At COD, our contingent liability is resolved. We plan to have the Revolution project in service in the fall of 2025. So that should be the timing you should be thinking.

Well, the equity issuance is a multiyear program. So it wouldn't be anything, it would be right, it's still the same window of time that we're talking about. John?

No, it's -- the process has not started. It's going to -- last night, we kicked it off and it will be -- we'll get to work on it as soon as this call is over.

Yes. No, no, great question. So we're actively involved in the land-based portion of that construction. I've been down in Rhode Island. I've been with Governor McKee, we broke ground on the substation, the conduit work that runs from the point of entry from the ocean to the substation. We will play a very, very active role. And I think that having a seat at the table is important for all the reasons that you stated. So we will continue to play that role until such time as that project is in commercial operation.

Thank you, everybody.