Joseph Hogan
Align Technology, Inc. (ALGN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Elizabeth, it's Joe. We felt good about China last year. But remember, we had year-over-year comparisons that were really favorable because of the COVID shuts down over there last year. But overall, as we exited the year, we felt good about our performance there, and we feel good about as we move into 2024 about our competitive position there in -- a China market that I think is a little more predictable because it's not the overhead that we've seen with COVID over the last, really, several years.

Jeff, the easy answer and the quick answer is yes. I mean it's just a brand-new platform. Now we set up -- I mentioned in my script about we have 100,000 units out there that we've sold so far. About 1/3 of those are 5D pluses, which are upgradable by just wand switch out. This is the way we've designed Lumina. And so that part's easy. Also, we've been really aggressively upgrading our installed base between E1 and E2 out there too to better position it for this kind of a move. So as we develop Lumina, we had exactly in mind what you just questioned, and we think we're in a good position to do that.

There's no charity here at Align. There will be a charge.

Jon, I like the way you set that up. It's a ramp, it really is. But we feel good that we can play offense with these product lines. Now we still have to scale IPE. We have a great team that knows how to scale, and we'll get through that. Obviously, Lumina is a completely different set of outside of the computer itself. The wand itself is we feel good about the scale part of that as we sell through the marketplace. But overall, I think the way you described it is a ramp of this new technology really beginning in 2024 is a good foundation for that kind of thought process.

It really is just too...

Jon, your question about the ramp up, the margin piece or part of that, what's that mean in 2025 or whatever. Look, we feel confident, and as you know from our discussions and our analyst presentation last year is 3D printing is foundationally, it can be less expensive as we scale. And so I mean, we'll start to see that come through as we scale that. But we need time to scale this. No one's ever had this polymer before that has a scale. No one's ever used the Cubicure system to the degree that we need to use it. Now we did this with 3D systems years ago because we basically scaled those systems through our team and team knows how to do that. I just can't tell you specifically within those in the next 1 to 3 years, with this being the first year, exactly when that really hits that hyperbolic side.

Brandon, Joe again. On the Lumina side, remember, our restorative scanner for GPs comes out in the third quarter. But as like John indicated, we indicated, we feel we can sell that into the market now with the capabilities it has, but that will ramp in -- that will probably be more hinged to the regulatory approvals we have to get around the world. Right now, as I mentioned, we only have the United States and Canada and ANZ. Secondly, on IPE, it's the same thing is we're regulatory constrained. We still have to go through Europe. And as I mentioned, IPE will come out in the second quarter in Australia and also. And as we gave that, obviously, we'll be scaling IPE too and understanding the dynamics around that. So it's more of a ramp, as I mentioned a few calls ago than anything.

Jason, I'll take the first part of your question and hand the rest off to John, is we feel we're on a more stable, I'd call it, economic platform than last year. And so the adult and teen question that you had is we expect that to carry through in 2024, as we indicated with our guidance, too. So when I look back, everybody has a clear vision backwards than forward, we look back to last year, a pretty unstable platform that we experienced for the year and the third quarter was a tough one in that sense. But I think we all see it right now, we have more confidence that at least we're dealing with stability from an economic standpoint in most parts of the world from what we see.

You can always say that at Align, there's no single variable equations. And this is another one. The Teen Guarantee, we think is some of it, obviously, our portfolio and how we put that together, our DSP programs, the uniqueness of Invisalign First. All those things really help. And from an adult standpoint, with the firmer economic platform I talked about, I just think there's more confidence out there that we're starting to see lead through.

Michael, it's Joe again. I think the best way to describe it to you, it's -- like I said in my script, it's a 1- to 3-year journey. And obviously, we'll -- we know how to make these aligners now. We understand how to do it. It's just a scalability of resin in the Cubicure process and that takes time. And we'll obviously report on it quarter by quarter. So you really understand where we're going and what the hurdles are and what the opportunities are.

I mean obviously, the scale, you look at retainers first because units of one. And that's why you'd end up with comprehensive full cases in some way. And that's basically how we'll ramp.

Ann, on the DTC customers, we've always argued that, that wasn't our marketplace in the sense of the price point and all. But I mean, obviously, these patients will pursue treatment. Now probably more so for doctors than DTC. And we're just doing what we can in order to support those customers going forward. But again, as I was clear in my script, we're a doctor-focused client company, and we'll keep it that way. But we do see this as being a certain opportunity. It's just hard for us to quantify right now.

On the DSO relationships, I'd say this has gotten stronger all around the globe. Two to call out would be Heartland and [indiscernible] being more new ortho side and Heartland being more on the GP side. But we have really good relationships and we leverage our portfolio well with them to help them grow and we grow with them. So I feel good about our position with DSOs, and we have good strong relationships out there with them.

Yes. I can't -- I really wouldn't break it out between Americas and International because we felt good about the geographies in general as you went across the world for especially latter half of the fourth quarter of last year. As we go into this year, as I talk about, we're looking at, I think, a stable economic platform. Some of the data that you cited would support that overall. And we feel good about our new products. We think we can play offense. And that's what we're focused on right now.
