Julian Francis
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (BECN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks for the question, Ryan. I’m glad you asked that clarification. In the first quarter, what we’ve got is, as we mentioned we’ve got 11 greenfields that we opened in the fourth quarter. Obviously, we don’t get the full gross margin benefit of those. So that’s a piece of it. That’s a drag in the first quarter. We would expect those to improve through the year and get better as we fully ramp them up and get their product mix right. So that’s a piece of it.

Similarly, with our acquisitions, particularly with some of the more recent ones, we’re working very carefully on driving the performance that we expect. But some of our larger acquisitions, apart from coastal that’s now included in our continuing results. Some of the newer acquisitions we’ve yet to fully synergize because they were done later in the year and they were a little bit larger than others we’d done previously. So they’re having more of an impact early on in the year. And again, we expect to see that improve year-over-year.

Also, as we start to come out, if you look back beyond the last couple of years, which have been a little bit odd in terms of price carryover and inventory profits, we’ve returned to a sort of more normal seasonality. And so we normally would see a lower margin – gross margin in the first quarter of the year. That’s a more typically seasonal basis that we recover through the rest of the year as the mix shifts more towards the residential side.

So to answer your question relatively succinctly, it’s mostly on improvements in what we have. And then the other piece of it would be a more typical selling season as we get more into sort of the shingle reroof area the margins go up. So it’s just a more normal pattern of behavior. We’re not relying on other elements. But thanks for the clarifying question.

Thanks for the question. I’d be happy to do that. So a couple of things I think were very evident to us throughout the fourth quarter, and I’ll split it into residential and commercial. Residential remained strong. The season stretched out a little bit, despite some cold weather. We saw contractors on the residential side working through, particularly in the western half of the country. Obviously, we’d seen significant storms out west last year and I think there was a real opportunity for people to get some of that work done and so residential demand held up through most of the fourth quarter.

What we did see on the residential side was Florida came down hard after Hurricane Ian sort of roll off. You could see the difference kind of going into the – a little bit in the third quarter, but certainly in the fourth quarter, but the impact of Hurricane Ian was clearly done.

So those two impacts, they weren’t offsetting the storms in the west were significantly greater. And so we continued to see some really good demand. And quite honestly, we expect to see that rolling into the start of 2024 on the residential side, which is very encouraging and also why we wanted to maintain our workforce through the winter. Because we’ve seen the demand on the residential side, particularly when we have reasonably warm days in February, we’ve seen the demand be particularly good. So, we’re excited about that side.

Switching to the commercial volumes. I think what we were convinced of in the fourth quarter was kind of the rebound we saw in the commercial business. And we think that a lot of that is just the lapping, some of the contractor destocking that I don’t think we really captured in fourth quarter of last year, but was sort of evident in our numbers in the fourth quarter of 2023. So commercial volumes were good. We believe that the market’s solid.

There’s a few headwinds out there, interest rates not being the least of them in terms of new projects. So, we think that that will move the commercial low slope roofing business a little bit more towards the repair and replacement than the new side. Obviously, the numbers we see in Q1, Q1’s destocking last year was significant. So we’re seeing significant uptick in volumes year-over-year in Q1. But obviously that’s not sort of market related. That’s more distribution and probably manufacturing related as opposed to total market because of the destocking that was so prevalent in the first quarter.

I think the other thing I’d touch on is the growth in some of the waterproofing business as well. That’s been very attractive for us, and we’re seeing a shift there away from new commercial construction, also to the repair and replace, which I think is a really underappreciated part of it. When you think of codes that are starting to be written around waterproofing, not just in coastal areas, but all across the country, we’re starting to see the renovation of waterproofing become something that’s really important to the code writers, but also to the buildings themselves, obviously.

So exciting things there. So we think drawing conclusions from that, coming into the first of the year, we expect to get off to a decent start to the year. A little bit of pressure on gross margin. We’ve got higher OpEx in the first quarter, but we are absolutely ready for March, April, May, and the second quarter of the year.

Yes. I’ll add kind of a high level sort of working theory of what we believe, and then I’ll let Carmelo add some color. As we said, we do expect to have higher OpEx in Q1, mainly because we did not winterize the branches as much as we would normally do, because of the scarcity of labor and our full belief that we’re going to get off to a really good start to the year once the season breaks out and we get away from the cold, wet weather into sort of a more normal climate pattern, we’ll start to see that.

We’ve continued to invest in what we believe are growth enhancing initiatives. So we believe that that’s still important for us to continue to do. So as we look at the key initiatives we have, and particularly as we think about greenfields and M&A. Obviously greenfields, you staff up first before you have any sales. We have to bring the branch managers in. We have to bring the drivers in, the warehouse people, the salespeople. So obviously, OpEx grows ahead of those greenfields. And obviously, we just announced that we’d sort of committed to around 25 new branches. So there’ll be additional OpEx coming in throughout the year as we build out new capabilities there. And then some key initiatives that we want to get done this year. I mean, we’re getting really close to achieving the goals that we laid out in Ambition 2025. And we’ve seen the investments we’ve made in these initiatives really pay off over the last couple of years. And so we certainly don’t want to dial that back just yet. But I’ll let Carmelo add a little bit of color.

Yes. I mean, we’ve factored in that price increase Garik in terms of what we’ve forecast going forward. I mean, the big question, I’ll tell you, I don’t want to be too aggressive in terms of forecasting out. So I mean, we don’t know what the execution is going to be like. So we’re encouraged by it. We’ve announced our own price increase on top of the manufacturers. So we certainly expect to recover the cost and hold on to gross margin. But we will – we do believe that it’s warranted. We’re watching the commercial side closely. That’s an area where with a slightly weaker demand, the destocking from the contractor level, volumes of the manufacturers and distributors are likely to be up this year. But we’re watching the overall end market demand there. So we’re feeling pretty good.

We do think we’ll get some benefits in probably the second quarter from inventory profits as we go up and watch our weighted average cost of goods come in. Obviously, that will roll off probably in mid-third quarter. But overall we’re expecting it to be relatively neutral. I’d love to see some opportunity elsewhere. And I think the longer-term piece is we’re starting to roll out our new pricing model, and that’s – that won’t have a lot of impact in the first half of the year, but we hope to expect to see some impact from that in the second half of the year as well. So hopefully we’ll see some good opportunity to improve on our overall numbers this year as well.

You snuck in two questions there, David, but I’ll be happy to do that. So first of all, on the insurance, look, this is part of our theory about our business is that if you need a roof, you’re going to figure out how you get a roof. If the insurance pays a portion of it or it pays all of it. If you need a new roof, you’re going to get all of it.

And this is the core piece of our model. I think many, many contractors and certainly distribution, we offer financing through a partner. So the ability to get the money to finance a roof one way or another is there. So while I think it puts a little bit of strain on homeowners in terms of cash position, what happens is that it’s not the roof that they decide that they’re not going to do, it’s other things. So it’s less about roofing in that situation.

So we don’t think ultimately it creates challenges for the roofing business. We think that it’s one of the great things about the roofing business that it really is non-discretionary and people will find ways. And there is financing out there, customers balance sheets, consumer balance sheets are strong, so they’re able to – they’re able to borrow. So that’s the first part.

The second part, regarding you verify, I’d mentioned this on a prior earnings call, maybe two or three quarters ago, we were asked specifically about the rule in Florida, and I’d say we did see an impact in the immediate aftermath of that. Not so much on our business, obviously, we follow the verified programs, but we did see some activity in Florida decline. We believe a lot of that came back over probably a five, six month period.

We think that in general, the contractors found ways to mitigate some of the losses that you saw in Florida. So broadly, I think we’re going to find ways to figure out some of the labor tightness. Look, fundamentally, I don’t believe that the labor challenges we face is necessarily going to be solved by more labor. I think it’s got to be driven by efficiencies, productivities and that’s really what we’re working on for our customers. If we can deliver on time and save them time, if we can do roof loading in those markets that require it, we save them time. So we’re working very hard to find ways to enable our contractors with better services.

Dave, thank you for the question. It’s a great question, and we’ve worked very hard to mitigate the downside of the new model. So we have – we committed during our Ambition 2025 Investor Day presentation to 50 basis points improvement through a better pricing model. And we’ve been really diligent in terms of implementing that. We have begun rollouts in several trial markets to make sure that we’re getting the right implementation.

We’re seeing good traction with our people, which is probably the most important thing in the early rollout. Difficult to pick out exactly the impact we’re having on pricing in such a short period of time. But I’m very, very pleased with the fact that the usage of the tool that we are implementing has been very high. The adoption rate is good, and I was also concerned not just about the adoption, but the abandonment rate. So people going away from it, and I think that’s been pretty good. It is still early.

So we’re not going to get through the bulk of the launch until probably through the end of the third quarter. We do expect, and we continue to commit to that 50 basis points of run rate, and we do think we’ll be seeing that come through. I have no reason to doubt it right now. I’ve been very pleased with the execution. We’ve been incredibly diligent about making sure that this isn’t disruptive to our people or to the market. It’s just our ability to respond better to inbound information. And the scale that we have, the information we have, the data that we have coming in, because of the size, we believe that we’re getting much better market intel that we can feed into our model and deliver better results.

So, you won’t see a tremendous impact this year, maybe a little bit in the fourth quarter, but I would expect us to be sort of up and running the beginning of next year and ramping up, and we still are committed to at least 50 basis points of margin improvement for the whole company.

Appreciate it. Thanks for your questions.

Thank you, Victoria. Once again, we thank you all for your interest in Beacon. 2023 was a truly inspiring year for our team. We’ve set records across the board, including record stock prices, and I’m thrilled that we continue to be able to deliver on our Ambition 2025 goals. And with that, thank you. Good night.