Jure Sola
Sanmina Corporation (SANM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, most of our inventory adjustments is really across the communications side of the business, 5G, some networking product, but that's mainly adding with a few customers. The rest of the markets, as you can see, in industrial, medical, defense and automotive basically came in flat. We see some minor adjustment there, but nothing major like what we see in the communications side.

Not really. I mean we have a few projects there, but most of our stuff was with the industry leaders in electrical vehicle.

I would expect it to have -- well, first of all, we had a great year down there, operations performed excellent. We do expect to see some pretty good growth in '24, and I will say we are positioned end of '24, '25 to grow a lot.

Well, first of all, let me make a comment about -- back to the margins. As you see, we delivered a respectable margin this year. We believe we can do better. I think the short term, I would say, operating margin will be in the range of 5% to 6%, even with the revenue being down. But we're going to continue to tune up and position the company as we know market is going to come back as we position the company for a lot of growth. As we start shipping more and some -- we know that in last year, we indi done better, let me put it that way. There's some room for improvements. As we look at the '24 and the '24, '25, we have a lot of upside, and we think our margin should be over 6%. We have a proven record on that, and we'll do it. Back to communication, type of communication market and margins we do is, we delivered respectable margins there, Anja. We are focused there on really high performance, both in the networking side, in a storage side and also the routers. So we're well positioned there. Unfortunately, I think our customers grow draw more inventory. We finally realized there's more inventory in the pipeline than we realized. So there will be some correction going on. But the long term, I think we'll be okay.

Okay. Anja, as you know, in the last 3 years, as you covered us, we take 1/4 time. I think the short term, definitely, we see inventory being resolved in the next 6 months, hopefully sooner. But definitely, I think inventory will get resolved based on what we see today. So definitely, we're going to see some pickup in second half because of that. Unless the economy falls off the cliff, based on my customer forecast, I think there should be some upside across all our markets, especially in the second half. So -- and based on some of these new programs, that we're working, so there's 3 things that we're looking at, we expect to grow. We definitely expect to grow long term. But we'll take 1 quarter a time, Anja.

We're expanding logo, but most of the big wins are with existing customers, but we have a fair amount of new logos, Anja, that that have a lot of potential, but probably that's more end of the '24, '25 because it takes some time to give this program up. So yes, we have an upside potential in defense and aerospace side of the business. I think alternative energy has a lot and cloud infrastructure and optical packaging in that area, I think, there's a lot about that. Also, Anja, I just want to remind in my prepared statement, I said, hey, we have a goal internally to grow this company a lot bigger than what we are today. And our -- as I mentioned, we -- in the next 3 years, we expect to be in the range $10 billion to $12 billion. So we are focused on growth, but we're going to make sure it's the most profitable growth.

Well, we do business in that segment with all the market leaders, Christian. As you know, we let our customers speak for themselves. But yes, I will say majority of the customers in that segment have a little bit extra inventory. And I think what happened there, Christian, is that when there was the shortages, I think there was more inventory driven by end customer and our customers. So you had this pipeline that got filled up at a higher rate than I don't know if anybody in the industry really realized that how much inventory was in a pipeline. The good thing is that I'm seeing or at least what customers are telling us that this thing is going to empty and hopefully, next 6 months, and we'll go from there. But good thing, Christian, we didn't lose any customers or any programs. Actually, we won some programs in that side of the business, business being transferred from us and a couple of other -- I mean, another competitor to Mexico for us, but that transfer is going to be delayed for a few quarters. So -- but overall, we're still in a good position with those key customers for long term. It's a basically short-term scenario.

If you look at the market leaders in there, Christian, you know them better than I do. There's approximately 10 companies. And out of those, there are the 5 big ones and 4 or 5 smaller ones.

Well, it all depends how market turns. If demand is there -- first of all, we have capabilities and capacity to grow. So that's not an issue. And we are positioning the company -- we've been positioning the company for last 1.5 years to grow. That's why I just said it earlier, we had a major expansion for us. As you know, we don't throw money around unless we're going to grow, and we spend over -- we're actually spending right now. We're just finishing expansion in Thailand. We spend in Mexico for the growth of the projects that we want and the customers that will have a growth. So we're optimistic, and we -- that the second half will be better. It's hard for me to -- with all the stuff going on around the world, Christian, I think a smart thing for us is what I say our internal people. We only control what we can control is we can control what we do every day. So we're going to continuously stay on top of things that care of our customers but be aggressive as the demand comes back.

Well, ladies and gentlemen, again, thanks for your time, and I appreciate your patience with us. Again, we're excited about our future, and if we didn't answer any of your questions, please get back to us. With that, thank you, and we'll talk to you 3 months from now, I guess. Bye-bye.