Kabir Nath
COMPASS Pathways plc (CMPS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Patrick. Just checking if you can hear us and I'll hand it to Guy.

Thanks, Patrick. So, I'll work backwards from that question. We have not clearly guided on what we are going to expect to include in initial submission. That will be about a discussion with the agency. But as a reminder, with breakthrough designation, you can clearly envisage things like rolling submissions as well. To the first part of the question, as I said in my prepared remarks, this does not alter the potential timing of a filing. COMP006 remains on track for mid-2025, and we have always consistently guided that we do expect both trials to be needed to form [Indiscernible]. So no, we are not anticipating any change in the timing of potential submission.

I mean I think that the problem in the U.S. is simply the nature of the health care system is being simply more decentralized. This is in great contrast really to particularly European health care systems where usually health care records are extremely straightforward to access. For example, most patients in the UK have a primary care physician to get health records is simply a matter of contacting the physician with appropriate consent getting the record. So there's a great that's a tremendous difference from what we have to say for each day.

I think in terms of your second issue is about what was the second issue? So, in terms of the number of patients. Yes. I mean that issue relates -- I mean we think that we will be in a position having set up the systems that we now have to facilitate getting the data. The fact that 006 is taking place subsequent in most centers to 005 means that everything will really be running optimally by the time many of the U.S. sites switch to 006. The patients entered in ex U.S. of course are not subject to the problems anyway. And we think the proportion, I think you also requested, will be about fifty-fifty. And we can -- when we model it we think that this is we're on track as we said for 006. And the problems of 005 are really hard to do with the fact we started 005 first in U.S.

I mean, there are that represents -- the washout represents a challenge, but the most of the problem has been with the verification for diagnosis. So that's having 001, our Phase II trial, about a third of the patients in that study were already off antidepressant, so 2/3 required washing out and the majority -- great majority, were able to do so once they had been enrolled in the study. But it's enrolment that has been the issue in 005.

We are very comfortable with that. As you would expect, we've done a number of projections, looked at different scenarios, and we are very comfortable with the fourth quarter guidance.

It's a great question. So yes, clearly the protocol for Spravato is very different from what we envisage to be a final protocol for COMP360. So as a reminder, the Spravato label actually requires eight administrations in the first month, four in the second month and maintenance thereafter patients in physician discretion, but typically every couple of weeks. So, you can imagine therefore over the course of the first three months that something like 12 to 15 sessions, each of those requires the patients in the clinic for a minimum of really 3 to 4 hours given the intranasal administration and the two hours of monitoring. And by the way they can't drive a home afterwards, so it actually requires a caregiver for each of those as well.

In contrast, obviously, we don't yet know what the durability will be for, shall we say, a typical patient with COMP360 and the Phase III is designed ready to address that. But as we've said before, based on what we know, it perhaps might be 2 to 4 administrations a year for a patient. So you can see that from a patient perspective, that's a very, very different from center-to-center, it's the difference between using one room for a day, once every perhaps three to four months and actually having multiple uses of rooms during the course of time for [Indiscernible].

So we believe and we have a big part of the reason we've signed these collaborations with entities such as Greenberg and Hackensack and we'll do more is exactly to understand how we are going to integrate psilocybin differentially from Spravato into those workflows and think of how they address reimbursement.

Thanks. Yes. In a word that had and we've taken those mitigating actions. So, we have added specific vendors who are able with patient consent to work directly with patients and to obtain the medical record. So what we have seen is that that does enable us certainly in some circumstances to obtain those records much more quickly than going just through the motions ourselves or with our CRM. So yes, we have added specific paid for vendors, a couple of different ones in fact to enable that at the majority of sites.

So let me start, but I'll also ask Guy to weigh in on the third part of the question. So, to be clear, this does not in any way represent a change to the inclusion criteria nor in fact is this a change from what we needed to do in Phase IIb. But a couple of things to point out first obviously the Phase IIb was only partly in the U.S. It was ultimately a global study. Second, I think we do think it's relevant that Phase 2b 001 and 006 have three doses of active 110 and 25 whereas in 005 there is a real placebo and clearly from a patient willingness or a patient incentive to enrol, that is a significant difference between 005 and both 001 and 006. So I don't know if you want to add anything on that.

It's a great question. And what I would say is the work we're doing is precisely to understand how many different phenotypes of delivery, shall we say, that we're going to need. And so, if we take these first two, obviously, Greenbrook and Hackensack are very different. Greenbrook is a full profit network of interventional psychiatry centers that is essentially today offering TMS, Ketamine, Spravato, but very interested in offering psychedelics as well, but have only kind of recently grasped into I would say more traditional psychiatric treatment. And therefore, how this will fit they already have physical infrastructure for the delivery of these things. So working out what works for them in that context may be very different from someone like Hackensack, which is an integrated regional health system with multiple sites that currently have different specialisms, but also very large kind of tertiary care center with 300 beds which will probably going to be at the heart of where they will treat psychedelics.

So, I think the reason we are doing this and the reason we you will see a couple more collaborations again in very different settings of care. It's exactly so that we learn what sort of different delivery models are required. And that would extend also to reimbursement. I mean, for instance, you can imagine some commercial centers might be very open to buy and bill. They actually fit very well with their economics and offer an attractive route. Health systems and so on, it's much more likely to be Part B rather than Part B. But these are the questions we want to answer.

The way to think about it is they are deliberate. You know, obviously, there's a limit to the number we can do in this very pre commercial setting. And yes, they are designed to be sufficiently different that they can as we say allow us to develop template for them in when we get to formal pre-launch activities that we're lucky enough to get there, that we can then take those templates to other examples of the similar settings. And that's the way the plan has been built.

Yes. Thanks, Sumant. Great question. I mean there's a tremendous -- I mean there's a shared genetic origins for depression and anxiety and so they're closely related and most patients with depression have anxiety levels at least to some degree. We are as you've asked including anxiety measures specifically the GAD7 in our trials needed in 001 and we have published data on that already. So, we certainly see an antianxiety and anxiolytic potential with COMP360. But in many ways the presentation of anxiety is usually in primary care and we can't really see how COMP360 would be kind of the treatment of choice under those circumstances. And for that reason, we have not gone for that in the first instance. But clearly patients who have both depression and anxiety are probably the commonest phenotype around and we think that there will be an advantage in treating that population on the basis of their depressive symptoms, but incidentally treating their anxiety. I don't know whether you want to comment on the competitive difference.

So no, we're not it is exactly the same inclusion criteria. It is the same population. It is as I said in answer to an earlier question. I mean partly it is the fact that this is 100% U.S. and also I do think the nature of the arms of the study this being true placebo as opposed to both 001 and 006 that have three doses of active drug, I think that also is a contributing factor.

So yes, we will clearly be observing the regulatory process for Lykos very closely. We wish them well and I think it's clearly premature to see how they're thinking through commercial reimbursement. But obviously, we recognize that there will be lessons from that progress both through the regulatory and commercial basis for us.

That's an interesting question. What I will say is, in general, split indications are enormously challenging in my experience. If you could particularly if you can't clearly identify a very different dosing paradigm and so on. So that's not something we have given any great consideration to. Clearly, if somebody comes with a very compelling proposal, we would listen to it. But it's not in general, it's pretty hard with a single molecule in my experience.

Thanks, everyone, for joining. In conclusion, let me just say, again, our guidance for the overall timing of our Phase II program in TRD is unchanged. We are acknowledging and giving guidance around a slight delay into Q4 2024 for top line data from 005, but our overall guidance remains unchanged. We continue to be very focused on execution in TRD. And also as we said, continuing to think about which other indications of interest would be the most compelling places to take COMP360 there.

So thank you very much everyone. Thank you for your time and attention today. Thank you for your participation.