Karen Haller
Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. (SWX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Bill. Our 2023 results are evidence of the progress we continue to make executing our strategy and we are enthusiastic about 2024. On Slide 24, we are initiating our 2024 Southwest net income guidance to be in the range of $228 million to $238 million. We are confident that strong regional economic outlook in our service territories will drive 2024 results within these guidance ranges.

Recall that Rob indicated, we had more than $15 million of benefits to 2023 in net income that are not expected to recur in 2024, which you can see on the bottom of Slide 24. We expect to lose approximately $30 million in pre-tax interest income largely associated with the PGA balances as well as $6 million of COLI earnings at the midpoint of the range.

We are not expecting any further property write-downs in 2024 like the $5 million we saw associated with the sale of our old corporate headquarters in 2023. Additionally, as Rob also pointed out, we saw an $8 million out period adjustment early last year, related to net cost of gas sold that benefited 2023 earnings and is not expected to recur.

Higher expected average utility plant and service balances, along with higher amortization of regulatory assets is expected to drive higher depreciation and amortization expense, in 2024 and we expect higher pension expenses largely driven by the assumed discount rate change and slightly higher O&M. Other changes assumed are higher income from equity AFUDC driven by higher expected construction spending, and higher overall income and other general taxes.

As you can see on the slide, we expect a significant increase in gross margin driven by forecasted customer growth and a rate increase in Nevada, and all we expect these changes will provide for strong utility earnings in 2024. Partly due to expected customer growth at the utility, we are expecting 2024 utility CapEx to be approximately $830 million, which would be an increase over 2023 actuals of about $70 million.

While nearly 50% of our forecasted capital spending relates to maintaining a safe and reliable system for the benefit of all of our customers. Some of this increased 2024 CapEx, is a result of the responsibility we have to invest in our infrastructure, to meet the better-than-expected customer growth and favorable new business trends across our service territories, combined with the required investments we need to make to enhance the safety and integrity of the system. And part of the increase is driven by our continuous improvement initiatives, which we expect to lead to future cost savings at the utility.

Looking further out, we are also providing you with our expected compounded annual growth rate for net income of 10% to 12% from 2024 through 2026. While the impact of the regulatory cycle is expected to result in somewhat lumpy net income growth over that period, our regulatory strategy and our plan to achieve a flat O&M per customer trend over the same period, are expected to be important components of our growth story. Additionally, you can find the 2024 to 2026 drivers in the appendix of our presentation on Slide 30.

As Justin mentioned, our rate base compounded annual growth rate has increased to now be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the same 2024 to 2026 period and we expect to invest about $2.4 billion in total of CapEx over the next three years. Due to restrictions related to the IPO process, we are not providing any Centuri guidance.

Before we open the call up to Q&A, I want to point to Slide 25, and emphasize that our teams are focused on executing our strategic priorities, delivering strong financial results and providing exceptional service to our customers. At Southwest Gas Holdings, we are confident in our path forward as a premier pure-play natural gas utility. We plan to continue delivering steady organic rate base growth through strong regional demand dynamics, as well as earnings growth through financial discipline, operational excellence and constructive regulatory relationships.

We continue to advance towards the planned separation of Centuri to create a more attractive value proposition for stockholders and delever the business organically, with healthy cash flow generation.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions. As a reminder, we are not in a position to answer specific questions about the IPO process.

Yes we can. Good morning Richard.

And the optimization initiatives that we've talked about will help keep O&M flat and I think that will help us as well on that ROE and maintaining that as it goes forward. So, that's worked into our plan moving forward is to continue to execute on those optimization initiatives and keep O&M on a flat trend.

Thanks, Rich.

Yes. So I think obviously we've got -- just starting with some of the easier ones. The -- we've modeled a market discount rate on the pension. And obviously that contributed to about a $6 million decline from 2023. So certain assumptions like the impact of the interest rate environment on the pension. With that I will call your attention to the 10-K which we highlight changes we've made to the pension fund over this past year of going to a 50-50 allocation and putting a 90% overlay in place there to help dampened some impacts of potential forward interest rate movement.

But something like where interest rates ultimately had obviously there could be upside or downside from their rate case outcomes clearly. Although in Nevada we have settled kind of everything but the cost of capital which we can put a bandwidth around that could drive us upward in the range. The -- clearly we obviously model in a baseline on taxes if there were to be a tax change that could impact.

And then as we've discussed we are laser-focused on the cost management and we've modeled in a certain level of cost savings that obviously allows us to continue to achieve a flat O&M per customer growth rate over the forecast period. To the extent that we're able to accelerate more cost savings into the front couple of years of the forecast then that could clearly help on the CAGR as far as what we achieved by 2026.

And then overall just we do provide and obviously, I think, our cap structure is I think well understood at this point. But to a certain extent the other thing that can clearly impact is just the interest rate assumptions like how quickly the Fed moves on rates and while we don't have a lot of financing requirements, but we also generate some interest income from the cash certainly that were collected to the PGA this year. And so obviously, we've made assumptions around kind of the dot plot and whatnot around setting our guidance with respect to interest income. Does that help, Ryan?
