Keith Demmings
Assurant, Inc. (AIZ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

No, we're going to be picking up all of the loans and then all of the policies, but the placement rate on that particular block of business is just lower than the average. If you look at our current average, it's 1.8%. It'll be south of that, just the nature of the loans and the nature of the business.

But to the more fundamental point, really excited about the opportunity and many years in the making, and a huge congratulations to our lender-placed team for doing an incredible job building a relationship. And then obviously getting to this point is incredibly exciting and extremely validating.

And just one final thought. Modestly better in the quarter when you make the adjustment at 38%. But that's just normal seasonality, nothing we would really point to there, Mark.

Maybe I'll take that. And I think what I would say is, there's a handful of clients and deal structures where we're feeling the pressure on the underwriting results, which we've talked about. We've made significant rate adjustments over the last 18 months or so, with all five of these clients and feel really good about how we're positioned. The relationships are incredibly strong. To your point, our contracts are built with transparency. We've got very much aligned interests in terms of financial performance. So we put a lot of rate in, we'll continue to look at performance, obviously monitor claims activity.

I would say that we saw things level off in the fourth quarter, which is a good sign. We've stabilized severity in the business. And then, based on the nature of these service contracts, it takes a little longer for it to earn through than when you think about what happened within the housing, business. Those are annual policies. These are three, four or five, six year policies. So it's a little bit different from that perspective. But I would say we feel really well positioned and certainly see improvement in 2024, and that should continuing to flow through in 2025 and beyond.

I'll probably offer a couple of thoughts. Obviously, it's a pretty exciting development. We're super proud of the team in Australia. And it's a great example of leveraging our capabilities and our global reach. It's going to roll out in phases. We expect to launch in the first quarter, and then there's a number of different phases to the rollout. So it'll be, I would say, probably modestly EBITDA negative this year in terms of the investment to get that wrapped up. Obviously, I would expect it to be significantly improved certainly in 2025 – sorry, in 2025 over 2024.

In terms of the size and scale of investments, so one thing I would say, Tommy, there's quite a bit of investment going on with Assurant. Certainly, we talked about BofA, but even just on the lifestyle and connected living side, Telstra is one example. Obviously, we're talking about it publicly. But there are also a lot of other investments that we're making, building out capabilities. And we're in many, many discussions with different clients, different prospects, about rolling out new product, new services. So I would say we probably have more investment going on, even beyond Telstra, within connected living this year than we would in a normal average year.

When we talk about mid-single-digit growth for lifestyle, you could probably think about the investment, putting pressure on that by a few points. So it would be more in the high single-digit range, if we weren't making some of these – what for us are significant investments in the future.

Tommy, just to add a little bit more color on how I'm thinking about that. When you look at the overall guide for the year, we're overcoming $54 million of PYD in housing. And then, we don't have material tailwinds on investment income. It might be modestly positive, but not like what we saw this year. So, obviously, being able to deliver strong growth on top of those two factors, we feel really good about, along with the investments that I mentioned earlier.

We certainly stabilized Japan here, if we look at the last couple of quarters, Q3 and Q4 in terms of the overall financial performance. So we feel good about that. And I would say as we look forward to 2024, expect to see some modest improvement over time. And then, to Keith's point, longer term, still an exciting market for us.

No problem. All right. And that was the last question. Am I correct?

Wonderful. Okay. We will call it a wrap for today and we'll look forward to speaking to everybody again in May. And then, obviously, in the meantime, please feel free to reach out to our IR team who'll be happy to answer any questions that anybody has. But thanks very much, and we'll talk soon.