Keith Smith
Boyd Gaming Corporation (BYD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

No, Josh, I think between our prepared remarks, where we talked about a lot of this in Josh's comments, I think it summarizes it well. Nothing else to add.

So Carlo, I think you're right. I think that the first quarter, what we tried to lay out was a very challenging comp because of our record results last year. So, we will -- Q1 will be the most challenging quarter of the year. Customer trends, as we indicated in January and through the first few days of February, look a lot like Q4, which implies we haven't seen any significant impact as a result of the opening of Durango. Now, it's still early, the property has only been open 60 days, but we haven't seen any significant impact. So, [indiscernible] other than that, I think as you think about the rest of the year in the Locals market, absent some disruption from a room remodel of Gold Coast, which will have half of its rooms out of service at a time, the year should look a lot like 2023.

So, I think with respect to the regional room remodels, we're able to do them differently. There are some structural issues with the Gold Coast that causes us to take more rooms out of service at a time. The other room remodels that will be happening at Blue Chip and Valley Forge and Ameristar St. Charles, we'll be able to do where there'll be smaller number of rooms out of service that will have limited impact on the business. So, I would not be factoring in any real disruption from those.

It's a really hard question to answer, Joe. Look, it's been open, as you say, 60 or 70 days. We haven't seen a significant impact. We're pleased with the way our operating teams have been able to manage through this. And other than that, we're going to continue to be very cautious very diligent about how we approach the business. But I'm not ready to say that we've hit kind of peak trial and the worst is behind us, so to speak. So, every market is different, every opening is different, every property is different. And so, it's really tough to peg that.

Yeah. So, Boyd Interactive is obviously still kind of a very new venture for us, a little over a year since we've owned that business. We've been successful in launching online casino in New Jersey and PA, I think both performing well. We launched a social gaming product under the Stardust brand earlier in January, that have been out there, but it being run by somebody else. And so, I think we're very happy with the way it's performing. Remember, it also has a smaller B2B business that it operates that existed when we bought it.

So look, overall, we're pleased with this performance. The team is doing a great job executing on the plan that's in front of it and looking to continue to grow that business. It is a long-term play for us. It's not about the short term. And when we describe kind of a flat Online segment or Online business category, I think it's a combination of both the online sports betting as well as Boyd Interactive that we think will be reasonably flat for the year.

So look, our main priority every day is making sure that we're running a strong business that we're looking at ways to grow profitable revenues and bring those revenues to the bottom-line and just make sure that we have a very, very strong business and that we're reinvesting in our business at the right level. Beyond that, if something interesting happens to come up, we'll take a look at it, but we've talked in the past, we've always been a very, very disciplined investor, a disciplined acquirer of assets. It's got to be the right assets at the right price, at the right market, and be the right strategic fit and have the right strategic reason to do it. And once again, our core priority right now is focusing on running a strong business, generating incremental EBITDAR and incremental shareholder value. And if something interesting comes up, we'll probably take a look at it. But we remain very disciplined.

Look, from an overlap standpoint, I certainly don't have any insight into what their demographics look like. From just a pure geography standpoint, you look at ZIP codes, where our customers come from, what our various properties, what ZIP codes are closest to them, what ZIP codes are in kind of a jump ball category. We understand all that. We understood all that well before they opened and we're able to put the right plans in place. Our comments we've made a couple of times today about thus far, we have not seen a significant impact to our operations to our customers as a result of that is about all we can say. We know customers has visited as customers always do. But I think the proof is in the numbers, and we're not seeing a significant impact as of yet, but it's only 70 days, and we'll just be very cautious going forward.

I think we have historically and currently view our 5% ownership in FanDuel as a very strategic partnership, a very strategic relationship. And through today, we continue to view it that way. What the future brings, if and when we'd monetize it, we don't have any thoughts or comments on that topic, but it is very much an important strategic relationship and drives a significant portion of the $60-plus million we generated in the online portion of the business. So, important, and we'll just see what the future brings.

Look, to what Josh's saying, to the extent you're right, Shaun, then yeah, we'll see that number go up.

We don't know. But...

Yes, that's about it.

I don't think we can specifically say that we've seen that, but many of those team members that work up and down the strip are the beneficiary of those pay package, certainly our customers and a number of our properties. And so, to the extent that they have more money in their pocket, I assume we're getting some of that, but there's really no way to tell -- no way for us to comment on this at that point -- at this point.

Sure. Thank you.

In terms of kind of the disruption aspect, look, the boat will stay open. It will technically will close, I'm sure, for a few days, three to four days, as we have to move some gear off of the boat on the land-based facility. Kind of the rules and regulations in Louisiana require us to have everything in working order before we're able to open the door. So, there'll be three or four days where we'll be out of business, but no other disruption other than that.

So, in terms of our return, Josh?

Yeah, I wouldn't be thinking about that from a pure sports book standpoint. I think if you'd be thinking about it more holistically, room rates are strong, cash room rates are strong. There are certainly a lot of people in town. So it will be a stronger weekend than normal. I think the week -- this week, the week leading up to the Super Bowl is stronger than in prior years because there's more people in town. But anything in particular or any thoughts in particular about how the book may operate differently, I wouldn't anticipate that.

So, I think as we look at our core customer and play patterns from our core customers across the portfolio, it has been strong and it continues to be strong and continues to grow, that is the case here in the Locals market, it's also the case in our Southern states. More of the falloff last year that we saw down in those states had to do with more of the lower-end retail and the unrated. So, I think we're pleased with the performance of our kind of mid- and upper tier-rated customers and the performance of our core play in the South.

I think it would be our view that the majority of the customers -- of our customers, existing Boyd, Las Vegas Locals customers who are visiting Durango or the people who live here are local customers and people, once again, who's ZIP code is maybe closer to Durango or in between our properties and Durango, so they have a choice. It may be easier to drive there, just maybe a product that they want to go check out. In some cases, maybe a product they enjoy better. Again, it's just [indiscernible], we have 70 days on our belt, and we're pleased with the overall performance of our business in those first 70 days.

Yeah. Look, it's a hard question to respond to. So look, as I said, first and foremost, we have to make sure that our core business is running at optimum efficiencies, and that's our focus each and every day. Look, as we think about M&A, clearly, given the size and the scale and the scope of the company today, the opportunity has to be larger as opposed to smaller, given our breadth and our geographic breadth where we go is important. It's got to be a market that makes sense for us. It's got to be strategic. It's got to be a strong market.

As you look across the portfolio, could we name a half a dozen assets it would be interesting? Sure. But it probably doesn't matter unless they're actually for sale. And so, once again, we're going to focus each and every day on building and maintaining a strong business. And when something interesting hits our radar screen, we'll take a look. But as I have said a couple of times, it's got a hit or tick off a number of boxes before we would take a look at it.

That is fair.

Thanks, John.

So, I have attempted to answer the M&A question a couple of times. I'm going to let Josh take a shot at this one.