Keith Harvey
Kaiser Aluminum Corporation (KALU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Josh.

Well, I think Boeing had planned on moving up from its current 38 rate, Josh. And so they're going to be staying at that 38 rate until the FAA and Boeing agree that they've met the quality requirements to enable them to move. And from a Kaiser perspective, yes, Boeing is an important and a large customer with us, but it gets back to the beauty, and we've talked about this for years, the diversity of our business. So we have talked for a long time about being a big part of business jet, a big part of defense, a big part of other programs that are going out there, and other large commercial airframes. So we're seeing strength perhaps capped in one area. We have got opportunities in other areas that continue to draw on our capacity. And when you look at the culmination of what we see in the markets overall, and coupled with the fact of what we expect in talking with customers on the general engineering side of our business, it really drove us to announce the launch of Phase VII at Trentwood. And we had been watching this closely. But then with the strength that we saw last year, the recovery that came back to the levels at least on conversion revenue, it really drove us to look at this expansion, to take care of these markets. And I would say that, I said it in my comments, but I was really, the Trentwood team has been extremely innovative over the year. We've done six of these expansions. They've done them, each one of those were done while we were basically red lined at current capacity levels. And they have continued to work and develop on more efficient, lower cost ways to add capacity. And so that really encouraged us with all the market demand drivers I spoke to, to begin the launch of Phase VII. So overall, we still see a really strong draw overall for the entire markets.

Well, it's not a huge broad category of customers, and of course, we're a large player there. So we have good discussions with our customer base on a regular basis. So we've been in discussions with them since the fourth quarter of last year about how things looked. And then I think it's also being reinforced. A number of those have already had their earnings calls, and they've mentioned about growth reoccurring here in 2024 and back to that mid-single-digit growth over the entire year of last year. So I think when you couple that together, we feel pretty good. We're seeing the order rates begin to perk back up and think that they will only strengthen as we get into the typical strong demand quarters of the second and third quarter for that business. So we feel that destocking should be behind us after the early part of the year here.

Thank you, Josh.

No, we'll start out a good bit this year. We're ramping up the first part of the year, Bill, but this has been a strategy that we've been looking to deploy really for the last two to three years. We did not feel long term that a supply position with using prime metal from a coal fired power facility was going to really meet the requirements for our greenhouse gas and the requirements that our customers were putting on us for the use of more recycled content in their products. And so this is something we've been working towards, our agreement was officially up with Alcoa at the end of the year. And so in the latter part of last year, we had been executing using more secondary, more scrap from other sources. And we have really worked to perfect that and work that well within our process. As you imagine, it could be a little different than working just across the aisle from a smelter. But the team there has done an excellent job and we've proven that we can move away from a big part, from prime and move to secondary. There are obviously cost advantages associated with that, which gives us comfort in giving a little bit of that guidance out there of what the impact of this is going to be. So, quite frankly, we just fully expect this to keep ramping up and we're pretty encouraged by the results that we've seen so far. So as we get more efficient in this process, I think we'll be able to cement those kind of margin improvements with that metal strategy.

Yes, no, I think that's going to be a strategic input from any producer and we've certainly been spending a lot of time on it, developing relationships with suppliers and ensuring that we have the right amount of availability from either prime resources globally and/or secondary and scrap resources here in North America. So I think it's going to be a critical part. Kaiser is taking that extremely important part of our strategy going forward. So this is the really a culmination of the last couple of years. What are we going to do, especially with work and but we've also really been developing that strategy for all of our businesses. So from the extrusion side, which we've historically used, large amount of scrap, and those relationships that we have more on regional basis there, they're really sound and we've been executing there for a number of years. So, but I think it's a critical part of the go-forward strategy. Now, we expect more scrap availability, but those relationships and the availability of that will be a key strategic component of anybody's game plan.

Thank you, Bill.

Hi, Timna.

Well, we've been following that as well, Timna, and it seems like, especially over the last few months, a slowdown on the demand for EVs for multitude of reasons. Perhaps transitioning is always bumpy. But the good thing about our business is that we've been very focused, especially on the ICE side of the business, on light truck and SUVs. And as the business has somewhat slowed on the EVs, the business around the trucks and SUVs have been fairly robust, and we've been associated with those programs for a good while. We also have parts that we've been supplying forever, for instance, like ABS brakes systems. We're a large supplier into that side of the business. Of course, whether it's an EV or an ICE vehicle, all of those require the use of ABS brake systems and so forth. So I feel pretty good about our ability to probably weather this transition, but it's always, we're a little cautious. A lot of changes that have taken place there, as the strike, sort of the UAW strike, that sort of blends out and figures out where things are going to be. I like our position. As you know, it's probably only about 8% or 9% of our total conversion revenue. So perhaps not as impactful to us as perhaps others, but I like where our contracts are, and of course, we'll weather the transition with the rest of the market.

Yes. What we really like, Timna, is large projects. And I think as you've seen from a number of folks in our space and in the steel space and so forth, we weren't the only one that was subject to a lot of inflationary costs, material high cost, and so forth. So those are always a challenge in these types of environments. What really excited us and really got us to the point of launching the Phase VII, is that this is more in alignment with how we did the previous six expansions. These are more bite size type investments that we can make, so they have lower impact on the operating business. We're still very mindful of the fact that we're going to move as quickly as possible. And I think you saw some pretty good headway we made on our leverage numbers. And so we're really mindful of maintaining that, maintaining our dividend, maintaining our -- but also committing to the growth for our customers here. And that really put us on over the top there. We're to the point. And you saw how the demand was for aero for us in the fourth quarter. It's really come back as fast or faster than we would have expected. So, one might say we might be a little behind the time on launching this, but I think I like the cadence of being able to do these in smaller buckets, more managing size, and then get those increments of capacity into the business within a one year type period, as opposed to these large projects that typically take multi-year to deliver any kind of return on the investment. And of course, these investments that we're making at Trentwood, these are all in those historically high mid 20% to high 20% margin type products. So those always are pretty exciteful for us to be able to launch and take advantage of.

Sure. Look, with regard and Novelis, look, we understand. It was really tough to come back. And if you look at the percentage increase that's gone up and the delay that they had, we were perhaps suffering through the same thing. The percent increase, even though it's got a couple of more zeros approach to it for them was about the same that we had with our large project the roll coat at Warwick. So a little bit of an expectation that misery loves companies. So we were all seeing the same things. So but they're a great company. They'll get through that. They're very knowledgeable in the packaging in the automotive so they'll get that out over time. I suspect you'll see that in all large projects that have been launched. We certainly haven't been insulated nor has anyone else been from the inflationary costs that have impacted. But we've continue to see the reasonings for expansion, because growth is occurring and we either have to keep up with our customers or we're going to be left behind. So the focus there. Moving over to tariffs. Look, with regard to tariffs on Russian material, we made a commitment as a company when the Ukrainian war started out that we weren't going to work with any types of companies and/or materials from Russia. So that really wouldn't impact us. I know perhaps the LME, we'll see what impact that would have, but Kaiser buys metal from a lot of sources and I'm confident and actually pleased with the fact that we don't use Russian material. And then with regard to tariffs that might take place. Timna, we've come to learn to react to many things in this industry and Kaiser will continue to do that. We'll react, we'll do the right things for our company, for our country and then obviously for our shareholders. We're well diverse in a lot of areas and I don't see how tariffs going to take off from the demand of our products because a lot of focus here in North America. But may provide an opportunity, a catalyst for us actually an incentive. But, we're pretty well positioned to weather those things. As you know, tariffs have been in place with Chinese companies for years and multiple products and come and go and we just have learned to operate in a very different environment.

Thank you.

Yes, well, what we tried to do, Curt, and we've listened to a lot of you about an understanding. We have been talking about how this portfolio of businesses, we believe we could move back to Kaiser's historic mid-20s type margin and above. And we haven't made it easy for people to understand that with the challenges we've had over the last couple of years. So there's been a lot of volatility that we've dealt with. And as you know, we don't, from our segmentation perspective, Kaiser doesn't break out EBITDA for those various businesses. But what we wanted to do was to try to give a bridge from where we are and or have been to where we think we're driving the business, so that people can understand a little bit more of what we intend to do and how that's going to impact and get us back up to those levels. So, for instance, if you look at the call out that you mentioned on the packaging, especially with the metal strategy and the roll coat, and really that's not adding capacity, that's adding roll coat coated capacity, so that we can move our existing capacity to a higher margin, which is one of the traits that Kaiser does in all of our businesses. So you begin to start seeing how we can bridge from where we end up at 14, 14.3 for last year. So you can start seeing how the progressive, when we bring these capacities, these innovations online when we get efficiencies we'll start giving a little bit more clarity and what those efficiency gains, what those investment gains will be to help you on your models as you try to see how we're going to get from here to there.

Well, when we gave those -- that outlook, that's the impact on the overall business with those investments. So that's not relegated to just the packaging. That's the overall consolidated business, the reference there, perhaps that wasn't as clear.

You got it. That's the way we laid it out for you.

Yes, we can. Because let me tell you one of the reasons that the aero is going to wouldn't perhaps be as high as the increment that we had last year. It's back to my comment about general engineering beginning to recover in the second half. And so we've got a commitment to our service center customers, some large OEMs and other markets, that we're not going to cut them out just because aerospace is returning. If you can recall, we had that conflict in 2019. And so, we made a commitment to those customers that we were going to not only service the growth for aero, but we're going to be in a position to service their needs on general engineering. So that's a reflection of moving part of that capacity to general engineering, most likely in the second half. The other component there, Curt, is that, as you recall, a lot of the aerospace is contractual business. So there's not going to be a lot of change on the pricing for a good portion of that business. Those contracts are generally multi-year that are in place. So, any additional capacity we've had in the past, we've applied to spot business, which has been pretty good for us as well. Well, the business in general engineering for spot business is as equal to the returns that we can get on aero almost. So we're going to make sure that we cover all parties. But it's back to the reasoning that we've launched Phase VII. To the point we need more capacity and we like the way we're going to lay it in over multi-years, smaller increments, and it allows us to make sure that we grow with our customers.

Yes, not at this point and not at those levels. So, we have our sustaining CapEx we've talked about roughly $60 million, roughly. We'll have smaller, we should have the roll coat line completed, the majority of that spending behind us. And so other than sustaining and some smaller growth potentials like I could envision for the second Phase VII or something of that magnitude, we expect that the spending will dramatically reduce in the out years -- starting in '25.

Thank you.

Well, a change that's taken place, Josh, for generally, general engineering has historically been a spot market, but for a lot of the large OEMs that are going to be requiring some of our product, they are interested in multi-year contractual agreements. And that's a little bit because what they've experienced is what happened in the aerospace a number of years back. Their growth can be limited by the availability of existing capacity. And so as they look more strategically of securing their business and their growth, they are more interested in entering into multi-year agreements. And of course, we are going to take care of our service centers customers. But some of these large OEMs with reshoring that's taking place provide really great opportunities for us. They love our Kaiser select products and they're preferred. And again great growth opportunity for us. And again a reinforcement for Phase VII.

Well it varies by supplier. I can tell you that Kaiser is and has been on allocation for a long time and we're currently unallocated to customers. And another reason for Phase VII launch.

Thank you.

Okay, thank you Maria. And thanks for everyone for being with us today. I look forward to updating you on our first quarter 2024 results in April. Thank you.