Ken Vecchione
Western Alliance Bancorporation (WAL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Casey, let me just add, right now we're on track to beat the $2 billion for our Q1. And that's inclusive of the HOA deposits coming back in.

So, hello, Steve, it's Ken. What I would say is, again, thinking about the year, the first two quarters of the year, NIM should track consistent with our Q4 NIM of 3.65%. And then Q3 and Q4, the NIM will gently roll down as the price -- as the rate cuts come into play. But offsetting that NIM decline will be the reduction in ECR expenses.

That's something that -- we don't do…

Steve, you're on a choppy line a little bit, Steve. But, I would say, to Dale's point -- you there?

Got you. I would say, just keep in mind, you're either thinking about -- your question is based on total dollars and so, while rate will be coming down, total dollars may still rise as we continue to push off on deposit growth. So, just keep in mind the rate volume impact there. Okay?

Yes. Good question. We started to pivot by the way in the third quarter of 2022 with higher liquidity and higher capital. And we certainly were very happy that we did. As we entered March Madness, it really served us well. And that's informed our decision-making as to why we want to keep that moving forward. And as you said, we'll have that basically completed by the first half of 2024.

Then, I think what you're going to see is a little bit of the same Bank, but I don't think we're going to put our foot on the accelerator as hard as we used to put -- push down on the throttle there. And one reason is, we never got really paid for that. So, up until the end of 2022, we were probably growing deposits and loans about 24% to 25% per year and we didn't see that in our evaluation. And in fact, people always got nervous with that and said, geez, there must be a credit problem that was lurking behind, but really over that period of time, we only had $29 million of net losses.

So, what we're going to do is, we're going to be targeting for above-industry trend growth going forward in the back-half of '24 and into '25, and we think we'll get rewarded for that, and takeaway concerns that they'll always linger about going way back even to 2006 and '07 and '08, that people bring up and I think we'll run from there. But we should be higher in our return on equity, higher on return on assets, but not to the old levels of coming back to 2010 to 2013, 2014, 2015. Okay?

You're welcome.

Good morning.

Yes. So, Ebrahim, thanks for the question and I think your question is insightful because that's how we're changing around the business. So, we've been working on a number of new deposit verticals that are really getting legs behind them. And the first is Settlement Services. And just this quarter alone, we grew Settlement Services $2.1 billion. And so, there the deposits are a little larger and -- but the growth rate is steady and consistent. So, as you get to a certain level, large deposits will flow off and then you got to bring on the large deposits in.

Additionally, we have our business escrow and Corporate Trust business and that too is beginning to get some legs. And in this quarter, that grew by $350 million. Now, that business will continue to grow, but it really will be helped once we get our investment-grade ratings back. And go back to the pivot, the pivot is to get to our investment-grade ratings, so that Corporate Trust could be a bigger contributor to our deposits and we think with an overall 11% CET1 ratio, mid-80%s loan-to-deposit ratio, steady asset quality, we will position ourselves to get upgraded there.

Now, HOA, it's been a long -- actually, what was probably our first national business line, and that continues to knock the ball out of the park. And usually, what is a slow quarter, the fourth that is, they grew $300 million. For the year, they grew about $1.2 billion and those are steady, smaller deposits. They come in from either new business that we win and the existing clients growing their book of business. So, we get that two ways.

Then, another business that we are very pleased with was the one we started in early January, January 4th of 2023, which is our Consumer Digital Platform. This quarter alone, that brought in nearly $800 million. And that's been a real home run for us and that's where we see deposits more in $53,000 to $57,000 range for each client. Now for -- going forward in '24 into '25, we're going to try to shift the platform from an outside vendor to an internal platform. And so, we're going to probably run two platforms for a while as we come up to speed with our own platform. But that will help us also longer-term and it will reduce, not in '24, but going forward '25 and '26, it will reduce some of our maintenance expenses.

And then, last but not least, let's not forget what we are in our traditional ball game here and that is the regions, and we've been rethinking and redesigning the regions, that was the reason why we moved Tim out of his Chief Credit Officer role into the Chief Banking Officer for the regions. That's why we brought in Lynne Herndon to take over the Chief Credit Officer role and Tim's charge is to rethink and re-imagine the regions and how to be more C&I-focused. And with that focus in C&I, of course, there'll be more deposits.

And I should mention that $600 million came in this quarter from the regions as well in deposits. But it will also help us grow our fee income. And so, we're going to get a two for there over the long term. It will be easier to bring in the deposits first and then that fee income as we continue to sell or cross-sell our Treasury Management Services, will help us towards the back-end of '24, but again pick up some steam into the new year of 2025.

So, I hope that kind of gives you a sense of what we've been doing, and we're looking at some other deposit verticals that are just early, early stages and we'll probably work on them this year and hope to have them ready to go either in the back-end of '24 or early '25.

So, today, it's not part of the equation. We're not talking about M&A at all. You know, again, we're talking about 11% CET1, kind of move that upward. But it will at some point -- the M&A question or conversation will come into play as we continue to get bigger and bigger. We kind of do what we think we're going to do with deposits, then, where that will be brought into play as we approach a $100 billion. But frankly, that's a premature conversation at this point. I think we still have a couple of years before we get to a $100 billion.

So, you know, the further we take, Q4, we thought loan growth was going to be doing zero on the $300 million, and so, we were a little surprised that it came in at $850 million. I'd rather be surprised on the upside as a general trend, but we're still going to be a little cautious about economic activity going forward. And so, we're going to be mindful of this recession or slowdown that only at least advertised to come but has not shown up yet. And then, we have sort of deemphasized certain asset classes for now, those being obviously CRE office and residential just to name the two, some construction areas as well.

And so, we're just going to stay with the guide of $500 million a quarter. We think that's reasonable. And if the liquidity comes in faster than we think, then we'll look to deploy it in loan growth. As a general rule, we've never had problem deploying our liquidity and getting good, safe, sound, and thoughtful loan growth.

Yes. Right now, we have no plans to do a buyback. And 11% is a little more of a floor for us. I know we call it a target, but it's more of a floor. So we want to build above that. And then we'll have growth capital. And as we enter '25, well, we're going to have a lot of decisions to make. If we see a lot of internal growth in front of us, that's where I like to deploy the money. First, you got to tell me what the economic environment is and I'll tell you if we're going to do a buyback. But really, the buyback conversation has not been on the table in this company. And again, the 11% is a floor for us.

We spend a lot of time talking about ‘25 year. I want to get through ‘24 and make everything we just told you. But for '24, I could definitely tell you, there's no buyback on the table.

The 10% on management income is a combination of really the loan growth as we move forward, that's what's going to move us in that direction. And the additional liquidity we're bringing in, and placing that into investments.

Yes. It's almost market-by-market dependent. There are just things going on in different markets for us. If you're talking tech and innovation, spreads there really haven't moved, but a little more competitive because there's less deal flow because they're raising less cash there. If you're talking some very specific lot banking deals, spreads are strong and we were getting our pricing. And some of these banks are moving in and moving out. It's really hard to give one generic answer as to, well, are they all pulling back or not.

Well, the 11% is, as I said, a floor for us. We have to engage or continue to engage with the rating agencies. That's usually a two-step process. They usually put you on outlook positive and then come back and make the change.

As far as I know so far, we got a change in our outlook from Fitch, but I don't know if there's any other bank that had a change in their outlook. So my friends at the rating agencies may be a little slow to pull the trigger. But when we go in there, we want to go in there with great capital levels, a firm, steady, stable asset quality and very strong liquidity. And that's how we're positioning the company.

In the meantime, our corporate trust group is still operating and bringing in good business. They could just bring in more business with the upgrade to an investment rating. So they're doing just fine. This would just accelerate their opportunities to bring in more business.

Brody, I'd remind you that, by the end of Q4, the 10-year treasury dropped 69 basis points, from 4.57 to 3.88, just punctuate Dale's point. And these -- the MSR balance, we have several outsized valuation firms that come in and look at that MSR and value it for us to make sure that we're within the appropriate range.

Welcome.

Well, thank you very much for joining us today, and we look forward to talking to you about 2024 in a couple of months from now. Thanks again.