Ken Xie
Fortinet, Inc. (FTNT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Long-term, definitely we see that gen AI will increase the traffic a lot and also automate a lot of security operations. We also see the refresh of the firewall cycle. We do provide some kind of a [Indiscernible] data there. But we also see a lot of new opportunity. We now come at the refresh. Like we mentioned in the script, some of the OT technology area and even supporting some work from home and also some other enterprise internal segmentation replacing the traditional switch with a network security firewall that we call the convergence, also starting to get more and more adopted by the big enterprise. So that's also the new market compared to refreshed traditional firewall. But I agree with you, the next phase connection, the traffic will keep increasing, especially more devices will be connected online and also more people will work remotely. And at the same time, the AI also kind of generates quite a lot of additional data, which also kind of need to be secured. So we see a pretty good potential for the long-term growth.

Thank you.

I think you probably can recall in the last earnings call, we started more focus on SASE SecureOps and started tracking that separately. And also, we also mentioned 90% of our field sales force also being trained certified for SASE SecureOps. And also, all the six eight-figure deals, including all the three, secure networking, SASE and the SecureOps. So, we do see it grow faster, especially during the current kind of environment of refresh cycle. We do see the SASE, which is more consumption model, and also SecureOps, which can lower the operation cost probably faster than the traditional secure networking area. So that's where we kind of redirect some focus, resource, more focus on these two areas. We see a pretty huge success, grow both the pipeline and also even the deal. We closed some of the first eight figure SASE deal, which also makes us feel pretty excited.

I think we have some advantage, actually, leverage the SD-WAN huge deployment we have, all the firewalls, huge deployment, and also the single OS-based SASE solution, which integrates all the SD-WAN, all the SASE functions into a single FortiOS, which is a huge advantage for whether the customer themself or even for some service provider, offer the SASE service to their customer base. So it's a pretty strong growth. We see it's a pretty good move we have.

Also, we kind of own probably a high percentage of some infrastructure, some real estate, and some of our competitors. That actually gave us much lower cost, operation cost going forward, which also will help drive the future growth, especially on a service like a SASE. And that also gives us a better margin long-term.

S&B is pretty interesting. We do quite well in the SMB market, even for the traditional firewall, bigger than any other competitors. But also SMB has a pretty low percentage of a customer actually using any network security because of whether the management costs or some other people cost, all these kinds of things.

So that's where SASE applied there, definitely helping some SMB customers. But also we see kind of the long-term combined both where to work from home, we're pretty strong like a couple years ago in the retail branch office solution there, also helping us kind of like doing well in SMB. And also the new product refresh, which leveraged SP5, we're only half the way, probably towards the second half of this year, we have more product come in using the new SP5. That's also keeping a hands-up position there. It's kind of like I said, it's a SASE more kind of consumption model. In a current environment, probably it would be more attractive compared to a CapEx model.

So that's where we see both SMB enterprise, they do have some more interest to do this kind of OpEx model. Maybe John Whittle.

Yes, for the three segments, I don't have the latest market data, but from Q3, the firewall market is kind of flat here. Q4, we probably will read out company reporting. But we do see probably still under some pressure this year, especially the first half of this year. But I do believe the long-term converging story will hold quite well because the company also needs to manage the kind of application level, which is how to use network security to do that. So that's where long-term we do see the firewall market or the network security market will continue to grow, I feel, probably around 10% year-over-year in the next maybe three to five years.

SASE and SecOps come from maybe smaller base, which also grow faster. And we also have a lot of existing customers. I want to adopt all this together with us. They probably already are firewall customers, D1 customers. They can easily adopt additional solutions, additional products. So that's where we see the other two sectors grow faster than the company average and probably continue to grow faster in the next few quarters.

Yes, the SecOps is actually helping customers more like better security and more efficient and also lower the total management costs. That's where I need to have multiple solutions, multiple products integrated together, automated together. So that's what we see in the current environment of our company. And because small, they do see the SecOps already. The area they probably work on the investment there. And also we do see the merging of networking and security together, which also SecOps plays a quite important role to make sure the two operations can be operated together, which we are needing in this area.

So that's where SecOps, we see pretty strong growth. SASE is more like consumption model. We also see kind of fit the current environment well. Even the cost could be a little bit higher than the appliance. But it gives the customer flexibility. And so that's where we see that. John, you want to answer?

Thank you, John. And John also helped us form the company culture in the very beginning, which is the teamwork and also openness and also innovation. So we'll continue to maintain this culture and keep growing the company together.

Yes, a very good question about SASE. Definitely we want to do both, even more than that. So we definitely see the opportunity changing our go-to-market strategy because a few months ago, we were more dependent on the service provider carrier trying to do a SASE. I helped them do a SASE. Now it's more go-to-market, direct ourselves, and at the same time working with our service provider, but also more important, really, internal R&D, internal investment in the infrastructure.

Like we mentioned, now we have over 150 pub worldwide, probably can match any other competitor, and same kind of function, the innovation, and also put all the SASE in a single OS, and then a lot of functions that are using ASIC will accelerate, and that also make our SASE solution much better, more advantaged compared to other competitors, and also more easy to deploy, more easy to manage. So we see that's a huge opportunity for SASE. It's not just SASE using the traditional cloud approach, but also on-premise SASE, the private SASE.

So we see a lot of opportunity for SASE going forward, both on the technology, which we also work at, our innovation, developing technology, and at the same time, the go-to-market strategy, once we focus, we see huge success behind.

Yes, we kind of keep improving the sales comp plan and also trying to line up what the company goal and what's the field sales and also how we can move kind of a tie together and success together so that there's some modification of the comp plan which move towards the company long-term both on the growth and the margin and also reflect more on some kind of a service based kind of model there behind.

So that and also kind of keeping investing in the sales force and also kind of making the structure more efficient that's other area and also training the sales and make sure because there's a lot of new area whether the SASE and SecOps do need a lot of training that's also the big enhancement we are kind of going through right now.

And maybe for all three sales and also sometimes even for a partner, if they sell all 3 solutions, secure networking, SASE and SecOps, they get more comp compared to only sell 1 or 2 solutions. So that's the additional incentive we offer to the field.

Yes. For SASE, we are the only company, we believe, has all the SASE function, SD-WAN, all the CASB, web service, all in a single operating system can be deployed on our premise [ph] using ASIC [indiscernible] or in a cloud form there. So that's a huge advantage, both for the customer, for the service provider. I think on the SecureOps side, we also most the product we internally develop whether from endpoint or from all these different like e-mail application, web, all this is because when we internally develop it integrate, automate much better than other competitor, more comp acquisition, which is a separate product that's more difficult to integrate, automate together.

So that's the two huge advantage we have. We usually call the SecureOps more like a fabric approach. I've been doing that for 10 years, which is pretty successful, but now we have the same time which customer wants to hear is the SecureOp, which they see the huge advantage that drives a huge growth going forward and also the field training and also kind of help a lot. So that's the advantage we have, whether the SASE single OS approach can use as AC [ph] to accelerate and then the secure app is integrated automate together much better than other competitors gave us huge advantage.
