Kenneth DeGiorgio
First American Financial Corporation (FAF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think we saw probably a larger uptick in the early weeks, the first week of January and some it tailed off as you went through the month, which suggest, yes, there was some spillover. But I think on the whole, we feel pretty good about where the numbers came out in January.

Yes.

Yes. It's really impossible to tell. It's extremely difficult. I mean certainly, some orders that might have been open with us in the last couple of weeks of December might have opened somewhere else, though, again, we saw some of the spillover, which maybe they were holding the orders and send them to us as soon as our systems got back online. I think where the real issue is our orders that would have closed with us at the end of December and either the customer moved them or in many instances, we move to those orders. But keep in mind, that's behind us now. Those things are behind us now. So we're focused on the orders we got. And again, I think a lot of them, if not all of them are not of them spilled over into January and we'll realize the benefit of those orders in the ordinary course, and of the ordinary time frames, be they a purchase refi or a commercial order.

John, I mean, we're definitely managing to the 50%, 60% success ratio. Keep in mind though, when we talk about modest revenue growth, the success ratio is less meaningful. But no, we're absolutely still managing to that level.

Well, I mean, I don't think I mean it's not going to last forever. I think Endpoint -- 2023 was probably a peak year in the losses of Endpoint. And I think those are going to gradually come down over the next couple of years. On instant decisioning for purchase transactions, as Mark mentioned, the expenses are probably going to ramp up, but it's early days on that initiative, very early days. And while I think the expense on the whole scope of thing is fairly modest, it will increase modestly over time until we start to realize the benefits of that. That was much harder to predict, but I would anticipate, again, with endpoint that those -- the drag is starting to decrease, and it will decrease over time over the next couple of years.

Well, I think '25 is going to look a lot better than '24 and '23. So I guess I view '24 as a transition year. So yes, we think the MBA is pretty optimistic. We think the GSEs are probably a little optimistic as well. We're probably coming in a little light of them. And again, we see -- as we mentioned earlier, we see modest revenue growth. But I do see '24 as a transition year. And if we get the rate cuts that the forward curve expects or even if we get 1 or 2 less, I think it's setting us up for a great 2025.

Yes. I mean I think the big thing about kind of getting back to normal or no ongoing impact is just, first of all, the orders we saw, the order counts we saw come in, in January. And then the feedback we've gotten from our customers. I think by and large, our customers have indicated that they put the incident behind them. And unfortunately, in this day and age, these types of things are becoming more and more commonplace as we've seen with competitors and other participants in the industry.

Obviously, when you have an intent like this, there's regulatory inquiries and potential litigation. But because our information security program really was probably best in class. I don't anticipate, but again, you never know with regulators, but I don't anticipate to have fines or the live coming out of regulators. Now obviously, plaintiff lawyers are different. They always come out of the woodwork in instances like this. But I don't anticipate that any of that would be material. And I would layer in as well that we also have a fairly robust cyber insurance program, which would help mitigate the impact of some of those expenses as well.

