Kenneth Tuchman
TTEC Holdings, Inc. (TTEC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi George, good morning. When you ask my macro view, I'm not sure I'm understanding the question. I'm not an economist, so I want to make sure that I'm qualified to answer your question. So you want to just give me a little bit more color on your question so that I can be more accurate.

Yes, I mean, I think that what we're seeing, I think the whole industry is seeing, I think is very simply that clients are operating and acting in a very conservative fashion. You can see that with everything from the cost optimization programs that they've announced to the layoffs that they've announced, et cetera. And so consequently, I think that many, many clients or many, many industries are seeing lower growth, and they're basically doing everything they can to try to anticipate what's in front of them. And I think that they don't necessarily know whether or not we're going to have a soft landing or whether things are just slowing down for a period of time. I would agree that in the US, that the consumer still is acting somewhat resilient, but what we're seeing is that the consumer is becoming much more conservative in their purchase decisioning. It's already showing up in what types of retail stores that they're going to versus where they were shopping at, et cetera, due to things like food prices being higher, due to the fact that their rents are at a much higher level than they've been as a percentage of their income, et cetera.

So all-in-all, I think that we feel that the US hopefully can skate through this while a big chunk of Western Europe and other parts of the world are already in an actual recession. So our goal and our hope are that we will get through 2024 and we'll be right back to seeing growth in 2025. By then, interest rates will have moderated. By then, I think the Fed will feel that inflation has come down a bit. And I think the good news is what we're seeing is that clients are absolutely doing what they feel is necessary and critical, which is one of the reasons why our Digital business is showing good signs of growth right now because so many clients who want to take advantage of any form of AI realize that they now have to move off their bare metal systems and into the cloud. And so that's an example of where when a client has no choice to do something, they're doing it. And consequently, as we've said on several conference calls prior to this call, a high percentage of large enterprises do not have their contact center technology in the cloud as it relates to CCaaS and therefore we're benefiting from it.

So sorry for the very long winded answer, but we believe that right now clients are no longer as let's say confused as they were in the second half. We're seeing decision making taking place. That said, we're seeing from the time that we get a verbal commitment to the time that a contract is signed is absolutely elongated. And again, is really kind of very typical of what we experience in environments where clients felt that they were going into a recession or where clients felt like they needed to tighten their belt. They ultimately go through and sign the contract, but I'm just simply telling you it's not like during COVID where there was an absolute sense of urgency and where we were getting contracts signed in 90 days and 120 days, et cetera. And so therefore, not only is the sales cycle elongated, but in the time of the verbal award to the time of the actual signing is taking a bit longer. I have no doubt that this is a temporary situation. We've experienced this before. We've been through multiple recessionary cycles. And so I'm very confident that this will lift and shall pass and that we feel we will be right back on track in 2025. But we want to be conservative, we want to be realistic about what it is that we're seeing.

I think we are definitely; I think the sales cycle is normalized, but I think it's normalized most likely by my previous comments, which is that there is so much of the CCaaS space that is not yet in the cloud. And a lot of our clients have technology that frankly is hitting end of life. And so consequently, that is really lighting a fire to get, to move them to the cloud. And it's why we feel confident that our business not only, our pipeline, not only did we have record bookings in fourth quarter, we feel very strongly about first quarter, and we feel that this will persist, and that 2025, we will see double digit growth as well as profit margins.

So yes, we feel very confident in the space. As it relates to AI, I would say, yes. AI, all of our clients are talking to us about AI, but at the end of the day, before they can even get to AI and really properly take advantage of AI, they really need to have their capabilities in the cloud. So I think that AI might be one of the motivators just in general, but I also think the fact that they're receiving notice of end of life across a myriad of manufacturers that they're no longer going to support the platform that they were on.

What I would say is that we're embracing AI. We view it as a very -- we view it as a positive change. We view it as a huge opportunity. I can't stress enough that at the end of the day, the market part, the Engage marketplace, for the most part, is consolidated. There's, roughly speaking, five Tier 1 providers that are in the marketplace. And at the end of the day, all five of us are included in almost every major opportunity that's out there. What AI affords all of us, the entire industry, is an opportunity to show our clients a way to increase quality and lower overall costs to serve. Why does that matter? It matters because when you have a $400 billion TAM, of which only $100 billion has been outsourced, even with interactions that potentially become partially self-automated because they're more or less transactions, not interactions, the fact of the matter is there is more TAM and more opportunity out there than the top five competitors combined could ever handle.

And I think, I still feel very confident that the captive operations are beginning to realize that A, they're not that good at doing this. The businesses become way too complicated, way too sophisticated, and requiring more and more geographies, more and more technologies and advanced processes. And so consequently, it's our belief that that embedded base is going to continue to be the gift that keeps on giving as they begin to look for ways to reduce their employee count and drive better productivity. So do I think that it's going to have an impact on very low-end transactions? Yes, but that's not a space that we're focused on. Our business is not providing what your bank balance is or when will my product arrive or whatever. That's just not the type of work that we're focusing on. The work that we're focusing on is work that typically is assisting our clients in acquiring, growing, and retaining their customer base and building a level of trust. And I think that you can only take a chatbot so far before it actually becomes disruptive in a long-term customer's relationship. And I can tell you that when we have our meetings with our client advisory board to a [inaudible] every single client that we have says that they are only interested in using AI in a selective way and that they are very conscious of the fact that if they were to over-self-serve that would have a negative impact on their business. So that's my way of saying that I think that it will have a positive impact. I think it'll drive more clients to wanting to work with companies that know how to work with these technologies. And it's our goal and our hope to benefit from it.

Joe, I also want to just remind you as a backdrop that because we do a lot of complex financial services work that requires licensing, as well as a lot of healthcare work that requires licensing, that work has no risk of going offshore as it legally cannot. And then on top of that, we do quite a bit of public sector and federal work, and that work also cannot go offshore. So what I would say is the good news is that our sales energies and our sales efforts are very focused on winning offshore businesses, therefore we're seeking out clients that have the interest and the need to offshore. But the good news about the embedded base is that for the most part, it's very solid, so to speak, because of the nature of the licensing and of just the legal requirements, so to speak.

Go ahead, Shelly.

Let me though say a couple of things. Number one, it's really imperative to understand that because we have a digital division that has a very unique skillset of working with every single major hyperscalers in a very deep way, in a partnering way, down to the point where we're very involved in consulting with these hyperscalers helping them with their product development, et cetera. On top of that, all the major CCaaS providers where we have literally thousands of engineers that are our engineers that do absolutely nothing but integrate to their systems, the fact of the matter is that we can have an intelligent conversation with our clients about what it takes to actually bring in AI and to take advantage of it as well as understanding what are the best use cases that actually make the most sense. I wanted to clarify something based on your question. If your question is, is AI having an impact on volumes, the answer is absolutely positively not, no matter what. There was a bunch of uproar about a client that put out, not our client but a company that put out press release having a real success with AI and how it was reducing their customer service associates.

This is a company that is way behind the times and when you go look at the AI that they are using which is online and very easy to validate, it is nothing more than the knowledge-based system. Virtually every client that we have already has a knowledge-based system and therefore it goes without saying if a client didn't have a knowledge-based system on the web, on the Internet, then of course you would be taking a lot more voice interactions than one who already has one. So what I would say to you is do we think that it will impact volumes? We absolutely think that it will impact interaction volumes but what we believe is more importantly is that it will enhance more of the complex interactions and allow our associates to get up to speed quicker, be more accurate with the information, have much more understanding of when to cross-sell, when to up-sell, and have much better data on where the client's mindset is so that they can serve the client in a much more sophisticated fashion.

And look, this is like every hype cycle. It's going to take years before clients are going to be able to truly take advantage of AI. So, I hope I answered your question, and happy to take any other questions about this offline, if you have more questions.
