Kent Masters
ALB CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Neal, you want to take that?

Yeah. So I can start. Eric can fill in a little bit. So at the Salar, we were operating at capacity. We’ve done expansions at La Negra. We need brine to feed that. So that expansion is complete. But we need the brine from the Salar to feed that and then we -- we’re in commissioning of the Salar Yield Project. That’s the project that will provide the additional brine. But once we do that, it has to work its way through the brine system, and then we can, that’ll end up feeding the La Negra project. And I think that’s probably, Eric, a six-month lag, roughly, from a Salar perspective?

Yeah. So, I mean, to be blunt, I think that’s going to be about the pricing levels that we see and the trends that we see. So, we see demand there. The volume growth in the industry is there and we start seeing some projects come out, operating projects, as well as projects on the books, like the ones that we described. So, for us to kind of re-accelerate, if you will, we’ll need to get a better view of what pricing is and the long-term view of that as well.

So we think what the prices today are unsustainable. They’re below operating cash levels of some assets that are currently operating and they’re definitely below reinvestment levels, and as we said, particularly in the West, there’s not a particular price that kicks up necessarily a range of projects off. It’s all individual, depending on the resource, where it’s located, what the cost position is of that and the conversion asset, where that’s located. So, there’s not one number that
we will look at, but we’ll look at it project-by-project, but it’s not going to -- if spot prices hit a number, that’s not going to necessarily turn us back into investment mode. We need to have a view that that’s a long-term number that we can rely on through the life of that asset.

I don’t -- I mean I don’t know if I have anything much to add to that. I think we supply hydroxide and carbonate. We tend to supply carbonate from Chile. So we are -- that capacity is growing, as we just talked about a little bit earlier. We will supply that into the LFP market.

And then we are trying to be balanced between hydroxide and carbonate and catch those growing trends. It is a little bit more skewed toward carbonate at the moment and --but we think hydroxide catches up to that.

Then your question about should we lower rates to bring that back into balance. So I don’t -- we are still ramping up and we still see growth in the market of 20% a year. We are 10% to 20% for us this year and the market is a little bit stronger than that. I think that demand catches up without us having to adjust operating rates. We are still trying to commission plants and catch up to that.

Josh, we might need to look at the math you are doing, because actually the transitions between those different scenarios are a little bit different and actually if you do some averaging math in those scenarios, you will see how we have a little bit different jump between the three different scenarios.

Yeah. So we -- I mean, we kind of have a benchmark that we use to where we say at trough pricing, we want to get our cost of capital and double that at kind of the mid-cycle pricing. So now those numbers have moved around on us, but that’s kind of our -- still our aim when we do projects is, when we look at it at what we believe is trough pricing, that that would generate a cost of capital and then kind of twice that at mid-cycle pricing -- average pricing.

And some of that is just the lead time and getting these investments on the books and then executing against it. It’s a number of years to get those out there. So the projects we’re pulling back on, as Eric said, impact the back half of the decade.

Well, I mean, prices stay where they are. You’re going to see production come off and projects come off the books and that will eventually bring prices up and balance will happen. And then hoping we’re in a cycle where lower highs and higher lows starts to prevail, but -- and that was what we were anticipating in this cycle.
This is still higher than the last low, so maybe it’s just not quite as mature as we had anticipated. But we need to get into lower highs and higher lows so that there is some consistency in the industry and people can see through to an investment case for new projects.

So sequentially from the fourth quarter, is that what your question, I guess, year-over-year…

Just to clarify the question.

Yeah. I mean, I think, there’s going to be a difference between production and sales. I think you -- if you look at what happens seasonally with EVs, it is -- each year is a rapid rise to December and then a drop seasonally in January. So from a production standpoint, we’ll be sequentially up. From a demand standpoint, seasonal demand plays a role for the whole industry, including us.

Yeah. Well, and it’s hard to generalize that, John. I mean, I think, you have to go by region. So what I’d tell you is in China, there was a nice growth in plug-in hybrids last year. By our reckoning and our estimates, the estimates we had at the beginning of the year where we didn’t anticipate that, that plug-in hybrid growth came at the expense of internal combustion engines, not at the expense of battery electric vehicles in China, which is the largest market. It’s 6% of the market.

In Europe in the past year, you’ve seen the opposite trend. Battery electric vehicles have been growing faster than plug-in hybrids. The U.S., which is the smallest market is in a pivot point now, which I don’t, we’ll have to see which direction it goes. There’s a lot of discussion about how certain automotive producers are struggling with demand and costs to play and so I think they’re looking at plug-in hybrids as an alternative, but it is on the margin it’s the smallest market. So I think it has the least effect on lithium demand. By and large, going back to your original question, battery size grows, may grow at varying rates year on year on year, but it grows over time as we go forward.

Thank you and thank you all for joining us today. Albemarle is a global leader in transforming essential resources into the critical ingredients for modern living, with people and planet in mind. Our strategy and path to capitalize on the opportunities of electrification over the coming years is clear and we will continue to operate with the discipline operating model to scale and innovate, deliver profitable growth and advance sustainability. We continue to work to be the partner of choice for our customers and the investment of choice for both the present and the future. Thank you for joining us.