Kevin Sayer
DexCom, Inc. (DXCM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Robbie. This is Kevin. I'll take the 15-day sensor timing, and then Jereme can talk about the numbers and the effect on operating margins going forward. As we said earlier this year, we're in the middle of clinical testing and scientific evaluation of some fundamental science changes to the sensor that will make it more reliable for that 15-day period. One of the reasons that we've done so well, two things, the accuracy of our sensor and the performance of our sensor over time. But combined with the fact, people expect to get a certain amount of days from a sensor and we deliver what we tell them we're going to do. And we want to make sure that 15-day experience is every bit as good as the 10-day experience that we offer now. So we're making a few slight changes on a science basis. We'll run a clinical study, file that, and we certainly would expect you to prove.

But right now, we're still evaluating some of the technologies. And we really won't provide a lot of color until we're filed and we see we're on a path towards approval.

Larry, thanks for the question and we have guided at 1%. The purpose of this launch is to get this product out here and learn. And as we look at that 1% of revenue number, we certainly have models to build and support that and we believe in designing this product for the type 2 non-insulin user and others that we're targeting the right segment to go after that. Our most important experience with Stelo is learning and getting it out there and starting to develop and grow this new market. We're confident that this product over time can become a very, very large portion of our business and this can be a very large segment within our markets. This year's launch is all about learning more than anything else and we have a model for that 1%. I would love to exceed it, but if we learn all the lessons that we need to learn, this is not a backbreaker for our company and our guidance either. So the most important thing is to get the product out there and to learn more than anything else.

Now this Kevin I'll take that we don't really, we don't need a clinical trial for Stelo as far as getting that product approved. There is a lot of data on use of continuous glucose monitoring, particularly Dexcom systems in this type 2 diabetes world that will be published by investigators over the course of the next several months, and we'll reference to that and we'll talk to you about that. We know, we have a very good idea where this data comes out because we've seen in all our studies, patients have better outcomes, they're healthier, we end up saving the system money, and those are the outcomes that we're hoping to drive with Stelo over time. With respect to GLP-1s, again, the list of studies ongoing is very large, and there are studies where CGM is an element. Again, we expect those studies when they're published to demonstrate the same things that we've talked about before, that the use of the CGM with the GLP-1 provides a better result than a study without it, and those studies we've published over time, we don't control those investigators, but we expect good data over the course of the year.

Our goal is to do this in a more traditional way over time. As we've said earlier, we'll launch the product as a cash pay product and have a cash pay option, a cash pay that people can get into and purchase the product. We will accumulate data from those users over time. We'll accumulate data, again, from the clinical trials that we see out there, and ultimately build a case for reimbursement for this product. I think over time, we certainly expect to go to CMS and have people with type 2 diabetes who are not insulin-covered at some point in time by that group, because, again, our goal is to spend less money in the healthcare system, and we're one of the few technologies that enables an outcome of that nature. So we see it being more traditional and working with payers and the various government agencies over time. The programs we will continue to support, we're happy to support them and be partners with them.

But I think over time, we need a more traditional reimbursement path, and that can be -- the partnerships and the relationships can be the only way. On top of that, we'll continue to develop our tools around Stelo. This first generation that we launch is going to be our first-pass app. We will have numerous iterations over the course of the first 24 months of that product that really make it a much more inviting and engaging product and lead people to better experiences. So stay tuned for what we have to say on that front over the next 12 months. It's going to be very exciting.

Jereme can probably get into more detail than me. It is a part of our business today, Malgaret. We do have some non-insulin users. Our product, we have some plans that actually cover non-insulin users for CGM, and we've seen and had wonderful experiences there. We've also have not an aggressive cash pay program, but a cash pay program nonetheless where non-insulin users have access to our product through some very traditional distribution channels outside the pharmacy and outside traditional DME. So some of those individuals have purchased CGM and use it on the non-insulin front as well, and we continue to support programs. But it is not a remarkable chunk of our business. It has not been a tremendous driver of our growth. It has grown, but it hasn't been a significant percentage. As we look going forward, certainly again, we gave guidance of 1% for 2024. And we're committed to that and that certainly is our forecast and what we've guided.

We're most committed to learning because what we're really interested in is a number like $200 million like you're talking about for 2025 and to be positioned with the right product there. With respect to pricing and how offer that product we're going to have tremendous flexibility as this is a cash pay program. And it's not labeled for the current population where we have reimbursement and where we're reimbursed for our products. So we believe we'll have again flexibility to grow that and grow it profitably is again we have a 15-day product going into that market. So we will have lower COGS and we're developing a lot of things around that that is a roll out as you see we really are changing the business model to serve this type of individual versus those we've served up to this point in time.

We're going to offer a different experience that will definitely meet their needs across the board. So we're bullish on it over time. I mean it could be very big number in 2025. That's what we're -- that's what we're planning on.

We would like to go as fast as possible. If it were on my time frame it'd be it'd be yesterday. Stelo at 15-day is a primer for that so we can learn and gather data from those users as they use it particularly with our current sensor configuration. As we go through the technology changes that we're making as we dial in on those features that we're going to put in the final product we'll get a pivotal trial started and we'll go but we're learning each and every day. We are not in a position like we were with G7 where we're submitting an entire new system with completely new hardware and new features and new manufacturing lines, new suppliers, new everything. This 15-day product we've built on the same platform our current G7 has built. So the time from finishing a pivotal to filing is not going to be near as intense and difficult as it was with the last product being such as security and Bluetooth and stuff.

We worked through all those issues already. So right now it's really refining the science and getting the 15 days and getting that reliability and quality level that our patients expect from us. We don't view this as an extremely, I think ‘25 is a reasonable assumption, but I'm not going to give you an end date or as to when, because there's too many variables, but we're certainly headed down a path along that type of speed, and then we'll see where we land and give you more updates along the way. I just, filing things or starting things, what's important to us is getting things done, and those should be your milestones as well. So we'll keep you posted, but that's where we are.

I just add to that it feeds to the salesforce investment we're making in the States. We need to educate physicians and patients. And once you get a population of people who have positive outcomes in this space and they go back to their doctors and those conversations start taking place, this becomes easier, but there's a lot of seeding that we have to do to do it and we needed more, more feet on the street to do that.

That is a great question. And that is a very, very pertinent topic of discussion and meeting here within the walls of our company. We are very much evaluating very efficient ways to serve such a large patient group, had a patient group that may interact differently with us than those who've been on insulin over time as we build those models out. So we're looking at distribution models that appear different than what we're doing today, so we can most efficiently get that product to people. And again, starting with cash pay gives us some opportunities to do things a little different than we've done in the past. And so you'll have to stay tuned for that. It's a very thoughtful question and very much in line with everything that's going on here every day.

Thank you very much. It's very easy during these earnings calls to talk about percentages and margins and future technologies, financial guidance, competitors, a whole host of important and engaging topics. But as we wrap up today, I really want to focus on 2023, which is truly the most remarkable year in our history. Let's review these numbers again. $700 million in organic revenue growth, more than a $1 billion in EBITDA, 600, 000 new customers in our active user base, standing up a plant in Asia without missing a beat, and, of course, launching our G7 product all over the world. While best-in-class technology is foundational and fundamental to these types of accomplishment, it doesn't happen without exceptional people going above and beyond. So as we close out 2023, I want to thank our, I guess we are, we're now more than 10, 000 Dexcom employees around the world. Incredibly well done. Thanks everybody.