Kevin Hochman
Brinker International, Inc. (EAT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. From a macro standpoint, our internal metrics continued to improve. So when I say internal metric, talk about server attentive, intent to return, food grade scores, they are all headed in the right direction. From a cohort standpoint, the low-end customer is hanging in there, we haven't seen any change in frequency, quarter to quarter, the high-end customers, or the higher income customers is actually coming more often and then that middle ground, we've seen a little bit of fall off.

But all three of those cohorts are actually spending more than they were a year ago. So the net of it is, it's a little bit mixed, right? You've got a higher income customer that actually is coming more often, the lowest income customer is about the same and that middle ground, we've seen a little bit of drop-off, but yet all three cohorts are spending more.

And then from a traffic standpoint, David. Here's how we're thinking about it. So if fiscal year '23 was kind of a reset year, where we're getting the investments in the right places, taking some pricing to buildup up some dollars to reinvest back into the business, getting out of unprofitable sales. I would characterize fiscal year' 24 as, now we're reinvesting in the business to grow traffic. And so, the biggest change - we talked about several of the traffic initiatives that we're driving in '24, the biggest one I think that would be important for you all of you to know is, going into the deep end on how much money we're going to invest in advertising.

So we're going to move from four weeks of advertising last fiscal to 21 weeks, right? Which is 17 more weeks and Joe kind of articulated in terms of dollar amount of $55 million to $60 million incremental. Why we feel very confident about that is that first four week blast that we did back in March, we saw the first compression of traffic versus the industry trends, even though we're cycling through, getting out of those unprofitable sales and that unprofitable traffic, right? So we saw sequential improvement versus the industry. And so we're very confident that that will continue throughout the year and then accelerate as we cycle out of the things that we're doing to remove the bad traffic.

So, there's going to be two things happening through the fiscal, one is this influx of an additional $55 million to $60 million of TV spend, which we now has proven that will grow traffic and shrink that gap versus the industry. And then the second piece will be as we start rolling off the things that we've been purposely doing to the business strategically, I think you're going to see a sequential acceleration both in market share and in traffic trends.

Yes I zero worry about that. The way I think about advertising and I thought about this throughout my career. There's three things that determine whether you're advertising is going to be impactful or not. First one is, what are you advertising? Like, if your advertise something that's poor, it doesn't matter how good the ad is, it's not going to drive your business. And we've got unbeatable value with 3 for Me and we've got some awesome innovation coming in and our Core Four that I'm very confident about, both the quality of those products, how they look on screen, and how they will drive traffic inside our restaurants.

The second piece of it is the advertising any good? And we've built a world-class team with George Felix and Jesse Johnson, we've just hired a new VP that I don't want to release right now, but that's exciting too. And then we're bringing these world-class agencies into our business. And so, these guys know how to do advertising and they know how to do food advertising and drive people into the restaurants.

And then the third is, do you have enough money set aside to get to the weights, to get to the TRPs that are required to move the needle on the business? And we saw that the first slug of advertising that we did last fiscal, we are very encouraged by what we saw based on the level of spend and the quality of advertising. And the reality is we're going to do that another four times next year or this year.

So, I'm very confident that that's going to continue to close the traffic gap. That's what we've seen in the numbers. So there's nothing that we haven't seen based on what we put in market that would, that would say that strategy is not working, and we'll continue to do that and continue to build on it, because right now it is closing the traffic gap versus the industry and accelerating our market share.

Yes. Again, the momentum we're seeing in the business, we think is sustainable. I mean it's being driven by the initiatives and the strategies. Again, I'm not going to suggest that July or August performance is going to be the exact performance as you go forward. You do get in - the first quarter will have the largest and easiest lap year-over-year, kind of up and down the P&L, which we will be very happy to see the anniversarying of last year's first quarter.

And as you move into the second half of the year, you do have a little bit higher hurdles and laps to get over, but we're very comfortable that we have the strategies and initiatives in place to get over those hurdles as we move forward and very comfortable and confident in the guidance we provided you today.

Yes. So good morning, Chris. So what we're focused right now is, we're still focused primarily on repairs and maintenance of the existing fleet. So making sure that the equipment is in good working order, that the facilities are clean and well maintained. And so, we're spending the majority of those dollars on that.

We are doing some re-imaging of older assets where we tend to get a better return. So these are ones that have been touched on a long, long time, but it's right now, I'll just be candid, it's not as big a priority as making sure the equipment is in good working order and the facility from a dining room standpoint looks, where it needs to be for guests.

I think over time, as we continue to deliver results and accelerate progress, I think we're going to look at that, but I don't view that as like the biggest pressing opportunity right now, based on where we could be putting our investments in terms of driving traffic. The labor investments they'll complete by the end of this year, the ones that we talked about last year. And then the repairs and maintenance. So it's just not as big a priority, as some of these other things, but I would anticipate revisiting that discussion, probably a year from now assuming we have the results that we expect to have.

Yes, I mean that's been a real big bright spot. The way we've - structured menu merchandising and PLP inside the restaurants since we started the new strategy. So number one, it's about making sure that the customer that comes in, for3 for Me or whatever that value messages, they can find it somewhere on the menu, but we don't want to make it so obvious where the guests that didn't come in for that trades down from a Fajita or any of our other items that would drive more check and provide a better experience for that guest at higher price.

So, the results of what we've seen on that is that the 3 for Me mix has come down pretty significantly, even as we've taken pricing. So typically when you take pricing and you do couple waves of it, you typically would expect to see more mix start to shift into the value parts of the menu.

We haven't seen that, in fact we've seen just the opposite where 3 for Me over time has actually gone down from when we started this journey. It looks like it's about flattened out now. So we're not, it's not like we're seeing a bunch of folks now, as we've seen the macro change a little bit, we don't see customers trading into the3 for Me, and I think it's part of it is, because of the way we are orchestrating the menu merchandising.

The one area, I think we can do a little bit better job of actually providing some more presence on value inside the restaurant is our Margarita of the month, where we do - we've seen overall Margarita sales increase, because of the premium margaritas, but we feel like we can get better incidents by just driving a little bit more menu merchandising of Margarita of the month, at the point of purchase, to make sure we get that incidents with all guests.

So, but overall when you just look at the mix of 3 for Me which is the primary value message inside of our restaurants, the direction that it's gone in the last 12 months has been so positive. And oh, by the way, when they are in 3 for Me and more than half of them are not starting at $10.99 they're trading up.

So, we feel like we have a recipe for success on that. And this is, this is a page out of the QSR playbook, where you use great value to drive traffic, and then execute menu merchandising for the guests, that didn't see that ad and - I think we'll continue to do that. I think it's been relatively successful in closing traffic gaps versus the industry, but continuing to drive menu mix in our business.

Yes. We're working on that right now. I'd tell you the managerial side was a lot clearer, because the restaurants are just so significantly easier to work in now. I mean we just had our manager conference last week, I was just kind of blown away by how many managers personally gave me the feedback that it's like night and day different, and that's helping with team member turnover.

So we've seen team member turnover start to come down, but it's not where we need it to be. We want to be ahead of the industry, not average or slightly behind. And so, that's why we're putting together our best Vice President of Operations' minds to come up with, what are some disparate solutions that would allow us to make better - more progress faster on that? Andrew, I wish I knew the exact answer. We would have employed it this past year.

So while we've seen improvement, it's just not where we want it to be. And I'm very confident that with the Vice Presidents making that their obsession metric in '24, we're going to make progress on it. And so, I'm excited to be able to share with you what that plan is at the next quarterly update. But that team is working on it right now.

Yes. We saw little bit of activity that we typically don't see in July, but nothing has really seen out of place. So like, the usual characters are kind of doing their usual messaging. So that's not - we haven't seen any really difference in the behaviors, or the weights. I do think that our move in fiscal '24 will be significantly different than we've done in previous years. The discounts aren't any deeper, but the shouting of them will be obviously a lot more when you move from four weeks to 21 weeks.

We'll continue to monitor that very closely. I do think - when I look at the offers that I've seen from competition and I compare them ours. I'm really confident about ours. I mean I think - guest is cash-strapped to get a complete meal and an abundant complete meal that's very high quality, and to do that at a price point, and you know that you can get it for that price point when you come into the restaurant.

I think it's very, very competitive. Versus like, doing an offer on the part of a meal, or something that you'd have to buy other full price items to complete a meal. So I don't, I don't anticipate needing to change that offer, and I'm excited to see what 21 weeks will do for our business versus four, based on what we've learned what four did for our business.

So, I'm very confident that that plan is going to work, and we'll continue to monitor. We don't want to be naive about what the competitors do, but I do feel like we're in a place - we're in a very good place right now to continue to close that traffic gap.

Yes. So the way to think about it just from a what the customer is actually going to see when they come inside of Chili's. It will show up in two areas. So one will be the new bar menus that will be placed on the bars and in the bar area. And there'll be a prominent page on that menu that just talks about IJW and Chili's collaborating on this, basically a lineup that would be It's Just Wings. So it will be Boneless and Bone-In Wings, different piece counts, all the sauces that are available in It's Just Wings.

And so, that will be very prominent in the bar, because we know that Wings and Boneless Wings are a big thing that people eat at the bar, especially when they're watching sporting occasions. We will also have a smaller section on the dining room menu in the appetizers section, because that would, that would either be an add-on to an existing meal or a trade up from appetizers, given the pricing of wings. So those are the two areas that will show up for the guest.

From outside the restaurant, so because that's when we talk about driving traffic. It's really about like what are we going to be talking about the guests to get them to come in for these Wings primarily it will start with our CRM program. So as I mentioned we have this new CRM agency coming online. And if you look at some of the wing competitors. A big part of their, of their traffic driving program is making sure that they are top of mind aware, during sporting occasions when you're in the market for wings, whether they are to-go wings in off-premise occasion or coming into a bar sports bar to watch sports and eat wings.

And so, we'll have a heavy dose of that to start. And then eventually because it's now a part of Chili's, in theory we could eventually put that in the TV advertising. We have no plans right now to put it in TV advertising, we want to see what happens when we put IJW into the business and does it, does it have some offtake the fact that it would make sense to put on air, but we do think it's going to drive the business at a minimum, a little bit, right? But it could be a bigger thing, depending on what we see with the CRM program results. So at a minimum, it's going to be a trade up, but we do think it could eventually drive some traffic especially during the sports viewing season, which really starts at the start of football.

Yes, I mean, the best way to describe it would be, if you took like an upstart brand and said, okay, you can now have the distribution of Chili's. And you can have access to over 11 million CRM members, like is that something you'd be excited about? And the answer would be yes. Like that is a huge amount of scale that you're bringing to a brand that is relatively small in the grand scope of food, right? That we think that could have some significant impacts to the It's Just Wings businesses.

Well, the way we're thinking about it. We missed a lot of price during the pandemic, we've caught up a little bit versus the industry, but based on the competitors that you cover, I think you can figure out how much we missed over a three year period. So, part of this is, we got to get an equilibrium in our business so that we can make the necessary investments, both in the facility, labor and advertising, to have a growth business going forward, right? So part of that is that we missed a lot.

And the second piece I would say is, I think we're going to be, make sure that we're really sticking to our guns on advertising value. And so that we get credit for value. And value it comes in two ways. One is there's attractive price points for 3 for Me, and talking about the abundance of food.

The other way you deliver values with much better experience. And we're seeing that. So the labor investments that we're putting in, the simplification that we're not scraping the labor front, that we're reinvesting that labor back into the business, is having a significant impact on food grade and server attentive and ultimately intent to return.

So, I believe we're going to continue to have the best value in the industry, even with the pricing that Joe described, because we're going to continue to elevate the experience. And then if you look at like like-for-like pricing versus our competitors, we're either beneath them significantly or at parity with them, So it's not like I feel like we're getting out of whack in anything. If you look at Fajitas and Burgers and Crispers and either right in line or below what you see in all of our markets.

So, there's nothing that's alarming to me, as long as we continue to improve the experience, put those investments back into the business. To me it's about a long-term turnaround and I think we're well on our way. And based on the results that we're seeing, it's encouraging that we're making the right moves on that.

Yes, so, which our team believes in - I'll borrow your term, chunky. So, you'll see blasts once a quarter, where we have high weights that you'll be able to see around tentpole, we call them tentpole events, could be sporting occasions could be other things that are happening in the TV marketplace. And then in between the four tentpole events, you'll see kind of an always-on strategy with digital and social advertising. And then there'll be possible - they call - the team's calling culture pops, which are kind of events or stunts that will just keep Chili's in the news between those big tentpole TV programs.

So to answer your question, it would be more chunky once a quarter, and then you'll see it supplemented with social and digital throughout the year, as well as kind of these PR events, just to keep Chili's top of mind.

Yes. So the agency is literally onboarding in the next few weeks. So, we don't have the new strategy laid out yet. What I can tell you is, it's going to be continued less discounting. So we removed some discounting last year, a significant amount. We're going to continue to remove discounting, probably at a slower pace probably don't need to do it as dramatic as we did last year, but we're going to replace those emails with more relevant emails and more of the relevant emails so that on a per email basis you have a lower redemption, because you're not giving away as much value, but because you're able to send more emails out and they are more relevant, over time, you would expect to get more traffic from those, not less. It just wouldn't cost you as much so.

So for example, a lot more emails around sporting occasions where we know that the guests, either wants to come inside a restaurant or a bar, or be able to carry out food to consume at home and watch this sporting event. You'll see more of that you'll see more relevance around other occasions like week day dinner and making sure that we're driving our carry out business. We just weren't doing those things in the old CRM program, was really about what you could get for free from us versus like here's how Chili's fits in your life, based on these occasions, whether it's going out to eat or easy home or replacement at home.

So I expect that will be the strategy now how GALE brings it to life. I think, I think you can look at some other restaurant brands that they work with. Part of the reason why we're so excited about them coming on as we've seen them really transform another restaurant programs or CRM program, and we think that we want. We want exactly that. So that will give you more, some more insight about how we're thinking about transforming our CRM program over time.

Yes, I mean I think. I think what you just said is probably right. As you'd see it first alcohol attachment, both in terms of incidents and trade down. And then eventually, you either see it in lower appetizers. And my guess is, you'll probably see more people trade into 3 for Me, just because it comes with an appetizer and it's a relatively low price, but we just haven't seen that yet. So for example, quarter-on-quarter, the 3 for Me mix basically is unchanged. Number of checks on deal was basically unchanged. And then, we've seen overall higher mix - significantly higher mix in this quarter and we don't expect that to change at least in the near term.

So, but I do think that the types of things that you would see, and so likely, what you would do is make sure that things like the Margarita of the month is more prominent, so that guests know they can get $5 or $6 Margarita, as well as potentially looking at making sure that they understand there's 3 for Me there if we feel like there is a pullback, but so far we haven't seen it, but I think you're thinking about it right, those were the first places that you'd see.

Yes, I mean I don't have that data, I haven't seen it cut by demos, but it's certainly something we can look into. If there's like, there's an insight in that question that we should take a look at, but I don't have that answer, Katherine

Thank you everybody. Everybody have a good day.