Kevin Ali
Organon & Co. (OGN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So let me take that, Umer. It's good to hear from you. Yes, you heard me at JPM be very declarative that we are very committed to be able to service our dividend. And there was a question around free cash flow. And clearly, I mean, with $940 million, it gives us quite a bit of space in order to be able to comfortably not only pay our dividend, but also do some of the tuck ins that you've seen like most recently with the Lilly deal.

So absent any major M&A, which is not what we're looking at, we're looking at tuck-ins because they we've been able to prove and I've signaled in my script, the kind of size that these all these tuck-ins pulled together actually represent. They're very meaningful. And so dividend continues and it's our focus. And in regards to your last question around free cash flow, it just essentially networking capital that we started to work greater on our focus on networking capital and more specifically around ERP costs started to come down a little bit less than we'd anticipated. So overall, we believe it's a very solid sign that we can continue to drive to a billion dollars of free cash flow in this year.

Oh, good. Jason. Yes. Can you hear me?

Yes. You got cut off on Teva and FDA Nexplanon.

Yes, Jason, there's nothing that I see from the FDA in terms of guidance around kind of breaking the patent that we have. Clearly, through the end of 2027. But the issue to keep in mind and more importantly, right, whoever announces what their intent is in terms of their focus on where they want to come in next.

The FDA has never approved any complex generic drug during the first cycle review. I mean we expect -- historically, it's been anywhere between 2.5 year to 4-year approval time line from the initial ANDA submission. I'll give you an example. For us, NuvaRing, which is by far much less complex, by far, by a magnitude of many times than something like Nexplanon, which is a medicated vaginal ring for contraception.

The first generic received FDA approval after almost a 30-month delay and Teva's NuvaRing, now that you're bringing up Teva, Teva's NuvaRing generic took 8 years to get to the market. If we take that time line, you're talking about a 2030 minimum introduction. And on top of that, we have the -- you're going to have to have your own proprietary device.

Our device, our applicator device has patent protection through 2030. So you're going to have to do your own proprietary applicator device design and then launch it. And finally, you're going to have to start investing in sales force and medical affairs people because you need to have people who actually are training physicians in order to be able to insert and remove this product. And keep in mind, finally, this is a buy-and-build product.

This is not a normal product in that respect. It's much more difficult. So I have been saying for years and I can get into all the intricacies that I do not expect any major issue with Nexplanon between now and the end of the decade. I do expect that we're going to have the data at the end of this year for the 5-year indication, and we'll be able to launch that probably when we decide in the 2025, 2026 timeframe, which will take essentially exclusivity through the end of the decade.

Yes. Let me start -- Navann, let me start with the last question and move backwards. So we're getting -- since the beginning, we've really been focused on essentially the PBMs and payers and providers across the country who are focused on low net cost. And essentially, we're getting we are getting some of the uptake that we're having actually involved in terms of the different PBMs that we've gotten to date, and we continue to add more PBMs on.

Our excess focus has been really very successful. You've heard the most recent news that we were named as a sole manufacturer for biosimilars for Humira for the VA. So that's a very nice tuck-in. And that will have a halo effect as well in the rest of the communities that actually have heavy VA type of participation.

So we continue to see the market form in 2024, as I've been saying. More market formation, although it will be a stronger year, obviously, for Hadlima this year. And then you'll see much more of a breakthrough than what I would consider to be the breakthrough in 2025 and beyond.

So that's what I would signal in terms of our access capacities. And in terms of your first question around cost management, look, I mean, we know what we know now. When we spun out 2.5 years ago, there was -- there were inefficiencies around the company that we've been able to really kind of tailor down on.

And so all the kind of discussions that we're having about OpEx savings in this year are not onetime in character. They are the kind of things that we can continue to be able to deliver going forward. So it's not as if you'll see a bounce back of our OpEx next year, but rather just continuing focus on efficiencies to go forward. And then the final question was on Nexplanon and America for tenders.

Yes. So look, I mean, we had that news are on Mexico tender last year, but there's no further declines this year. There's no more -- I mean we're actually starting to see significant growth in Mexico, again, outside of the tender business. So we don't see that as being at all in 2024 as a headwind. Rather, we see a lot of tailwinds for Nexplanon in 2024. It will be a solid year in 2024, no doubt.

And Balaji, in terms of your question around Hadlima and what we expect this year. I mean we're not giving kind of guidance by product, but what I will say is this, we are currently the number one market shares we've seen in terms of TRx and NRx among all the six or more that were launched last January. We actually passed Amgevita for TRx performance and that were launched six months before.

So we feel very strong about our performance. And in terms of interchangeability, that's going to -- they've already basically finished the study, submitted. So we expect to have interchangeability within, what, four months from now. So it is not going to be a major factor for us in terms of the opportunity to compete. We're in a very strong position. As I've said, if the market goes from $20 billion peak net revenue for Humira and down ultimately one day in the future, down to, let's just say, worst case scenario, $2 billion, a 90% discount to that original peak.

And you've got a -- I've always said, you got to be in the top two or three. We're number one right now. But let's assume that we're conservatively in the top two or three, we'll be able to deliver the type of peak revenues that we said we were going to do and a couple of hundreds of millions. It's just that the time continuum stretches out a bit, that's all.

And Chris, great to hear your voice. And I will say that in regards to essentially to our BD component. If you think about the Emgality product in terms of launch in the European Union, we see that as essentially a $170 million peak revenue business. If you put all of the BD stuff that we've done, just the commercial stage assets that we've done since spin, we're talking about -- when you put all the peaks together, you're talking about $750 million of potential, obviously, upside opportunities in terms of growth.

We are working on a lot of generic -- a lot of regional business development deals. I mentioned to you when I saw you in San Francisco that we've got some China for China deals lined up, we've got some European deals more lined up. So to answer your question, it's not a one-off, there's plenty in the queue that ultimately we can go after that are really nice opportunities for continuing revenue growth and EBITDA growth.

Karishma, it's -- look, I mean, we're very confident on what we're going to do this year with our Women's Health franchise. If I pull it apart, we decided to take a new kind of go-to-market approach to pricing for Nexplanon. We're going to take full pricing this year. We've reduced our 340B voluntary discount. We pulled that. So there's going to be a lot of reasons to believe the Nexplanon will continue to do very -- this will be a strong year for Nexplanon globally because we don't have some of the headwinds we started with last year.

And ultimately, we're in a good position, and Nexplanon itself has now taken over the number one position in the large segment in the United States, which represents about 70% of our business globally. So we feel very good about that.

Fertility. Fertility grew 9%, as I mentioned, high single digits last year and this year, we assume the same driven in large part by China and the U.S. We put the China and the U.S. businesses together, that represents about 60% of our overall business, but then we've got opportunities in some of the regions like the Lamera region, which we've had some recent launches and opportunities to continue to even drive hopefully beyond the high single-digit area, but that's what we're focused on right now.

And you're talking about Jada. Jada is -- the opportunity there is to really -- I mean, we're at the steep end of the launch curve. We did very well with over $40 million of sales just in the U.S. We have opportunities to do two things with Jada to see it to continue to move to its peak, what I would consider global peak in the in terms of the $200 in terms of millions because now we're launching in the EU this year sometime during the -- between now and the end of the year.

We're launching in a number of other emerging market countries. And so we have opportunities to really drive the EU. And then we got Brazil launch in the end of 2023, which is a very large and nice piece of business to get as well. So that's Jada.

And then when we talk about oral contraceptives, oral contraceptives continue, and we had -- we brought back the Marvelon, Mercelon business in the Asia Pacific region, including China, Vietnam, Macau, and that continues to do well with more than 25% growth in 2023 and continuing double-digit growth that we see strong double-digit growth with that oral contraceptive franchise.

So you put those things together, and you see that our women's health businesses is diversified. It's getting stronger. We had a launch of Xaciato. It's very small right now in the U.S. And then we'll see how that comes through. But we're in discussions right now with payers in order to get formulary acceptance. And hopefully, that will start to really kind of generate some nice additional revenue growth for the Women's Health franchise as we go forward. So all of that is coming through.

And then, of course, our pipeline is actually filled with some very nice assets. The first and foremost and probably the most important will be 6219, a very unique mechanism of action to treat. Nothing has been done before I like it to treat endometriosis. Our Phase II data will read out sometime next year, hopefully, in the first half of next year, and then we'll have potentially an asset we can talk much more about in terms of really a breakthrough asset for the treatment of endometriosis.

Thank you. Thank you. We're entering 2024. As you've heard from the discussion this morning, feeling very good about delivering our third year of constant currency growth as a stand-alone company. Nexplanon and Fertility are positioned for strong performance in 2024. We expect another year of double-digit growth in our Biosimilars franchise, and we continue to demonstrate our ability to really ensure continued performance of our established brands business.

Look, the combined businesses generate what we expect to be close to $1 billion of free cash flow before onetime charges in 2024. This gives us ample financial flexibility to continue to service our dividend continue to execute on our business development agenda and to make progress towards achieving a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of below four by the end of this year. I thank you very much, and we look forward to the next time we speak.