Kevin Blair
Synovus Financial Corp. (SNV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Jon.

Good morning.

Yeah, Michael. When we look at this slide, I think it speaks to the diversity of our revenue and how we've continued to try to add new sources of growth that allows us to take on some of the headwinds. And so whether it's the sell of a business or just reducing our NSFOD income or seeing a movement on products like repo, where we've been very successful this last year. If you look at the left-hand side of that chart, banking as a service is GreenSky, which we're continuing to work through the contractual -- finalizing the contract there. And we still expect that to represent a sizable increase in income in 2024. But also within banking as a service, we're expanding our offerings within our merchant acquiring company where we own a majority interest in Qualpay. We've expanded our sponsorship of third-party ISOs. And so all of those banking as a service programs will contribute growth year-over-year. Treasury and payment solutions, if you look at the last three years, we've grown at 20%. We expect that to continue to increase in 2024 with some repricing opportunities as well as continued expansion of our sales practices. Wealth was up 11% this past year. We expect -- with AUM growing 8%, we expect that to continue to grow based on the talent and the success of our business model. Capital markets, as we've expanded CIB and our wholesale bank, we've continued to grow, that's up 20% in '23 and that will continue to grow in '24. And then, we've seen some traction on some of the government-guaranteed gains, whether that's USDA or SBA loans. And so when you look at all of those, it will help to offset those headwinds, and we think we'll get a little bit of growth in NIR this coming year as a result of that.

Good morning.

Yeah. I think the percent growth in revenue is much more of a function of the decline in the NIM from first quarter to fourth quarter. And so when you look at a full year-over-year increase in revenue, it shows that negative number. But when you look at it more on an inflection point and you go back to fourth quarter earnings from '23 versus fourth quarter of '24, what you'll see is that there's an 8% to 10% growth in PPNR. And I think that's what does get me excited. And it really does show the strength of our model, Steve, and our footprint and our ability to grow. But what you're seeing when you look at year-over-year is much more of the financial metrics declining in margin during '23, which makes that year-over-year comparison look muted. But when you look at it on a more apples-to-apples basis, fourth quarter versus fourth quarter, you're looking at an 8% -- 10% growth in bottom line, which I think, again, is much more constructive and supporting of our growth story.

It is, Brady. And look, I said this on a previous call, the number could be between $20 million and $30 million in revenue for the go-forward program. And it's really a function more so of what the underlying production is of the new entity. And so we'll continue to generate revenue based on that production, and we'll get a maintenance administration fee on anything that still sits on the book. So our revenue will be much more tied to the production volumes that they're doing. But again, I think a good rule of thumb for this coming year is $20 million to $30 million.

Look, I'm happy with where our business mix sits today. I think there are opportunities to continue to over-invest in certain businesses, whether that's our middle market platform, our private wealth platform, our banking as a service. And so you'll see us continue to make strategic investments in those areas. But as it relates to things like loan sales or exiting businesses, I think those -- you will not see a lot of that going forward. And when you look at our loan slide we provided this quarter, and you look at where we grew, some of those strategic growth engines, like middle market, specialty, community bank are growing, where you see strategic declines in things like our third-party consumer, which will continue to decline for the foreseeable future, as well as national accounts. Those won't be sales, but they'll be slow drawdowns of those balances because they're not obviously relationship focused. But the wild card on growth really comes in those market activity declines that we saw this past quarter, where you see institutional CRE, where payoffs are increasing because they've been at historically low levels or senior housing, same thing, we're seeing a more constructive marketplace for sales and refinance activity with some of the agencies. And so, as I look at the business and just put loans on that as an example, I feel really good about where we are. We'll be growing some faster than others. We'll be strategically shrinking some portfolios, but you won't see the dramatic balance sheet or business mix optimization like we've seen in '23.

Good morning, Brandon.

And, Brandon, just to add a little more to that answer. The first quarter, the core CDs that are maturing, the average rate is just over 4%. It's about 4.05%. And so the marginal impact of that to the margin is much less than it was in the fourth quarter, as Kevin mentioned. And then as we look forward in 2024, our core deposit growth will be led by money market in 2024, which will be a little bit of a change from 2023. And so we believe that that will also be a positive when you think about total deposit costs going forward.

Thank you, Brandon.

Good morning.

Well, look, from a healthcare perspective, you have to look at it really across two different areas. On C&I, it's about 7% of our balances, and a lot of that is on the senior housing side. We talk about managing down our exposure there. It was really more around the fact that we've seen more payoff activities. And so we feel really good about where we are in senior housing. When you look at some of the losses that we incurred this quarter, there were a handful of losses, and Bob can touch on that. But we feel very good about the overall exposure. And so we're not trying to manage down our exposure in healthcare. Some of it has been just the fact that we've started to see a more constructive market in terms of payoff activity. And put that in broader perspective, when we talk about that, we had about a $1.2 billion in payoffs this past quarter. We've been running about $700 million to $800 million a quarter in our loan book, so about $500 million more in payoffs. If you look at a three-year average, we generally run about $1.3 billion in payoff activities. So we're back to a more normalized level. So you could continue to see things like senior housing and some other CRE portfolios decline, just given the fact that production has slowed and payoff activities picked up. Bob, if you want to touch on some of the credit metrics?

You go ahead.

Well, number one, it could trigger line utilization increasing just as rates come down. We did see a modest increase in just same line balances this past quarter. But as, you know, Chris, for the last several quarters, we've seen folks using their cash to pay down lines. So I think lower rates will drive up some line utilization, one. Short term, if rates are going lower, it tells us that the economy is slowing, so there may be a latent impact of that. But longer-term or more moderate term, yes, I think it could drive up C&I as people are looking at projects again and starting to expand their facilities or add inventory as prices come down and the economic -- the underlying economic conditions remain constructive. Yes, it would result in having stronger loan growth in that, kind of the out quarters.

Thank you, Chris.

Yeah.

It is. That’s right.

Thanks, Brody.

Thank you, Drew. And thank each of you for your attendance this morning, as well as your questions and continued interest in Synovus. I also want to once again thank all of our team members for your contributions in 2023. From meaningful progress on important priorities and strategic investments to the solutions delivered and the exceptional client experiences, you make it happen on a daily basis. While we receive the 2023 number one ranking in customer satisfaction and trust in the southeast from JD Power, our goal is to raise our client service levels even higher in 2024 and beyond.

And as we cast our eyes towards 2024, we are embracing a new mantra, grow the bank. This signifies our shift back to a growth mindset after a year where external challenges necessitated a more defensive stance. However, our pursuit of growth will be marked by prudence and will be fully aligned with our strategic goals and objectives. We will cultivate growth by amplifying the client experience, streamlining touch points, and continuing to be more proactive at providing valuable advice to our clients. In addition, our model facilitates delivering seamlessly across our lines of business and products and solutions which will allow us to further deepen our relationships and increase our share of wallet. At the same time, we're committed to preserving and even improving key elements of our safety and soundness profile here at Synovus. Starting with improving our core deposit base to retaining levels of capital that put us in a strong position relative to our peers, and lastly, delivering credit metrics that prove the efforts taken over the last several years to diversify and fortify the balance sheet, especially during periods of economic stress. As we recommit to this growth journey, we will continue our efforts to de-risk and enhance our profile amidst continued market uncertainties. Therefore, grow the bank in 2024 signifies our intent to build an even stronger, more client-focused and risk-resilient bank, well equipped to navigate the complexities that will continue to present themselves this year and in the years to come.

As always, we look forward and appreciate your continued partnerships and we look forward to meeting with many of you this quarter at upcoming industry conferences. With that, operator, we will now conclude our earnings call.
