Kevin Akers
Atmos Energy Corporation (ATO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

You are.

I mean, again, we've been at this 3% to 3.5% projection on O&M now for quite a long time. We feel comfortable in that range. As you know, we've used different levers over time when needed to mitigate any of the O&M pressures that we see coming down the road.

And again, with some of the additional pullback in some of our service territories in the housing market, we've seen line locates costs come down, we've seen other compliance costs come down. So we remain confident as we head into '24 right now that what we have projected out there, of the $780 million to $800 million, we feel very confident in.

Yes, again, I'll reiterate what I said previously. There towards the last quarter, we saw some of the line locating requests drive down just a few percentage points in some of our jurisdictions. Even though here in Texas, we saw an 8% increase. So that's what we were looking at there. That certainly reduced some of our compliance costs. Then again with some of our other compliance activity and timing of those sort of things, we think we've got a good handle on what the next year, the 3- to 5-year window looks like on planned O&M activity, compliance activity, those sort of things.

So those were some of the drivers we were looking at that came out of the last quarter and allowed us to stay in that 3% to 3.5% range and at $780 million to $800 million O&M.

Yes. I just want to reemphasize that the plan does reflect, as Chris said, they're us becoming a tax cash payer out in that time frame. So that's all backed into the plan that's out there.

Julien, it's part of our ongoing strategy with whether they're contractors or internal labor. We always look at what's going on in the market where we have contracts as we look at those on an annual basis to see if they need adjustment, forecasted work for them, and any strategic opportunities we may have to in-source opportunities there to offset some of the cost taking a longer-term view.

So all those options remain on the table as they have in the past, but we continue to look at these on an annual basis. So that's where we get the comfort in that range that we put out there right now.

Now again, with the growth that I talked about on the front end and the population and trending that we've seen out there, that's all been baked into the plan out there, all the labor or anticipated labor, the current contracts we have in place, the labor rates that are out there right now, we have baked all that into the plan.

Yes, Ryan, the other thing I'd say, Chris, is spot on with that is, we do -- given the economic growth that we've seen across our service territory, there are times when jurisdictions would want to pull forward projects, whether they're water, sewer related or there's fiber things going on, fiber projects out there that we'll have to move and adjust to as well based upon their time line. It may not be seasonably ratable, but it may be in a quarter it may show up.

So again, we have to get the work done when we need to get the work done and work with our communities to make sure we're in concert with their projects as well.

