Kevin Wheeler
A. O. Smith Corporation (AOS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mike.

We can. I hope you can hear us also.

And maybe I'll just comment, Mike, that, it's been a couple lumpy years, right? I mean, we've had COVID and been a bit of a correction last year. We think the industry this year will be up maybe in that 5.5% to 6%. But if we kind of step back to 2019 and just look at a growth rate of 1.5%, we kind of we end up at what we think our outlook is going to be for 2024, along with, those assumptions that Kevin just mentioned. So it feels like a fairly stable residential market for us as we go into '24.

Hey, Jeff.

Yes. I would just tell you that our philosophy has always been on pricing that we feel the cost before our customers do. And so as much as steel bounces up and down, there's still other parts of components and other chemicals and so forth. And so our increase is always based on what we have to address going forward with our suppliers. And the cadence, it's off a little bit. We pushed it out to March, and that's pretty rare, but it happens on occasion. Our goal has always been and will continue to be to keep our customers competitive and the price increase along with the timing really reaches that goal for us.

It's certainly coming off some comps. You can get a reminder, first quarter of last year was a pretty good year, a strong quarter for us on the boiler side. And we didn't see stocking until starting in the second quarter. But much of it has to do with coming off some comps, inventories coming down, getting back to our regular cadence. And we always get a little tripped up on sell out or sell in. You remember our sell in was down, but our sell out, we felt we held our own in the market.

So overall, the boiler market is slightly down on some quoting. Residential has been a headwind for us most of the year that we look at turning that around in 2024. But overall, the market is a combination of comps and some of our new products. Our CREST with LCAP technology continues to grow. We outlined how much it's growing this year or last year. So a combination of getting back to our normal cadence and some new product offerings is how we get to that 8% to 10%.

Good morning, Susan.

Yes. Again, we've been watching it and it's held pretty steady for a long time. Certainly, as we go forward and look at it, we still see housing renovation, even though things are going to be relatively flat, people are staying in the homes. We think housing renovation is still going to be a big part of how we go forward. And where it goes long term, we're still trying to get our arms around it. We talked a little bit about some generational issues that we've seen. But overall, right now in 2024, we're confident that the proactive replacement will stay steady. And we'll continue to monitor it as we continue over the years.

Well, I'll start with North America water heating. We entered the year this year, pretty strong January. And I think we maybe had a little bit lower channel inventories coming into 2023. But we feel like we're in great shape, very normalized on North America water heating. On the boiler and water treatment side, I think we still feel a bit ahead when as we go through the end of 2023, but feel like we're going to exit the year in a good position of normalized inventories. In China, all the channel inventories are pretty much very normal kind of event for a while and kind of continue in that normalized zone.

Good morning.

Q4 came in a little bit stronger than we expected and mostly on the residential side and we held our own and got our fair share of that. And so that was a nice positive plus. I think we've talked about being up four, being close to six in the residential side of the business. I will see how that actually comes out specifically. And I will tell you January gets early and January was a pretty strong month, particularly on the water heater side of the business. But orders remain strong. I mean, we continue to track towards our guidance. So in a one month view, we feel pretty good about what we're at. And I would just tell you orders are fairly strong across all of our businesses starting the year. Again, one month doesn't make a year, but we're off to a good start.

Yes. Just to add on the tankless side of it, we are building inventory as we speak. [Audio-Gap] on the ground in, we'll launch in late March. We've already taken orders for it. And we're excited about it. One, that we own the technology, we're manufacturing, but more importantly, the first product that we're bringing to market, which is a condensing premix, has all the features that quite frankly, we've been a little bit hamstrung with our product line.

So two inch band, half inch connection, better flow rates are all, our team's excited about getting in the market and being able to compete. So we'll start in March. Early indications from a lot of customers are pretty excited about the product. We're excited about the product. But as Chuck mentioned, this will be a ramp that we'll start this year and continue to gain momentum over the next couple of years.

Yes, I'll touch on that, maybe Chuck will jump in on it. We've not seen much change on our mix. And I would tell you that we're, our good is premium good. And I mean, we're not down in the low end of the market. But throughout even the pandemic and even into the last year, and how we're looking going into 2024, our premium price products that premium sector of the market has held up. It's not growing, but it's holding. And so our mix looks relatively the same as it has over the last several years. And we feel pretty good about that considering the consumers not as engaged as it needs to be. And we look at that as being upside as that consumer confidence grows a bit.

I would just maybe add on to that. I mean, our pipeline is active, and we continue to look at spaces not only within our core, certainly water treatment, but geographic expansions, and even levering, potentially our customers and footprints that we have in various industries. So a lot of different spots on the board. We're engaged on a pretty regular basis with a number of companies. And again, just a matter of not it, but when the time comes about. But again, when we look at acquisitions, culture is exceptionally important for us in making sure that we find the right company that fits within A.O. Smith. On top of that, we are going to stay disciplined in making sure that we can return to our shareholders. So putting that all in context, we feel really good about the pipeline, and we'll see if we can bring some of those home in 2024.

Hey Andy.

Yes, we need a better economic backdrop to achieve that. I mean, we really are in a situation now where we feel good about the cost we've taken out at the level we're at. Feel like we can leverage growth going forward, but we need to get the economy back. We need to get housing formation kind of reignited so that we've got a larger portion of the market that is growing in house formation. As you know, most of the water heaters go in when an individual moves into their home, even if it's a new construction. We're pleased we've got 60% replacement on the water heating side, so in the meantime, we're very happy with the resiliency of the business at the levels we're at, but we will need some economic help to kind of achieve that expansion.

Good morning.

Yes. Details on pricing are really within our strategy here. We've always evaluated each time we bring a price increase to market. And early on, as we discussed, we make sure that we're addressing costs. We always make sure that we feel the cost before our customers is. And the bottom line we're at today is what's going to keep our customers competitive and that's really all we're going to say on the pricey side of this.

Yes. Most of the growth that we see in 2024 relates to commercial business and water treatment, water treatment overall, particularly consumables. And then, we do see some growth in our kitchen products that are newly introduced. Overall, the core products were relatively flat year-over-year. I mentioned a little bit earlier about, we've kind of seen the stabilization of maybe what's being sold into the premium side. So, we think we're in a good spot for when the economy does come back, but we're looking at relatively year-over-year or flat for our core products.
