Khozema Shipchandler
Twilio Inc. (TWLO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, sure. Hey, Meta, I'll start with the Segment part of it and Aidan can answer the gross margin part of it. So on Segment, I mean, some of the indicators that we're looking at is sequential bookings, and we did see improvement in Q4, but as we alluded to, it's not exactly where we'd like it to be. And I think just the overall pace of the improvements that we were anticipating and that we would expect of ourselves, they're just kind of not meeting our expectations.

I think we've also seen consistent win rates over the course of the year. And again, we did see a modest improvement in the win rate in Q4. And notably, Q4 was sort of our best new logo bookings performance as well, actually since 2021. And so, we feel pretty good about that, at least in terms of trajectory, but again, have work to do.

And then just finally, it's the number one CDP, at least based on the most recent report by Market Share as determined by IDC. And we think that just based on what we've been able to do with it and customer AI and how we can expand it across our Segment product portfolio that there's just more that we can do there. But as we said, it's strategically important, but we definitely do think we can do a better job in terms of running that part of the business.

Yes. I mean, I can't get too far into it because we can't disclose the customer names, but we're certainly proud of the fact that we're able to score both of those deals. They're each is a little bit unique just based on kind of the customer type that's involved in each one. I think that those are both kind of multi-year arrangements, and so there's an opportunity for that revenue to continue over a period of time. Like, that's kind of the typical contract duration length that we typically see, and we should see that revenue over the next quarter or two.

Yes, this is Khozema. I'll take the question. In short, no. The way that I would characterize it is that, the success of the company is really built on the innovation and quality of our offering. And so I'm aware of what you're kind of referring to, and we never really comment on any specific competitor. I think the reality of what we do is that, we deliver a really broad and innovative set of solutions for our Communications customers and we charge a fair price for it. And so whether it's the breadth of our channels, the reliability of our super network, or the global scale, all of those factors are in the mix in terms of the way that we serve customers and serve them very, very well.

We've made a lot of investments in compliance and fraud mitigation as well, to ensure users aren't stuck paying for fraudulent messages either. And we just want to ensure that we deliver great experiences. And fundamentally, we think that that's a better setup for Twilio and our customers. And we've had a long history, really, of maintaining price discipline. And so, we've been able to compete very, very successfully with folks that are on the lower end of the market and maintain, if not grow, our market share over time.

Yes, as it relates to Segment and kind of CDP more broadly, and I think your question was really towards its connection with Communications. I think that we do see a lot of opportunity there in terms of our ability to combine our data offering with our Communications offering. And we've started to launch a handful of products that do exactly that, bring together kind of all of the best capabilities of Twilio within single offerings. You see that today, for example, in our Flex Unify offering, which has been announced relatively recently.

I think as it relates to the need and value of a CDP, like, we're certainly open-minded about the way that we want to create value for the company. I think first and foremost, we're very, very focused on durable and profitable growth. We alluded to the fact that we are undergoing an operational review of Segment and with an eye towards value creation, again demonstrated through durable, profitable growth. I think that Segment happens to be a pretty unique asset that we think remains strategically important. We do think that having first-party data combined with Communications has a lot more inherent value than just a standalone CDP.

All that said, I think there are a lot of opportunities for us to be able to improve the way in which we're doing things. And we talked about some of the executional things that we want to get better on. But I think having Segment deeply embedded with others in the data ecosystem, we have opportunities to do that and then also pursuing partnerships with other ISVs. I think there's an opportunity there too. And so, we're not taking anything off the table per se, but we do think that we have a really interesting asset. We'll have a lot more to share in March when we complete our operational review.

Yes. I mean, it's effectively over, is the short answer. The fees are abating and Aidan kind of alluded to that being one of the reasons for the margin step down Q3 to Q4. There were accelerated fees in Q3 as a result of an acceleration in registrations to be able to meet the deadline. That deadline since passed, I think we alluded to in prior remarks that 99% plus of our customers were able to get through that process. And so, the balance of those, we wouldn't anticipate ending up there for a variety of reasons. And there's actually nothing to talk about that. So that's kind of where we are and it's behind us.

No, they were one-time registration fees associated with that process, and so they were [indiscernible] in this regard.

Yes, both good questions. So I'd say just kind of -- just to maybe start with like at sort of the strategy and vision level, like, I wouldn't really anticipate a material diversion there. I think at the end of the day we want to build out the world's leading customer engagement platform. And I think that we pointed out a few opportunities in which we can improve our execution. But I think you've already seen like really, really strong progress on the Communication side and we certainly intend to continue that.

I'd say, secondly, we're very focused on profitable growth and as you said, I mean, we have made a lot of strides there. The margin rates have uplifted quite a lot. I think that we definitely do have an opportunity to improve our sales execution across the business and grow the company faster. And I think we can do it from a structurally more profitable position. I think we have an opportunity, for example, with ISV relationships. We have an opportunity to improve in self-serve and we can continue to build off of some of our cross-sell opportunities as well in our product portfolio to deliver faster growth.

As well, I mean, I think innovation has always kind of been at the heart of what we've tried to do at Twilio. And I think sticking just to Communications, I think that we have a number of AI-related products that we've been able to put into our roadmap, examples being Voice Intelligence, Fraud Guard, Flex. We've got a lot of other products and features still to come.

I'd say there's a kind of close cousin to that which is inside the company there's a lot of automation of internal processes that I think are a big opportunity that will help us become more efficient, also allow us to serve our customers better. That could be in the back office, that could be the resiliency of our platforms, could be increasing developer productivity, for example, with copilots and the like. And so, I do think that there's opportunity for additional volume leverage in that business. And it's really a combination of both focusing on increased profits while also lowering increased growth.

Yes, good question. I think it's an opportunity. I think in the short term, we don't really see a significant impact from the adoption of RCS on the business. I think we see peer-to-peer messaging as having the greatest impact in terms of improving the messaging experience between iOS and Android, probably less so in the near term on A2P. I think we do support RCS and A2P business messaging and we do think it can ultimately help customers deliver richer, more engaging messages. I don't think it's necessarily a near-term dynamic, but I think over the medium to long-term, it is an opportunity for the business.

Thanks.

Yes. And then in terms of the growth drivers, let me just kind of split it between Communications and Segment. So in Communications, what we're really focused on is use case-based selling, streamlining our customer self-serve process and CustomerAI. And we're obviously not providing guidance for 2024, but we do have a number of initiatives across the business. And I think where we've really been focused is in partnering in those areas that I just alluded to a moment ago.

I think AI in particular allows us an opportunity to deliver really innovative solutions. We're already starting to see that in Verify, for example, for omnichannel authentication. We see it in Unify for more personalized customer engagement on the front lines, and then also Voice Intelligence for richer, very actionable insights from customer conversations. And then as well, we're leaning into our ISV partnerships where we are seeing strong growth as we help them scale their businesses and we think there's an opportunity to partner better there. And then finally, we're continuing to improve on our self-serve capacity, streamlining, onboarding, billing, compliance, stuff like that.

In terms of Segment, our first priority is really just in mitigating churn and contraction. In customer conversations what we're leading with is core use cases around personalization, ad spend optimization, and driving cross-sell. And we do think we have an opportunity to help our customers kind of streamline their implementations and enable faster time to value.

Yes, I can maybe just follow up again. I think Aidan alluded to it earlier that we certainly do have some optionality, given our balance sheet, as well as the cash flow characteristics of the company. We're not providing any guidance as it relates to capital allocation. We're going to do some work as a part of our kind of ongoing operational review, and in March we'll provide any updates around capital allocation as well as the other elements of our financial framework.

Yeah, I wouldn't point to any one of those events as being items that we're looking at to provide a driver of growth. I also wouldn't point to kind of macro dynamics. I would say we're really in a position in which we want to be able to produce our own kind of durable growth. As I mentioned earlier, like some of the areas that we're really focused on is use case-based selling, self-serve and CustomerAI.

I think one of the ways in which we've really tried to approach our customers through the lens of the problems that they're trying to solve versus just necessarily the products that we have in our bag. I mentioned a few examples of that a moment ago in terms of Verify as it relates to omnichannel authentication, Unify for personalized customer engagement, and then Voice Intelligence for richer customer conversations. And so those are all areas where we do anticipate that we'll be able to lift growth. I think AI in particular is a really exciting opportunity in which we have an opportunity to enrich Communications, also combine data, our data capabilities with Communications.

And then finally, as it relates to Segment, again, as I mentioned a moment ago, I think it's really the priority is to mitigate churn and contraction. And I think if we can do all those things, then it's really much more around our control and doesn't actually have much to do with the election or the Olympics.

Yes, I wouldn't necessarily read any of those things into it. However, what I will say is that on the one hand, Segment is strategically important to the company, but on the other hand, we are approaching the review that we talked about with an open mind. We know the business is underperforming. We definitely do believe that we can execute better, and we're just approaching the operational review with an open mind so that we can determine the best path forward. Our overall priority as a company, whether it's Comms or Segment, is durable, profitable growth.

And as it relates to the March framework, what we said is that beyond the guidance that we obviously provided today, any other elements of our financials, whether it be capital allocation or kind of medium-term targets, et cetera, we would provide in March, in addition to any operational changes that we would make with respect to Segment.

We're kind of targeting early March. Earnings would be much later in April [Multiple Speakers]

Yes, I think more broadly speaking. I'll take the second question, perhaps first. I think that there is an opportunity to do more cross-selling across the company. We've talked about the opportunity, for example, in the way that we can do a Communications deal and transform that, for example, into a Verify deal where we can do omnichannel authentication. We talked a little bit about Unify, for example, which allows for personalized customer engagement on the front lines. That combines the best of Flex with sort of the best of Segment. And then Voice Intelligence is sort of another area where we've got a lot of existing voice customers. We have an opportunity to use AI as a means to add to their existing capabilities, richer, much more actionable insights. And so we think those are all like really interesting ways in which sort of writ large, we can add a lot of value in terms of the way that we cross-sell into our existing business.

As it relates to Flex, I would say -- I mean, not a lot of changes, honestly, in the first half or even the balance of the year. Excuse me. I don't think we've really seen much change. I think when we made some of the actions in December, what was clear to us was that the buying personas for Voice, IVR and Flex were pretty similar. We wanted to make sure that we were simplifying the experience for our customers while also being able to extract some efficiencies in the business. So we consolidated some of those capabilities, and now our account executives in Communications can sell Flex and/or kind of the composable offerings of contact center capabilities to every one of our customers, aligned in a way in which our customers actually want to buy. And so no real negative impacts as a result. I think that we see possibilities and opportunities in the future based upon that realignment.

Thanks.

Yes. So I think there's a few opportunities there, and I wouldn't actually just limit it to Flex necessarily. I think that what we see sort of more broadly is that in Flex -- maybe I'll start there. With Flex itself, we do have a partner ecosystem. They've been building alongside us. They've developed a number of innovative capabilities that sort of augment what we do inside of Flex and provide the overall kind of enhanced experience to a customer. And we're very excited about continuing the progress there.

I think based on some of the changes that we've made inside the business, and sort of to echo the answer to the prior question as well, we do have an opportunity to both decompose or make composable the aspects of Flex to be able to suit whatever the customer buying need is in a way that I think is a little bit different than just selling kind of a fully instantiated contact center solution.

I think the other part of it is for the overall business, we do see a really significant opportunity with our ISVs. We alluded to a large deal, for example, that we signed with a partner. We do see partners becoming an increasingly more important part of the business. And our ability to both help them grow with their own customers as well as partner with them to be able to bring solutions to market, I do think presents a really interesting opportunity for the business and will certainly be an area of focus for us.

Thanks.