Kyle Larkin
Granite Construction Incorporated (GVA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Yes, good morning. And so I think we'll start with the volume side of things. Certainly, as we look into 2024 from an aggregate side, I think the volume is going to be pretty consistent with what we saw in 2023, which was a healthy market for us. We do see pricing on the aggregates up around 10% going into 2024. That's our expectations for the year. On the asphalt side, that's where we see a volume increase in 2024 versus 2023. And I would say most of that is going to be seen in California, and we expect price increases to be somewhere close to around 5% in 2024.

I would think about a broad-based. I think all of our markets are healthy. Certainly, the IIJA funds are helping contribute to that. And we spoke about that in the prepared marks. So we got a healthy market both on the public side and the private side that we're excited about. I mean, one of the highlights certainly was what we saw in California. And we know there's been a lot of discussions around what's going on in California overall with its budget. Yet the transportation and highway infrastructure spending in California is really strong. And I think our CAP really reflects that today. And so we're really excited about what we see out in the West.

Thank you.

Yes. So in '24, actually, being this year, January was very dry out in the West. So we're very fortunate to have good weather. Our team has been busy. So we're already off to a really strong start in Q1 of this year. Last year, obviously, we had a really tough quarter weather-wise. We did get some emergency work last year, but it wasn't enough to really offset the weather that we were impacted by. So this year, we are off to a better and stronger start. And '23 really kind of created a low bar. I would say year-over-year. So we have that going for us from a comparison perspective. But I think our materials business, where we're going to see the impact, probably the greatest. And Q1 of this year, with the emergency work last year, there wasn't a lot of materials opportunities for us. This year, having better weather, our materials teams are getting out of the gate faster than they did last year.

Yes. I mean, I think it's really changed for us, except that we've been able to take that business incorporated into our construction business and create some efficiencies as part of that business. Obviously, we do a lot of repair and installation work. We work for municipal staff, clients, and the market's strong in a little bit of a higher end of the range that we have for construction in '24 14% to 16%. So we feel really good about the opportunities there and an opportunity to continue to grow that business for us.

Good morning.

Yes, thanks, Mike. So I think maybe I'll address the question is really how do we bridge between our 2023 results on margins, performance, and how do we get to that 14% to 16% in '24? And I think there's a few things that they were looking at. I mean, one of you, if you adjust out in Tappan Zee and the I-64 project, we're sitting right around 13.3%. So we're not quite up to that 14% to 16% gross profit margin that we are expecting in 2024. And I think your comment around the pipeline and projects is important, because the pipeline of projects we have in company today are much better higher quality margins type projects than we had in 2023, and so you kind of think about that pipeline of work coming through.

In 2023, we're still burning through some of that work we picked up in 2021. In 2022, there was a little bit more tougher market I should say, than what we have historically seen and what we have in the last couple of years. So the pipeline has gotten stronger, margins gotten better. And I think those projects are going to really start to hit our books in 2024. So I think that's going to help. Our execution hasn't changed around what our focus is. And we have our construction playbook. We're focused on operational excellence. We continue to see opportunities to get better on year-over-year, and we're focused on that. And I can tell you the market's still healthy. We talked about that.

So our margins are getting better, if not pretty consistent with what we saw last year, which are really healthy margins in the market. You can tell you the first month or so, we're seeing the bid volume is very consistent with what we saw last year. And margins are very consistent as well. And our hit rate's been strong. So we feel like we have the market, we have the work on the books today to hit those margin expectations of 14% to 16% in 2024.

Well, I think when we looked at the acquisition with Lehman-Roberts and Memphis Stone & Gravel, I look at it like we're getting back to our roots as an organization. We hadn't done a vertically integrated deal since 2008. And it was really important for us to get back to doing the types of businesses and deals that we were comfortable with and how we grew our organization historically over time. And so if you kind of go back to 2023, we were very intentional about supporting and strengthening our existing home markets and reinvesting those. They were underinvested from a reserve perspective. We saw some bolt-on opportunities, ways that we could preserve the market position we had. And so we did that.

You know, Lehman-Roberts was an opportunity for us to get outside of our existing footprint and create that real platform for growth. And as I mentioned on our last call, we were looking for a really strong leadership, looking for a healthy growing market, and we're looking for a really good business. And we found that with Lehman-Roberts. And that's going to provide that platform for us to continue to grow in the Southeast and where we can grow that business and really leverage the team to find other opportunities in that marketplace to grow our company.

So this is a big shift for us and we're excited about it. We haven't done a vertical integrated deal since, again, it's been 15 years and so quite a while. So that was really kind of our thoughts behind the Lehman acquisition. And as we looked to 2024, you know, I think our investment thoughts are very similar. We're going to continue to reinvest in our existing businesses, support and strengthen. But we are looking for other opportunities like Lehman-Roberts, so we can grow our business. It could be part of the platform to Lehman-Roberts or find other, other areas that we can expand and transform our company. And I think you look at that positive cash flow that we generated on Q3 and Q4 and what we expect to '24, we're going to have the ability to do it.

Thank you.

Good morning.

The progress on the larger projects?

Yes. So I would say, we've been through this transformational journey as an organization for quite some time now. We really don't bid these -- the mega projects that we historically had been that it caused us a lot of challenges in organization. We do pursue projects that we would call larger projects that would be in the, say, $150 million to $250 million range. But the big shift for us has been the contract method in which we do that work. So most of our larger projects now that are more complex, or even longer in duration tend to be the best value type projects, or CMGC, or progressive design build. And if you look at the pie chart that has the breakdown of our CAP, around almost half of our CAP now is that best value type projects. And so, we've been able to deliver larger, more complex projects, and very successfully under that contracting method.

So it's really a very big difference to entirely different business models than what we were doing several years ago. And that's really why we're excited about our transformation. I think the other thing that's really important is these projects are also being built in markets that we know. These are home markets for us. We're not chasing work into markets with clients that we don't understand. We don't have a really strong relationship with. That allows us to be more successful, but it also does something really important. It allows us to avoid claims. And so that's certainly something we want to get away from as an organization is having these contract claims. They are distraction. They are a challenge and frankly, they're a drag on our cash. And so one of the things you're seeing with our new business model is if we don't have these claims on our books, we can actually drive a lot higher operating cash flow. So in short, we're doing we're doing very well on the larger projects that we're procuring today.

Not at all. Yes, what we really want to make sure that everybody understood is the Caltrans three-year expenditure allocations are only going up. We're excited about the opportunities we see in the state of California, certainly on the public side, if you look at the SB-1 monies that are out there, they continue to grow. And so we think California is going to be a healthy market for years to come. So yes, we don't have any concerns.

Thank you.

Yes, there isn't any claim recovery in that 7% target in 2024.

Perhaps. I mean, I think it's probably too early to tell for us in that regard. But I think we still feel good about the 10% and the 5%. So I guess we'll see.

Yes, I think that's kind of an average. I mean, every market can be a little bit different, but those are averages over the year.

Thank you.

Okay. Well, thank you for joining the call today. As always, we want to thank all of our employees for the work they do every day. Most importantly, in 2023, we had the best stage results in Granite's history for a second consecutive year. You keep raising the bar and you should be proud of this achievement. Thank you again for joining the call and you're interest in Granite. We look forward to speaking with you all soon.