Ladd Wilks
ProFrac Holding Corp (ACDC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Not to put a specific date on it. We're not quite there yet, but we expect to be there in the first half.

That's correct.

I'll defer to Matt Zinn on this one.

So on services, I don't want to guide too aggressively, but we expect to generate a tremendous amount of free cash, pay down debt. And it's not unreasonable for us to be able to cut our debt in half this year.

Yes, we've got about 1/3 of our business exposed to gas markets. And -- we don't have a crystal ball. We don't know when the gas market is going to come back. We don't know how deep or why this gap is going to be, but we're committed to be patient and -- or big believers and the demand drivers that are coming later this decade.

So we're staying committed to our customer base there, staying committed to these basins and welcome a huge increase to duck inventory. And hope for improving commodity.

Yes. We continue to see improved demand on our Permian assets, specifically and increasing utilization there. And it's a combination of third-party and internal -- the focus right now is making sure that all of our customers are provided great service and great products, and we're continuing to focus on those areas. And South Texas and the Permian or the greatest utilization drivers for increase.

Yes. Fuel efficiency continuing to be a major theme in the -- in this industry, and it's become a really strong demand driver for us. We're not at full utilization on our e-fleet, but expect to be this year again, this goes into how much operators spend on diesel and being able to eliminate as much of that cost as possible and grow margins alongside it so that everybody wins.

On the e-fleet front, we expect to be fully utilized this year, working with operators they're very interested in a turnkey solution that's everything from gas, power gen, along with your e-fleet. And so -- we've begun to fund a high degree of success in bundling that as a turnkey solution and expect that to get us to full utilization this year.

Yes, our historical utilization of our mines has been around that 50%. And we -- as we've become more focused on third-party agreements, that's where the ramp comes from.

Correct.