Larry Silber
Herc Holdings Inc. (HRI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Once you take 70 cell utilization as far as on a utilization of the proceeds from the business when it's completed, will initially go to pay down our ABL and reduce our exposure there. And then we'll it will sort of roll into our normal use of capital.

Thank you.

Yes, great question. I'd say by and large, vast majority of the supply chain is back to normal or near normal kind of operating metrics somewhat similar to 2019 in the access area, meaning aerial work platforms in particular and reach forklifts. Some of the major vendors that we deal with are still have extended lead times on it come in a bit and are certainly more reliable on when they give us delivery dates. But we're still not going to be able to get everything. We'd certainly like to get them for this season. So we're out somewhat helpful in our discussions with them that are there what I'll call close plants, meaning our plants are put in place and in Latin America or Mexico in particular, will improve income come back stronger. We'll have a better supply resource from them, and we're looking forward to that improving, but we'll operate with some constraints in that area for all of 2024.

Yes. And I would add to that, Neil, with the OEMs becoming more normalized themselves and having shorter lead times. If there are spikes in demand, we can always get gear on a shorter story overall or shorter basis. From a lead time perspective, sometimes we can get it within a matter of days or weeks as opposed to months or years in the past. So our ability with a normalized OEM supply chain really helps any sort of moderations in the end-user market.

Thanks, Neil.

Well, look, we are trying to remain diversified and grow all of our verticals at a similar pace so that we're not dependent on any one segment of our business relative to if there's ever a downturn or ever some type of an event that causes one to go down, we're going to be well balanced across the board in all of our verticals. So I don't think that implies anything other than a very balanced growth business that is able to be very nimble and adjust to marketplace dynamics and changes and take advantage of opportunities on hot markets it.