Laurent Therivel
Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. (TDS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Rick. So, I mean, the kind of two questions there. I mean, the first, from a slowdown perspective, this is industry wide, not surprising as we've heard both, all the other wireless carriers report pullback in CapEx, they're primarily complete with their mid-band rollout. And so everybody's pulling back a bit from a spend perspective. And that affects new tenancies, it affects amendments. And you've also seen that on all the other tower companies' earnings results.

And so we're not immune to that. Long-term term, we do remain really bullish on our towers. We have, I believe, strong MLAs in place with all the wireless carriers. My sense is that -- without knowing their strategy, my sense is dish is taking a breather after hitting their last build out obligation, but they've got more to come.

If I fast forward what's going to drive further capacity expansion in the wireless industry, there's no new spectrum on the horizon. We can talk about this on a different topic. I mean, the SEC doesn't even have spectrum authority right now, and so there's no new spectrum on the horizon. So the way to add capacity is going to be more AOs and work hours. And that means more long-term growth for the tower segment.

And so we remain optimistic about it, even though we did see a bit of a slowdown in '23, and we expect that slowdown to increase in '24. As far as your question about separate segment reporting, we continue to evaluate it. Frankly, and to be transparent on this, this is one of those things that once you do it, you can't dial it back.

And so we're trying to be deliberate and disciplined about what information we provide and when and how we provide it. We have heard you and others in terms of a desire to have more information on our towers, and we provided that. And so we continue to provide more detail on that tower business. Separate segment reporting is not something that we're ready to pull the trigger on just yet, but that may be something we do in the future.

Thanks, Rick.

Good morning, Simon. Yes, we do. So we're under index in ACP. We have about 20,000 ACP customers. And so we just don't have a lot there. Our marketing teams are working on giving those customers a soft landing to the extent that ACP does go away, which is the current expectation. And so the short answer is minimal exposure.

I think dollars, Simon, will probably start to flow late this year. I think the majority of dollars will probably start coming in in 2025. I also expect to have a bit of a -- call it a sequenced, or you could call it a take two on funding plans. My expectation is that states will first come out with quite aggressive plans in terms of expectations of fiber build out, expectations of low cost pricing plans, expectations of a whole bunch of other, let's call it overhead associated with those plans. It'll be interesting to see how much uptake they get, right? Is this -- is round one of BEAD going to be a tremendous success or is round one of BEAD going to be all over again?

I think that's a question that still needs to be answered. Based on our conversations, I still feel quite optimistic about the long-term role of fixed wireless that we can play, particularly for our more rural states. It's unclear to me if that will be kind of part of the first round with some of the states that we're talking about or if it's going to be later. But I wouldn't expect meaningful dollars to flow until next year.

So, let me tackle it from a fixed wireless perspective, Mike. So first -- the first place I would point to is where there are going to be BEAD opportunities that can be served within the radius of our current tower build. Where we can do that, it's a pretty simple equation. We utilize existing mobile capacity. We -- we'd leverage that capacity towards serving a fixed wireless need. And if we can do that with the support of BEAD dollars, all the better. And so for those homes and businesses, we think we have a really compelling return on capital equation that comes along with that. What percentage of those are going to be, I have no clue.

Right, we kind of have to wait and see what the -- what the states come out with. There's a second set of homes, obviously, that are not currently reached by either fiber or by a sufficiently strong enough mobile signal that we can deliver a compelling fixed wireless product. And for that, you need to put a new tower in. The reason that we've advocated for BEAD is -- and the reason, I'll go back to our sequencing point that I made earlier, I expect that BEAD will create a significantly denser fiber grid, completely irrespective of fixed wireless. So that will bring our overall cost down to serve.

And if I can -- I've mentioned this number before, but our cost to put a tower in rural America is between $650,000 to $1 million. If with BEAD dollars, I can bring that down to $100,000 or $200,000, then that could create a pretty compelling investment opportunity. I'll point you, though, from an overall high level guidance, I'll point you to the priority that I finished our conversation with about 2024, which is we're laser focused on return on capital. And so if there are BEAD opportunities in '24 or in '25 that help us expand return on capital, meaning we can have really efficient use of our internal capital spend, and we can drive attractive returns on it, we'll participate. If it's not a good use of capital, we won't.

And I've also made that really clear to both the states and to NTIA. These programs have to be structured in a way that it's a positive return on capital equation, not just for UScellular but for anyone that's going to participate. And so if we were to expand our capital spend in the future because of BEAD, it would be because we see returns that are over and above the current ones that we would expect as part of our long-term plan.

Yeah. The -- I mean, it's a -- the thing that has driven the slowdown in gross ads, it's a pretty simple equation, and it's been the expansion and the rise of the cable wireless players. If I rewind three years, they had a share of essentially zero in our marketplace or in the markets where we operate, across our footprint. Even though we see cable competing by now in about two-thirds of our footprint, they're still not everywhere. And their market share is still only in the 3% to 4%. But their share of gross ads is about 15%.

And so how are they able to do this? Well, it's really twofold. The first is they offload almost 90% depending on which statistics you look at. Let's call it 90% of their traffic is offloaded to Wi-Fi. But for us, that number is about 80%. 80% of the usage of our devices is done on Wi-Fi versus 20% is on cellular. And that doesn't sound like a big difference until you think about it from a usage on cellular perspective. And then you say, okay, well, 10% of a cable device users is on cellular, and they have to turn around and pay for that from a wholesale rate perspective. Whereas 20% of our usage is on cellular, so it's double the usage on the cellular network. And so their overall network economics are quite attractive.

And then you couple that with their ability to essentially cross subsidize their plans with profits from their wireline business. Different people can agree whether or not it's -- whether wireless is a profitable business for the cable wireless players or not, but these are smart people, and they're driven by economics. And so they wouldn't be in the business if they didn't find a way to make money. And I think they're either making money on wireless even with the price competition they're putting in place or at the very least they're breaking even and they're seeing the benefit on churn.

And so the combination of better offload economics coupled with being able to cross subsidize with their wireless plans, it makes a difference. And we've got spectrum in our markets that offer in a $29 plan for a month with one line free. So you're talking $15 a month unlimited on the Verizon network. That's significant price pressure that's been put in place over time, and that's affected us. It's affected everybody in the industry. I mean, that is the major driver of change that has occurred.

And so how do you deal with that? Well, I mean, the first is, and we talked about this earlier in the call, we're really investing in retaining our customers, invest in trying to provide a great customer experience. We're invested significantly in our digital platform that's there to ensure that customers have a smooth and seamless experience. We've put aggressive promotions in place. We went through the holidays with existing, same as new pricing, and you can expect us to pulse that in and out throughout the year. And so step one will be to really continue to invest in customer retention.

And the second step, and this is a big one for us is to continue to enhance our network experience. We talked about rolling out mid band. Everywhere where we modernized for 5G, we see better customer results and higher customer perception of our network. Everywhere where we roll out mid band, we see the same thing. And so we've pivoted our capital spending. By and large, we haven't completed it, but we've slowed the rest of our 5G modernization. By now, you've already got 80% of our traffic being carried on 5G modernized sites. So we've pivoted the capital spend towards mid band.

And that mid-band investment will create a better customer experience. And we think it will compete well in the marketplace, and the combination of a good network experience with an attractive price point, always been network and price that operates in our industry. We expect that to continue. But that's the fundamental change, Mike, in the industry has been -- over the last couple of years, has been the rise of cable wireless. I don't see that changing in the near term. I continue to think that we offer a really attractive alternative of a great network and attractive price. We're going to keep doing that. We're going to keep competing. But that's what's -- that's what driven the challenges in gross ads, and that's what we're doing to address it in the future.

So we see them in -- you mean the 60% some-odd that I quoted in terms of the percentage of our markets where we compete against them. And you're asking what the comp -- what the -- what that number would be for AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile?

Yeah. It's substantially all. It's greater than 90% for all the big three.

Absolutely. Have a good day.

Yeah. Thanks, Sergey. So let me start with the overall market opportunity. I've referenced this number in the past. It hasn't changed. We see the overall opportunity for this business at around 400,000 subscribers. That's a combination of two factors. And it's a combination of the market dynamics where we believe this product is competitive versus the network dynamics of -- I mean, this is a product that rides on top of the investments that have been made in mobility.

I've been transparent about this in the past. This is not a product that pays for itself, right? It doesn't pay for all the capital requirements that are needed to put new radios and new towers in place. And so you put capacity in place for the mobile subscriber, and then you pivot that capacity where you have it available and you serve the needs of fixed wireless. When you put those two things together, we see a market opportunity of about 400,000.

Usually you would see growth rates starting to slow as you reach the kind of customer scale that we've reached. So when you first roll out a product, the first 5,000, the first 10,000 customers, you see fantastic growth. Right? But then as you start hitting scale, the numbers become more challenging.

The real impact of mid band for us is all of a sudden, we can offer a drastically faster product that competes not just in rural areas, not just in un- and underserved, and not just where the competitor is DSL or satellite or nothing. We can offer 300-meg on a mid-band-enabled product. And so that competes extremely well against cable. And so we expect that mid band product to be the key driver of growth going into 2024 and in 2025, and it opens up new geographies for us.

As I mentioned, we should have 30% of our towers carrying almost 50% of our traffic fired up with mid band by the end of the year. We'll be doing that on a steady cadence. And every time we upgrade a product -- we upgrade a tower with mid band, that shows up in -- for our stores as an opportunity to sell an enhanced broadband product to our fixed wireless customers.

And so the net impact of it all is that we expect that attractive growth that we've seen in fixed wireless to continue, notwithstanding the fact that that business continues to scale to larger and larger numbers. So hopefully that gives you a sense about how we're thinking about it and of the impact of fixed wire -- excuse me, of mid band.

Sergey, I'll just chime in. Thank you for directing the cost question to the CFO, but the CEO occasionally has something to do with it, too. So I won't dump it all on Doug. One thing that we've seen a lot of -- we've seen a lot of success is in our efforts around automation, in our efforts around transparency and flexibility for our customers. And so the example I'll give there is the upgraded bill that we provided to our customers. So we've both -- we've rolled out a new bill format.

The first change that we made was almost a year ago, where we changed our approach to prorations. The second thing that we've done is we've recently launched an entirely new format for our customers, providing them a lot of transparency, what they can expect, how the bill breaks down, what they can expect the following months. It's all automated. That has significantly driven down cost of care. It's significantly reduced what I would call service-driven visits to our stores. We still love to see our customers in our stores, so those don't bother me.

But it helps if a customer is walking in the store with an intent to buy rather than with a billing question. And so simple moves like that, moves that are focused on transparency, moves that are focused on flexibility, they're upfront investments that we make, but they also bring down costs. But they bring down costs without any kind of a negative experience on the customer. In fact, it's a positive experience on the customer. And you can probably expect to see more of those automation in digital investments from us in this year and beyond as well.