Lawson Whiting
Brown-Forman Corporation (BF.B) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Vivien.

I will try that one, Bonnie. So, the pricing strategy, which we started a couple of years ago, which we have been pretty transparent about, was in the low-single digits, sort of in that 2% to 3% range kind of globally everywhere, so U.S. and international, I have been trying to get it across all our brands. So, we have been pretty successful at that over the last couple of years, and we are going to continue that. So, our strategy has been a little bit different than either some other consumer products sectors or even within our own industry, would that have been more aggressive. And there are pluses and minuses to doing that, but we feel comfortable that the best long-term plan is to keep that sort of in that same low-single digit range, but trying to do it every single year without shocking consumers or chasing them away in any way. And so that balance of volume and pricing is what we are looking to achieve. Now, as far as like more recent times, have we seen like discounting go up or anything like that, we really have not. I mean I think the pricing environment in U.S. spirits, but also in Europe is it about as good of a place as it’s been in a while. We find the industry is starting to take regular price increases again after, as we have said for almost a decade of not doing it, but that seems to be back again. And so hopefully, it stays that way, and we will continue to keep our heads down and go for that 2% to 3% a year.

And then on the tequila question, I mean you asked, have we seen any more discounting or anything like that, no. I am actually kind of surprised to hear that a little bit, although I do know some of the big brands have slowed down a little bit, but some of that, I am just convinced is more about comping against a couple of years, there were some of these brands were growing at 100% growth rate. And so they have just they have kind of hit that wall a little bit. And as Leanne said, there is a little bit different. I mean we are expecting better growth looking ahead as the glass constraints let up. That was the last brand, really the last brand in our portfolio that struggled. And we came out of the box in fiscal ‘23 last summer with very high expectations and then we couldn’t deliver and that was frustrating. But now we have sort of got that all fixed and want to see substantially better growth rates looking ahead. So and as far as discounting go in the category, I mean given the costs still remain very elevated, although I want to say we are sort of peaking out, I have said that before and been wrong. So, it’s – but it does look – I think the outlook is a little bit better than we have to hit the top and should expect a better cost position going forward, but I have no intention of increasing discounting at this stage, at least not on our brands.

Yes. We don’t have a lot of that data yet. So, we will talk about where we are today because basically the rest of the world is still open. So, we are in nine markets Mexico, the U.S., Japan, Philippines, the UK, Poland, Hungary and the Netherlands and Ireland. So, not sure what percentage of the world that would be, but it’s not particularly high. So, we got a ways to go, and it will continue throughout this fiscal year and even into the following year after that, too. So, I mean the short answer on how is it doing and how are we doing, I mean it’s – we feel pretty good about it. The turn rates have been kind of on plan to maybe slightly better than planned so far, and that would be the U.S. and in the other markets that I just talked about, so excited about that. And look, the Coca-Cola Company and Brown-Forman are working very well together on this rollout. They have got some pretty cool programming out there in the world. We talked a little bit about Piccadilly Circus and some other sort of iconic landmark types of things. And so we are coming out big. And this is a good thing for the Jack Daniel’s brand. Even if it is modest profit – incremental profits in the early years, there is a lot of visibility we are getting from that. It’s a lot of advertising dollars that are going behind this launch that are not reflected on Brown-Forman’s P&L, but it’s still happening in the world. And so that is something I don’t want people to forget about that it’s a tremendous amount of consumer interactions that we are getting with this brand. So, it’s all off to a good start. It will probably be another quarter or so before we really have a lot of that sort of turn data that I think we are all looking to see.

Yes. Let me add on the U.S. part of your question. I mean as I look at Nielsen figures right now, just using that as an example, it’s back in the 4% to 5% range for TDS, which is kind of where it was for about a decade before the pandemic actually happened and feels about where I think the market is going to settle out. We are a little bit ahead of that. That’s a good marker for us to shoot for every year to be a little ahead of TDS and said the U.S. market is pretty good. It had an overall only a 3% growth in ‘23. Remember, the first half was 11%, which had some of that inventory rebuild built into it. The slowing down to 3% did recognize bringing some of those inventories back down, which has got us kind of where we are today, which is what we described earlier, is in line. So – but the other thing I would caution everyone be careful extrapolating us to some statement about consumer health around the world. Our story is more about shipment comparisons to last year than it really is about a change in consumer demand. So – but I think overall, look, it’s back to normal. We have said normalized about 10x already today. But normal is pretty good. In the U.S. market, if you can get – continually get mid-single digit sales growth, and we expect higher growth outside of the United States, that algorithm works pretty well for Brown-Forman.

Yes. I mean – well, the U.S. is the one people seem to go at the most. And obviously, when you – if you went back to the Nielsen thing again, if you look at the less than $10, that’s the spirit-based RTDs that are flying, but that bends the numbers if you try to look at the overall thing. So, you have got to look at the different price points. And I mean the important thing is that the super-premium and the ultra-premium price points continue to grow at a faster rate than, say, standard or just premium. So, that has been true for a long time. The gap has closed a little bit, but still premiumization is live and well in the U.S. business. And yes, so we feel like the portfolio is in a pretty good place. And it is a little bit tougher in Europe. TDS numbers are not quite as strong as they are in the U.S., France, I know is a challenging market. But we are growing share in Germany, the UK and Poland, three of the most important international markets that we have around the world. So, we feel pretty good that the takeaway of our brands, particularly in developed international is solid.

Yes. Just briefly and I know everyone knows by now, heard of the passing of Diageo’s CEO, Ivan Menezes. His influence can be felt really around our industry and in every market where beverage alcohol is sold. He was an admired leader and well respected across the industry. So, on behalf of all of us at Brown-Forman, we send our deepest condolences to his family and the entire Diageo community. That concludes our call.