Lee Shavel
Verisk Analytics, Inc. (VRSK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So, thanks. This is Lee. So first let me distinguish I think from a pricing standpoint first, as we indicated in our comments and as Elizabeth just described, the overall premium growth market has continued to be strong as insurers have been able to secure some rate approvals. We think there's more progress in that regard.

So I want to differentiate that pricing environment, which has been constructive. And from our perspective that is a partial benefit. It represents approximately 20% to 25% of our revenue base is tied to prior two-year premium growth. And so that provides some level of support. But I think the more meaningful element of our pricing is our ability to deliver value to our clients. We're doing that probably most significantly in the investment that we're making in our Core Lines Reimagine project, where early renewals from clients that have seen what we are doing, what we are creating, how we are improving, their experience, their efficiency has demonstrated that value. And we have been able to realize stronger pricing momentum than we had originally anticipated which we feel good about as we continue to deliver more functionality through that platform.

And I would say, further I think we through the go-to-market review that we have done, we have identified some areas to identify how we can capture more value that we are delivering to our clients from pricing structures that align to identifying and identifying that value that we're creating for our clients.

Sure. Thank you, Brendan. And I'm going to repeat the question because you came through a little choppy there. So I think the question was how do we feel about a new product pipeline areas of investment? And so I would say, we're really excited about a number of the new products and developments that we are -- that we have been working on. In particular, I think, certainly a lot of the focus has been around generative AI and its application. And we've been exploring its application across a variety of our businesses.

I'm going to isolate for a second on our claims business where we have deployed some generative AI, applications and are also looking at developing other applications. I'm going to ask my colleague Maroun Mourad to talk a little bit about what we're doing in that area as an example of what we have been looking to do more broadly.

And I'd add to that, Brendan. I want to give you a taste of what we're doing on that front. But as many of you know, we've been really thrilled about the success that we've had with our fast businesses application of low and no-code technology to the Life Insurance business. We believe and have begun to engage with clients on how that can be potentially applied to the P&C area. So I think that's a broad opportunity.

And then we also as a more insurance-focused entity have been able to try to integrate more of our data sets in our extreme events business and our specialty business solutions area, tying together some of the functions in the excess and specialty market and the reinsurance markets as well as tying together some of our claims data and our underwriting data. And so as we have now fully migrated to the cloud, our ability to facilitate those types of integrations are particularly attractive. So a lot of the great stuff that we have underway that should support future growth for the company.

Sure, Jeff. It's a complex question, and so I think we're trying to get our handle on it. I'm going to kind of isolate on as we see premium adequacy improve and the procyclicality dimension of the business. I should probably start by saying, or by saying, as I think many of our investors and analysts understand we don't have a high degree of economic sensitivity.

And so, there is muted sensitivity to cyclical effects. We tend to be more influenced as you've observed by weather events or activities in the ILS market and so those tend to have a more pronounced element to it. I do think that, there is some procyclicality elements that as the business -- as the insurance industry is doing well and we've seen premium growth that, that does encourage more investment in technology and renovation that accelerates our ability to deploy some of the technologies that we have invested in. And that is a positive tailwind in that scenario.

However, I want to isolate that to insurance cyclicality. So that as their profitability grows and that may be separate and unconnected to just broader economic cyclicality, which is relatively muted. So hopefully that, I think, addresses kind of the core of your question, Jeff.

Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. I'm going to answer your question in a way that I think gives you some insight in terms of where we see value creation opportunity. I think first off, all of our businesses are clearly generating strong organic growth delivering value to the industry. They're at different scale levels. And so I'll reiterate that, for instance, in our forms rules and loss cost area where we focused our core lines reimagine area that's a broad area where we are creating value. And I'm going to ask Saurabh Khemka who leads that effort in that business to talk a bit about how we're creating value there. It's probably our most scaled opportunity where we can find incremental value and capture that value.

Underneath the businesses as a whole and this will hearken back to Investor Day, we see opportunities to build network value. We've talked about it within the themes ecosystem where we're adding partners, which creates value for all of our market participants but particularly our insurance clients. And I'll also note that with our specialty business solutions, while 3% of our total 2023 revenue contribution represents connectivity and a network impact particularly with the Marsh announcement that allows us to build value in that network expansion. And I think that holds true in a variety of areas, property estimating solutions in forms rules and loss costs.

But let me give Saurabh an opportunity to talk a little bit about where we are adding value to our clients in a variety of ways with the core lines reimagine project.

And I'll cap it off by saying another dimension of incremental growth is the ability to move some of our traditional products into more of a SaaS type of environment. And there in our extreme events business, the migration to more of a SaaS model, we believe opens up opportunity to deliver more value to that segment of our clients as well. But thanks for the question.

Yes. Thank you, Surinder. So there are a number of elements and I really have to complement the organization for its receptivity, to outside perspectives, on what we could be doing better. We looked at it across all of our businesses. And certainly, compensation structure was an area of focus. And there, I think we -- there were two things. One, we looked at where market levels were both from a level and from a composition standpoint, so that our sales team felt as though they were being fairly treated, create a good opportunity and aligning our interest with the customer. And we believe that that will improve our retention and make certain that they are focused on the opportunities that generate the most value for us.

We also spent time looking at pricing, relative to value and where we feel as though we're delivering demonstrable value to our clients, and how we can be more responsive to structuring our pricing in a way that aligns, with our clients' perception of value and what their needs are. So, I would just identify those as two of the primary functions.

I would add, somewhat outside of this, we have also been working to make certain that our sales effort is well tied into our senior-level strategic dialogue, so that as we have driven a stronger level of dialogue, we are communicating effectively internally to capitalize on opportunities for sales on existing products that our clients may not be aware of, or we find higher support because of the value proposition at a senior level within the organization. And so, that's an area where we expect that we'll be able to do a better job as well.

Yes. And Russell the one thing I would add is I think that if you start with free cash flow given accounting differences over time should even out. And so it should approximate our overall EBITDA growth rate assuming that the CapEx is growing commensurate with that. I do think in 2024, we're seeing slightly higher CapEx growth, because of what we see as a number of opportunities within the business. Part of that relates to the generative AI opportunity. And so we may have periods of higher level of CapEx investment that may bring the overall free cash flow growth down. But over the long-term we see that very -- should be very commensurate with our overall adjusted EBITDA growth.

Yes. Seth, thanks for the question. It's difficult to kind of isolate it, because it occurs across our business. I would say that certainly that those pricing improvements that I've referred to in terms of new contract renewals are factored into our 2024 guidance from an overall revenue growth perspective.

So, in that regard, we're beginning to see some of that influence that our near-term expectations. But I do believe that it is a source of growth for us longer-term. And it's not a really very different than what we described as our general operating model, which is that we believe that we can create much broader value for the industry, by investing in this data and technology and capturing that particularly as we add value to our existing clients is largely value-driven pricing. And so that supports the -- that longer-term 6% to 8% growth target that we are working to achieve on a predictable and consistent basis.

And Greg, one thing that I would add and I want to thank all of our investors who participated in the year-end investor survey that was conducted. We thought it was important to get feedback after the first three quarters and following Investor Day. And specific to your point and Elizabeth's comments Greg, one very clear priority from the investors that we surveyed was a preference for internal investment kind of recognizing our ability to leverage that and generate very high returns. And so, we appreciate that input. We share the view that that's very additive to our business and will clearly be a priority for us.