Lloyd Yates
NiSource Inc. (NI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Nick.

Good morning, Shar.

Yes, just to reinforce that. Shar, it’s a great question, when we see signs from the business that will lead us to a different outcome. We’ve built a track record to flow those updates through this call. We’ve done so at various points. So we won’t wait to give you greater insight once we have a higher degree of confidence of exactly where we’re going to land within the range if we need to send that signal. But right now, 6% to 8% off of a strong 2023 year end is the plan.

So, Melody, you want to talk about NIPSCO Gas case? Are you talking about – I’m sorry, Shar, NIPSCO – are you talking about the NIPSCO, current NIPSCO gas case or future electric?

The way to think about the next electric case, Shar, is what we like to do is file that case, pretty much align with when we finish those renewable projects. And if you think about the last case, those renewable projects went in right before that case was executed. So I think we try to keep that gap really small. So that was to be dependent upon finishing those renewable projects. And right now they’re on time and on schedule. We have more information about that. We’ll file the electric case and we’ll let you guys know that as soon as possible.

So let me talk about it this way. I don’t necessarily comment on any kind of specific M&A, but what I will say is, when you think about NiSource, we are always very diligently reviewing options to enhance shareholder value in our plan. But we’re currently focused on our organic plan, investing $16 billion at one times rate base with another potential upside to invest another $2 billion.

If you go back to 2022, we did a lot of work here in terms of our business review and we see a couple of things that we like, and that is the scale at NiSource has tremendous value and we like the diversification of our six operating companies. You also saw us last year raise capital via – but you all raise capital via the NIPSCO transaction, what we thought was a very efficient process with respect – very efficient tax process with respect to taxes.

So with all that being said, what I’ll say to you is, we are always looking to enhance shareholder value. And if we find an opportunity to raise capital more efficiently to improve our enterprise value, we plan to take advantage of it. But right now, we’re focused on our organic plan.

Melody, you want to handle that one?

So before I close, I want to take a minute here to thank Donald Brown. Donald is our EVP and Chief Innovation Officer, our former CFO. And after nearly a decade with NiSource, Donald informed us that he’ll be leaving the company to pursue other professional opportunities. I would say we’re extremely grateful to Donald for his service to NiSource and for helping us build a strong financial foundation and to help us evolve and execute our transformation strategy. And we wish him well in his future endeavors. I want to thank all of you for great questions and your support of NiSource and look forward to continue to update you on future business activities. Thank you very much.