Louis Pinkham
Regal Rexnord Corporation (RRX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mike.

Yes, Mike. Great questions. Thank you. So first, what has changed. I’d say, in fourth quarter, our teams performed extremely well. IPS in particular, executed very nicely. The margin lift is exactly what we expected, really solid performance, AMC as well. A bit more headwinds, though, for PES. And really it was the residential HVAC, but the destock furnace that is extending beyond what we anticipated. And we believe that, that will continue into ‘24 with resi HVAC, which is about 30% of that segment being down high double digits, so 15% to 20% in first quarter and then improving through the year, but down overall for the year. So that would be the main surprise for us.

And then as we think about the planning for ‘24, we expect our first half and second half sales levels to be weighted about 49%, 51% first half, second half, about a 2.5 point spread. Now the driver of that is we expect destocking to end in the first half, both in residential HVAC and in factory automation. And so then a slide up split in the second half. We’re not banking on a significant uplift in the second half, but that could be a catalyst for us if that changes. But right now, it’s, like I said, 49/51-ish, of course, that would mean for us, first half sales growth would be down year-over-year and second half growth would be up year-over-year. Hopefully, that helps.

Yes. So you kind of hit on the nail in the head of that with the way you described. Sequentially, we saw orders improve in that factory automation business. A lot of the longer cycle, though, orders are strong, so it gives us confidence in the second half, although the shorter cycle did improve quarter-over-quarter, but not yet to a year-over-year improvement. And so we see destocking continuing into the first half and then slightly rebounding in the second half, and that’s really, again, the longer cycle orders and the destocking strengthening H2 for us.

Thanks, Mike.

Good morning.

Yes. So Nigel, it’s a great question. And I’d tell you the markets are still murky here. When you think about how we entered Q4, we were expecting even more strength than we saw and furnace destock extended beyond Q4, and now we’re saying first half. Until we see some good trends that would support volume growth in ‘24, we’re not going to model that. We’re going to take a prudent approach and plan for what we’re seeing in the market today. Even what we’re seeing in the today though, given what we’re – the first quarter forecast for us, we’re going to need an uplift in the second half of about 6 points. So could it be more? Maybe. So that would be upside for us. And when we see that trend, we’ll certainly guide to it. But for now, we’re not confident enough, and so we’re not guiding beyond what I’ve already stated.

And then specific to your question – sorry, sorry, Nigel. Specific to your question on the GWP implementation, really, we’re not factoring in any impact to that transition at this time. We’re not seeing any upside or benefit from it yet. And as you probably know, the final rule would require that you can’t install anything manufactured after January 1, 2025 – after January 1, 2025. That’s going to put a lot of pressure on the supply chain. And so our guess is that the final rule will be modified so that you can install through January 1, 2026, what’s manufactured through January 1, 2025. So right now, we’re not expecting any major implications from the GWP implementation.

Thanks, Nigel.

Good morning.

Yes. So Jeff, thanks for the question. The comment that was made in the fall was exiting ‘25. But nevertheless, we feel very confident in our ability to get to that 25% EBITDA margin. So the way to just do dramatically is 22% in ‘24. Industrial will actually help about 100 basis points of uplift. And so call it, 23% in ‘24. We will expect another $65 million of synergies in ‘25 and then assume some growth because we would expect ‘25 to start to rebound as our markets start to return, and then we’ll continue to do what we do. We’ll drive 80/20. We will drive lean. I feel really good about our new product development and the mix positive gross margins. As a reminder, we expect to double our mortality coming out of ‘25 and showed all of those things plus a normalization of markets, in particular, short-cycle industrial, resi HVAC, all of that gives us confidence in our ability to execute to a 25% EBITDA margin.

Yes. So, Julian, there is some mix headwinds that dissipate, but a big driver is the synergies and the benefits from the synergies on the gross margin. That’s where we are seeing 75%, 80% of all of our synergies in the IPS segment. Teams are executing incredibly well on the footprint rationalization and the product line simplification. And that’s really the majority of the driver of the margin uplift in IPS in ‘24.

Hey. Good Joe. Good to have you here.

Yes. I mean I think the drivers of our business by market that could see some implication quarter-to-quarter, Chris, would be general industrial with – right now, we are seeing some sluggish in machinery, some destock. If that improves faster, that would see a bit of an uplift from Q1, Q2. Really, the same commentary around resi HVAC, that could show a nice uplift from Q1, Q2. Of course, we have got some really strong markets right now that we think are going to continue great momentum. Medical, data center, aerospace are really strong. I would tell you, alternative energy, the incentives get fully figured out and the projects released, perhaps that could show a nice uplift Q1, Q2. That’s how I would think about it between those two quarters.

Hey Chris. I think it’s a great question. Thank you. It’s all about living by Regal Rexnord’s values. We have a set of values and 35,000 associates worldwide that know them and live by them and that’s how we represent every day. We also over-communicate. We did an employee survey in the second half of 2023, and there is opportunities for us to improve, and there is opportunities that we are going to further leverage. And it’s over-communicating what our goals and objectives are and what it’s going to take to achieve them and working with our teams to when there are challenges and headwinds to put forward mitigating plans. And so we are a very planned do check at culture. And we do that with our culture as well. And so we have a plan to improve, and we will work with our organization worldwide to ensure that we are executing on that plan and partnering with everyone for great success.

Yes. Thank you.

Hey. Good morning Walt. You will have to un-mute.

Walter, the process is proceeding nicely and as we expected. And we guided the first half previously. And so we are on that path. We have most of our approvals at this point, but there are still a couple of few outstanding. And so as those approvals come in, then we will be able to close. So, again, right on our expectations of the first half close.

Yes. It’s really visibility at this point, Walt. I would say, one month does not make a trend. And if you recall, we were – we started October a little strong. And then in the end, we ended fourth quarter down mid-single digits. So, we believe it’s a prudent approach to plan for orders down. And if they do turn, of course that will be a benefit for Regal. But right now, that’s not what we are modeling.

Sure. Thank you.

Great. Thank you, operator and thanks to our investors and analysts for joining us today. As we embark on 2024, our team remains excited about the value creation opportunities in front of us. Even as certain of our end markets remain choppy, we will be focused on three key things. One, achieving our targeted $90 million of synergies. Two, delivering at least $700 million of free cash flow, which we expect to use in combination with the industrial motors and generators sale proceeds to reduce our debt and meaningfully shift the mix of our capital structure towards equity. And three, continuing to mature our many growth initiatives, driving 80/20, better leveraging our scale and scope, especially in IPS, and executing on our multiyear pipeline of differentiated new product launches. In short, tremendous opportunities for our associates, our customers and shareholders. Thank you again for joining us today and thank you for your interest in Regal Rexnord.