Luca Savi
ITT Inc. (ITT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Damian.

Sure. So, when we look at the rail market, I think we are expecting the rail market to be stronger for ITT next year. We had a very good backlog and good awards, and these across all the geography, China, Europe and North America. So, that is positive -- is going to be positive for us in 2024, the rail.

Then when you look at when you specifically talk about China, I think that we are expecting the market to be flat in 2024, but we will continue to outperform the market in China next year as well. Just to give you an idea, Damian, the team performed incredibly well in 2023, outperformance of more than 1,000 basis points in China. In Q4, despite the fact that we had more than 80 PV, process validations, the team was able to deliver more than 99.9 on-time delivery. And just in Q1 this year, they have more than 30 start of productions. So, China will continue to be good for ITT.

Sure. Yes. Sorry, I forgot about that. Sorry, Damian. When it comes to the China aftermarket, as you can see, the independent aftermarket grew in Q4, was an easy compare. We will see some -- as the destocking has stopped, we got that confirmation with the customer, and we will start seeing some growth in Q1 and then we will see for the rest of the year.

Thanks, Damian.

Hi, Nathan.

So, what we've seen is a lot of destocking has happened in 2023. But when we talk to our customer, we start seeing some destocking lingering a little bit in 2024, and this is -- probably will be true in Q1, and maybe a little bit in Q2 as well. And we are talking about really the connectors side of the business.

Hi, Jeff.

Hi, Jeff. Listen, it's fair, right? We all read the same newspaper, but the electrification trend is really here to stay. It might slow down little bit, but it's not going to go away. Now, what I would like to draw your attention to is the data. When you look at -- we always talk about electrified platforms. When you look at the electric vehicles and hybrid, the production of those platforms in 2023 is equivalent to more than 28 million vehicles. Now, this is twice almost the production that you have in North America. So, it's a sizable market. It might grow a little bit less, but it's still huge. So, we pay attention to it, of course, and you see how much we are growing in that -- in those electrified platforms, more than 150 platforms won in 2023. Having said that, you said it quite well, we are agnostic. We go to ICE as well. And despite the fact that the market is declining, in '23, we grew 7%, outperforming on the ICE, too.

Sure. When we look at the CCT and you look at the two businesses, of course, we are facing some destocking on the connectors side that Emmanuel was talking about. But then when you look at the OEM awards in connectors, that being growing in Q2, in Q3, in Q4 of [2013] (ph) and we expect them to keep on growing also in 2024. And this is where we are creating the pool, that when it comes to connectors and a lot of that comes from aero and defense.

On the components side of CCT, what we have is aero and defense has been a good tailwind. Now, aero has still not recovered, when we talk about OE, to the level of the pre-pandemic level, we are still probably 20% down when it comes to orders, but the aftermarket is higher than the pre-pandemic. So, that is really the dynamic that we see on the CCT front.

Yeah. So, when we look at the margins, today, when you look at CCT margin in 2023 at 18.1%, the margin is a record profitability already for CCT. Now, we still have area for improvement that we're going to work on. And so, those are coming from constraining the supply chain that are still there persisting, slowly improving, and a little bit on our operations where we have to work and invest.

Thanks, Jeff.

Good morning, Scott.

Hi, Scott. Thanks. What you see in 2024 is a little bit -- a little bump up, and this is mainly related to our high-performance investment that we have in Termoli, Italy. We are going after these markets, we are building the plant, the plant is up, the machinery will be in the plant in August and up running in October to make the new brake pads. So, it's a new market we are getting in and this is really because the reason of the higher CapEx. One positive things that I can share with you Scott is that we already have the awards and we already have the pads that we need to make come October 2024.

I think a little bit more, I would say, Scott. You're right when you say IP because the pipeline -- the funnel is rich of pumps and valves, but the connectors is a strategic area for us as well. I know that we are a small player on the connector, but we have a very good service with our customers. Usually, they have a great customer experience working with us. And when it comes, particularly in aero and defense, connectors is a great opportunity. And I would say not large deals on connectors, but for small, medium size.

Thanks, Scott.

Hi, Mike.

Sure. First of all, Mike, when it comes to the award that we shared in the remarks, we didn't book, it's an award. So, this is -- we are going to work together with ExxonMobil in all the quotation for all those different size. You're talking about $80 million in the last three years and probably something around in the first year, something like probably $15 million, $20 million that will be booked in 2024.

When it comes to the general market, I want just to give you some stats. When you look at 2023, the revenue in IP was up 14%, but the book-to-bill, despite that growth in revenue, was more than 1. And despite these orders that grew tremendously, 10% for IP, 20% for the projects in IP, our funnel today is still the highest ever. It's up 23% year-over-year and up 16% sequentially versus Q3. So, this tells you the strength.

Last data, and then I shut up, is that also when you look at all the different geographies around the world, North American orders have been growing every year for the last three years. And the same was for Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East. The only area that has a little bit of a mixed picture is actually Europe.

Thanks, Mike.

Hi, Joe.

Sure. When you look at the short cycle, the short cycle orders in Q4 were up 7%. And also for the full year, they were up something between 7% and 8%, so it's been the strongest year ever when it comes, not just the orders of IP, their highest ever, but also the highest ever for the short cycle. Now, when you look at that 7% growth for the full year, Joe, I would say half-and-half price and volume, 3% was volume, 4% was price. So, now, we expect that to remain robust for 2024. When we look at the orders in January, they stayed strong and they were particularly strong in valves and baseline when it comes to January, but it's only a month.

Thanks, Joe.

Hi, Joe. Good.

Okay. So, maybe if I start and you, Emmanuel, can give the color. So, it's true. When you talk about 150 platforms, some of those are relatively small. If you think about 30 SoP in China in Q1, some of those are small. But let's not forget that also during 2023, some of the awards were the largest ever, like with the German premium OEMs. We won almost 100% of all their future EV platforms that we make around the world in China and in other parts, the Tesla Cybertruck where we won the front axle. So, there are several awards, small and medium. Our market share with Tesla now is more than 20% and we'll keep on ramping up with the awards. Our market share with BYD in 2023 is roughly now 10% and will double in the next couple of years. Those are when it comes to the awards. Emmanuel?

Thanks, Joe.

Hi, Matt.

Thanks, Matt.

Hi, Vlad.

Sure. Thanks, Vlad. So, I think that ExxonMobil was looking at a framework agreement, a framework agreement that will make many of their projects in the brownfield, all their facilities faster and they were looking for a partner. And what we were able to work was work for a long time together with them to ensure that our offerings, what we were putting together, was going to reduce the total cost of ownership that they had, improving the pump uptime, the reliability, all of that are key aspects in running those facilities. And the team has really worked closely with the customer for probably nine months, 12 months to ensure that we were really offering what they were looking at. So, that is a great award that is going to feed us growth in the next three years. I remind you that also when we look at our market share of the pumps installed in ExxonMobil for ITT, when we talk to them, is that was really a small percentage. So, this is a market share gain story.

When we look at some of the others customers, there're other big oil producers, where we had some special agreements. Like, for instance, we talk about the Bornemann pumps, another oil producer is really standardizing their carbon capture and their stop flaring with our technology. So, we do not have an agreement in place like this one, but I will not exclude it for the future.

I would say, 2025, obviously, would be a bigger impact than 2024. I want just to remind you, Vlad, that when you're talking about these facilities are the high performance. So, by definition, you do not have a high volume of brake pads, but the price of those brake pads is going to be higher. So, it's not huge volume, but it's going to be healthy margins. So, you will expect more benefits on that front definitely in 2025.

Thanks, Vlad.

Hi, Sabrina.

So, on the price cost, I would say price cost in 2024 will be slightly positive, Sabrina. Now, we are moving towards a normalization. So, we will see inflation abating. We will continue to see that. Think about Motion Technologies, in the last two quarters, we have seen that really contributing in a positive way. And now with that, with the inflation abating, then obviously the pricing will adjust accordingly, but 2024 will be price cost slightly positive.

Thank you.