Malcolm Wilson
GXO Logistics, Inc. (GXO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Stephanie. Good morning, it’s Malcolm here. Let me cover some points on that. So if we look at the broad macro where GXO is operating, continental Europe business, that's actually continued to do well. It recovered through the middle part of last year. And we're seeing similar trends right now in that business. Pleasingly, I think we're starting to see some recovery in our North American business and U.K. business. Green shoots, it’s early days, but definitely we're seeing, as we've moved into ‘24, we're seeing a different landscape than as we've left 2023.

When we look at the different categories of products that we deal with. We can broadly say that our food and beverage related business, technology, consumer, electronics, industrial manufacturing, they're all really the highlights. I would say slower is our omni-channel retail and consumer packaged goods. So there's no doubt the consumer is still under pressure. You know, we look at the metrics. We can see consumer spending money on services. But goods, it's still a sluggish environment.

Staying with the macro, I think one of the pronounced trends we've seen during the latter part of last year, and it's a trend we're starting ‘24 with, is across all of the different geographies. Our customers have been managing carefully inventory levels. I think there's been an adjustment to take into account what was generally a sluggish 2023. People have managed inventory levels smartly. We've been super proactive in working with our customers to do that also and customers have valued our inputs on that.

And generally I think we've seen organizations prioritizing price more than volume. And that gives you a feel for our last quarter volumes. It's early days, but I would say our trading results for January, they're definitely indicating a stronger trajectory for ‘24 than we were seeing in the last quarter. So it's a bit early to judge what the first-half of the year will look like, but definitely encouraging signs.

When we talk to customers, I would say, directionally speaking, they all expect their activity to be increasing sequentially as we're moving through 2024. Probably a slower first-half with a faster second-half. And I think that's broadly in line with every kind of commentary that we're seeing at the moment. What's pleasing for us is we've just finished ’23, we had really a great season for new business, a billion dollars of new business against that slower macro, that should not be underestimated. So we're very pleased with that.

As Adrian mentioned, a lot of big ticket implementations going on this year. Our pipeline is strong, you know, it's held up incredibly strong and maybe one of the most pleasing aspects for us is our pre-pipeline. Don't talk about our pre-pipeline a lot, but our pre-pipeline right now is about 20% up year-over-year, and there are a lot of big transformative projects coming into that, projects that will require a lot of automation. So all of that gives us a good feeling about 2023. And obviously from a GXO perspective, as we move progressively through ‘24, you know, our comps become considerably easier as we go through. So substantial growth on the pipeline, I think, is what we're seeing right now. And we're going into the year with a degree of confidence about ‘24 and how it's going to pan out.

Yes, let me hand you over to Baris, Stephanie, for that detail.

Scott, It's Malcolm here. Let me take the first part of that, and then I'll ask Baris to comment on some of the numbers. You're absolutely right, reverse logistics, it's a huge growth area for our business. Right now, across our total company, it's starting to represent high-single-digits of our combined activities. And when I look at the sales pipeline, it's very clear to see there's a huge number of projects coming through with a high degree element of reverse logistics. If you remember back right to the beginning of GXO, we always talked about those big tailwinds, more and more companies outsourcing their logistics.

Well, absolutely in ‘23, we can see that in absolute action. You know, 40% of our business wins coming from that category. That's a real growth, probably outstripping our own expectations even. We also talked about automation, and Adrian has already touched on that. And again, those outsourcing contracts, people outsourcing sometimes for the first time, automation plays a huge part of it, because people are catching up, they're recognizing that efficiency is everything and automation is a simple way for us to drive that.

And then lastly, e-fulfillment, we don't talk so much about it but it's still one of our fastest growing activities. And again, automation playing a big part of it. So these are the trends we're seeing as we've seen in ‘23. We think we're going to continue to see those growth engines across our business. And really, I think we're in a super position to capitalize on that as GXO. Baris?

Yes, hi Ravi, Malcolm here. Good morning, let me cover those few topics and I'll also ask Adrian to come in on the shape of the pipeline and what customers are saying. As I mentioned right at the beginning of this call, one of the very pronounced points that we've seen in 2023, and no surprise, customers are eager to look how we can improve, how we can bring new efficiency, help them in the task of becoming more efficient in their own organizations. And clearly, automation plays a huge part of that. It's really leaning into our wheelhouse. We're seen in the marketplace as an innovator able to help organizations bring more efficiency.

And again, no surprise, a huge amount of our business wins, a companies who are looking to outsource, looking to partners like GXO for the very first time. It's been a big source of growth and I think that's a trend that we're going to continue to see. So higher interest rates, higher inflation, all driving people to need to look for more efficiency.

Adrian, may be useful just to share on some of that metric in the context of automation also?

And Ravi, just one last point. You asked about inventory levels, I guess one of the trends we saw in the latter part of last year was organizations really adjusting inventory levels to suit the sale of goods. People need less inventory if they're selling less products. So no doubt whatsoever we saw that trend. We think that will start to reverse as economies pick up. No doubt we missed customer volumes in last year, but really we expect those will start to return as general macro starts to strengthen across all of the geographies that we're seeing. So definitely, that's something that we're looking for in ‘24.

Thank you.

Hi, Brandon, it's Malcolm here. Yes, I think in a nutshell, that's how we do see things. So effectively, '23, it's been a sluggish year. We've seen that in customer volumes inventories that's what we manage it throughout the warehouses. So -- but as we're going into '24, we can see signs of a stronger sales pipeline, but also importantly, it's not just about the size of the actual -- the number of dollars in the sales pipeline is the kind of vertical activity that we see coming through. It's the speed at which we can take business on. Big automated sites tend to carry a longer lead time for starting up then a kind of takeover in place. And one of the aspects we've seen throughout last year.

And again, if we look at our sales pipeline, we can see quite a lot of projects where customers eager to transform their own supply chain, eager to transform their own warehousing activities. They're looking for GXO to step in to an existing operation. And then bring automation progressively through the life of the contract. And that can take several years, and there were some large high-profile customer examples of that during 2023 that we're actually still implementing.

So I think when we look at the future activity, all of the building blocks that we talked about in our Investor Day are really there. They’re on track lots of signing of high-quality long-term business. We saw that in '23, even against that tough macro outsourcing, people choosing to outsource that big proportion of the addressable market that really was never really part of our calculation. That's accelerating and again, we've seen that throughout '23. We see it in our sales pipeline now going forward.

As Adrian has just mentioned, so much more in the context of automation and robotics is driving -- it's really driving business towards GXO. Even last year, 67% year-over-year increases of the deployment of these kind of projects. And as Baris mentioned, all the productivity project is well on track. So we're really feeling good about the future outlook for GXO.

Amit, hi, it's Malcolm here. And your question is really topical. I've also seen plenty of news reports about incremental capacity here in the North American market. From our perspective, a good way to explain is the core of our business is contracted, long-term contracts. So customers tend to occupy a warehouse they fund the warehouse. It's part of the cost makeup. It's part of the contract makeup.

So in regard to our core EBITDA, it's actually quite a neutral aspect from our point of view. And you see that in our '23, our actual EBITDA came in ahead of our original outlook. We were well ahead in terms of the full year. What you do see, though, and this is one of the big benefits that GXO brings to our customers is as inventory levels normally -- we see inventory levels will flex in any year up and down, what we have seen through '23 is a more pronounced lowering down of inventory levels.

So customers, it takes some time to change some time to change manufacturing plans, to reflect new sales outlook, but gradually, they've lowered down inventory levels. For us, we see that in the environment where we work with them proactively to consolidate warehousing activity. So for large customers, we might have several fully contracted warehouses, but we might also operate some transient warehousing where for GXO, we have relatively short-term commitments on it.

Those kind of warehouses, it's in our interest and it's in our customers' interest to contract those volumes back into our main centers. And that's exactly what we've done. That's what being a proactive partner is all about. But the end result of that is you're absolutely right. When you look at the real estate market, progressively, you end up with more empty capacity. So for us, we see we don't see it so much in our profitability. We do see it in our top line growth because that volume, we're no longer invoicing. And we expect to see that a research back pretty much in alignment with as we would expect the macro to start becoming stronger for consumer goods.

Today, it's already strong for services, but we needed to really recover properly for consumer goods. So I hope that gives you an understanding of how we see it as a business. But we are seeing exactly what is widely reported at the moment, but not really impacting us in terms of how we judge our profitability or how we judge our customer relationships. For those, it's more an opportunity for us to demonstrate our worth to our customers.

Yes. Amit, let me carry on the answer, Malcolm here. So we review everything on it. Clearly, there are geography where we want to be in new verticals. And when we enter a new vertical, typically, we're focused on growing that new vertical. So PFS is a great example. It's not a play about driving a lot of cost synergy. There is, of course, when you put 2 businesses together, you gain cost synergy, but it's a play about driving bigger growth, and we're off to a great start with PFS.

It's already -- it's doing very, very well. We're very, very pleased with the PFS team and how that business is integrated into GXO. But there are other aspects where we have to look opportunistically as well. If there's a business out there that we like, good quality, it's in good condition and we can see big synergies. Of course, we'd be interested also in those. So I would say it's about what's out there in the market what we're trying to accomplish at the time, and as Baris mentioned, overarching all of that it's got to be delivering accretive benefits. It's going to be in the interest of the company in the interest of our shareholders. That's really how we look at the market.

Hey, Brian, I think what we can see right now is a trend that's going to continue. Remember that we called out this trend all the way back in, I think, 2020, even pre the spin of GXO that more and more companies were going to outsource their logistics. The reason we said that at the time and the reason it really still holds correct. It's been reinforced, I think, through '23 is the fact that, one, we've had several years of disruption, the pandemic, supply chain disruptions, manufacturing disruption. And then on top of that, we've had 1.5 years of really severe kind of inflationary pressure, interest rate pressure.

That's put a burden on so many organizations who don't want to pass those incremental burdens on to the consumer. So they look at how can they do things differently, how can they do things more efficiently. And the most organizations, it's very daunting when the obvious solution probably involves bringing technology into the warehouse. They're not generally equipped to do that. So it's a logical step for them to look for an outsourced partner. And as the largest pure-play contract logistics company in the market with our reputation for delivering these big projects on time being a reliable partner. For us, it's super. I mean, this is all playing into GXO's wheelhouse. So we're very excited about it.

That trend is set to stay. It's the very reason Baris just mentioned and Adrian, we've doubled down on our expenditure in terms of teams, deploying automation on our sales organization, I think it's going to be a trend that's going to service GXO very, very well in the future years.

Yes, Brian, for us, it's not a substantial enough amount of our capacity for it to make a real impact. But our GXO direct customers, just the same as pretty much all of the customers that we can think of, have not been immune to this last 12 months slower pace of consumer spending. So clearly, across all of our business, we've seen that.

As I mentioned earlier, the vast majority of warehouses that we operate are fully back to back with our customers. So the smaller proportion that sit in our GXO direct world is really not -- it's not any material impact on our outlook.

Yes. Thanks, Darryl. And again, as always, thanks for hosting our call today. We really appreciate it. '23, it's been a great year for GXO. So we've delivered huge free cash flows. That $1 billion of new business wins and towards the end, we are super excited about the acquisition of PFS, which is really performing incredibly well. We're driving great service and efficient benefits for both our new and of course, our existing customers through deploying game-changing technologies right across all of our footprint.

Looking forward, we're excited by the future growth opportunities that we've been talking about on this call. We're increasingly the partner of choice for the huge in-house portion of our market which is looking to more and more outsourced. And we're growing in a manner that's delivering fantastic returns for our shareholders.

So with that, we'd like to wish everybody a great rest of the day. Thanks so much for joining us on this call and your attendance and look forward to speaking to you again in the future.