Marcus Lemonis
Camping World Holdings, Inc. (CWH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

So, I want to unpack that in two different categories. We believe that the new margins are going to sequentially improve as we continue, to move out of 2023, and really get back to a more normalized margin state for the full year. We actually think we have a pretty good shot at that. On the use side, as we mentioned earlier, when we had success in renegotiating the '24 pricing.

We had to acknowledge that the success on one side, could create a short-term risk for us on the other side, and that's the used inventory values. We, through the fourth quarter, took a lot of gas and a lot of pain in liquidating that used inventory, and at the same time shut off our procurement of use, at a pretty rapid pace. So that we could bring cash back in, wait for the market to settle in with the appropriate new derived values based on pricing, and then we would work our way back up.
I expect the used margin compression, to continue through the end of Q1, because we really believe that if we can just bring our cash back in and turn that inventory, it will pay dividends in Q2, Q3, and Q4. The compression of margin that we're experiencing in Q1, that's self-inflicted, doesn't change our outlook for the full year.
It just moves a lot of the profitability, as expected, to the normal quarters where we make the bulk of our money, which is Q2 and Q3, and we will have a much better Q4 than we did the last two years.

I missed that one word, Good Sam activation.

es, I mean, look, that's the technical answer. Here's the other answer, and that is we love this business. We love the Good Sam business, and when we look at the last five to 10 years, it has been our crown jewel, and we believe it will continue to be. The management changes that we've made there in the last several years have clearly paid dividends. And from our perspective, it's really about understanding how we're going to unlock value for our shareholders.

There are a lot of different scenarios, and we're not married to any of them. In fact, at the end of the day, we just want to understand what our options are, but that business continues to perform, and we expect it to continue to be the stable rock in our portfolio.

I'm going to separate that into two very specific answers. One, we are very hopeful that the industry at large is rebounding. And that's important for us, because the growth of the installed base is the giant feeder for our service business, our Good Sam business, our parts business, we need the overall industry to be healthy. We need the manufacturers to get back to working production cycles, where they're shipping north of 350,000 units at a minimum.

But we do believe that, there are things that we are doing that have allowed us to outpace our competitors. And when you look at the decision to drive down ASPs, consciously drive down ASPs in the face of what is still pretty material interest rates, we think that's made a big, big difference.

I think the other piece that we are really starting to recognize is that the creativity that we have worked on in developing some of our private label brands, like the launch of Eddie Bauer, which previewed materially at both Hershey and Tampa, and the consistent performance of Coleman, has made a big difference. But we have also seen solid performance out of our Keystone business and our JACO business just the same.

And we've seen good explosive growth with the new acquisitions of certain dealerships that had grand design. So, I think there's a combination of a lot of things. Cleaning the inventory was actually, in our opinion, the biggest driver of all of it. And taking the pain that we took, and will continue to take for another couple months is really what is putting the wind in our sales, and setting us up nicely.

We still believe that the general macro environment is tough. I mean, interest rates are still high, and we're not going to prognosticate on how many interest rates cuts there will be, will probably in our mind thinking that there may be two, and they're later in the year. So there still is some headwind that we have to work through. Us having a 30% improvement in EBITDA over a lower number is not any high five moment for our company.

So - while we're confident that we can get there, it is not a celebratory moment. We continue to work forward, in making sure that our inventory is clean, our SG&A is tight, so that we can enjoy that type of growth hopefully in the years past 2024. I think from our perspective, we're expecting retail and wholesale, to be in the 360 to 370 range. And while there are some that believe it could go higher.

We have to be realistic that there's still a possibility that it could even go lower. But we're comfortable with that band. And what we're seeing in the marketplace, both from shows, both from looking at other dealers' websites, is that there is momentum happening with more than just us. We think we're just outpacing everybody a little bit.

Thank you.

Well, there's always a really important distinction between taking fixed costs out of the business and understanding that variable costs tied to commissions and advertising are going to go up as volume goes up. What we're really focused on is driving down our SG&A as a percentage of our gross profit. That is really the focus.

And I want to turn it over to Tom, who really was the architect, of looking through the expense structure and finding those things while recognizing that as volume comes back, right variable expenses are going to go with it.

But I'll give you a small little case in point, right? One of the things that we work very hard on in '23 is to renegotiate certain leases, look at exiting certain properties and just driving down those fixed costs that weren't generating any revenue. We exited the active sports business. For the most part, we still have a very small web presence, but we started to get out of distribution centers in underperforming locations.

Because we can't afford to wait for the market to come back while we burn through money. Until we made some tough decisions, and we will continue to do that as we always have as we enter '24. I will be really crystal clear about that. The expense reductions aren't done. We're always going to be looking for things that we can eliminate, getting out of things that don't perform well, eliminating staff members that are contributing to the bottom line are generating revenue.

That is always going to be the thesis. I will tell you though, one of the things that we are excited to see is as rates come down, our floor plan expense comes down, and it comes down materially. For every 0.5 point that comes down, I mean you're talking about big numbers on an annual basis when you have $1 billion of inventory.
So as we look at driving advertising costs down, getting out of poor-performing locations, making sure we have the right staff levels, modifying pay plans, which is always tough, we are going to wait for some wind to come into our sales that is outside of our control, but that we anticipate happening at some point.

Just to put a finer point on it, we're going to make acquisitions or close on those acquisitions here in a pretty steady pace over the next 12 weeks. And there are going to be '22 and '23 model year new units coming into our system. So if you analyze our website or run any metrics against our website, you will see a jump in that. We want to be crystal clear that the value of those units coming into our system that are '22 and '23 are materially lower than the original invoice cost.

They are on the money as we would say. So there should be no negative gross profit experience coming from those acquisitions. So please, when you see those units come into our system, do not arrive that there is some sort of problem, just understand they're on the money. And that was in large part, the reason we were able to make the acquisition of what was a very successful business that just got into inventory trouble.

Thank you.

Yes. Well, the 19% was largely driven by assistance from the manufacturers who understood the necessity, and that had been pre-negotiated months and months and months in advance that, they needed to help us participate in that cleansing. On a go-forward basis, the normal margins are in that 13% to 14% range. And we really believe that, that is a sustainable long-term strategy that gives us the velocity we need to do volume and transactions.

As we have said for a very, very long time, the lowest contribution of margin in our entire portfolio is the new margin. Even when it gets up to 15%, 16%, 17% during COVID periods, we rely on the F&I transaction, the service and parts transaction and all the Good Sam attachment to all those things, making that entire transaction more valuable. One thing that we have to do a better job of in '24 and '25 is we need volume and market share back.

Our company feeds off of a larger installed base. That has always and will continue to be our business model. So when volume contracts, it has a long-lasting effect on more than just the new sales of our business. It affects our F&I, it affects our compensation metrics. SG&A as a percentage of growth. So what we're most excited about in '24 is driving those ASPs down, going out and grabbing market share in categories that we believe our competition is late to the party on and understanding that volume and transactions.

And getting volumes back to pre-COVID levels is job number one. Our new volume by location has hit a level along with everybody else in the industry that is unacceptable to us and not sustainable. So as we want to kick start that volume again and get these same stores, not new stores, we get these same-stores to contribute at a level that they historically contributed to that.

We need volume which is why we're pushing down the ASPs, which is why we're going to accelerate into new volume that really is the thesis. But I don't want anybody to look at the Q4 new margin and think that's some trackable event for the next 12, 24, 36 months. It's an abnormality, but it was a planned abnormality that we knew, would help us push that through.

So when Matt and I drove away from the open house in September, and he had, had unbelievable success in renegotiating that '24 pricing. We both looked at each other in the car and said, we better get ahead of these used values. One key component of the Good Sam RV Valuator is invoice pricing on new models is an input into that equation along with a number of other factors. And we knew that as that was a factor, that valuator was going to be impacted in terms of how it saw used values.

We knew driving home on that day that we needed to be quick and fast in exiting all used inventory that had been procured under the premise that values were higher on the [technical difficulty]. At the same time, we were unsure of ourselves in terms of our willingness, our appetite to take on risk and continue to procure inventory at the same time while we knew there was a falling knife on used values.

So we pulled back on our procurement knowing that it was going to affect volume because if you have less inventory in stock, you're going to sell less. But in our thesis, as money came out of our used inventory and came back into our cash account, we felt that it was the right thing to do. We are not done in cleansing that used inventory. There is some hangover, there's a material amount of hangover in Q1, but that's self-inflicted.

Many dealers, many recreational dealers, auto dealers, et cetera, would do what's called kick the can, and they would just worry about dealing with the aging later. We have been disciplined since the beginning, of this company on how we manage our used inventory. And the reason for that, is that we know that the #1 thing that could kill a business is poor inventory management.

Our best loss is our first loss and recognizing that the values are overstated, but not a lot, but enough to be material, we needed to act quickly. Our volume on the used side will be temporarily constrained, because we are not chasing procuring inventory just yet.

I would expect that in the month of March, probably towards the middle, we will turn back on the procurement, so that we have a more robust spring and summer unused, and we feel more comfortable with how the values have settled in.

Yes, sir.

Yes, sir.

Yes. The good news is, right, that we really look at the core business and the core service business seems to be…

The one thing that I cannot sort of avoid is as the new volume comes back, and as we trade for more units, and as more customers are out on the road, both the existing ones and new ones, that service business has a natural rise that ties back to overall sales growth. So we expect to see over the next several years, continued improvement, continued Bay utilization, et cetera. It was a tough 24 months for us.
And I don't want to avoid that topic. Even service was up because when volume falls, everything sort of falls with it. Yes, our used business helps us keep reconditioning things going. But that's internal work. We need to see more customer pay work where people are out using their rigs, and we're eliminating pain points for them. And that is a clear focus for us for the next 36 months.

It's always tough to feel really good about acquisitions that we buy at super trough multiples in a trough environment because the trough environment still is the macro environment that, that business has to function with. What we have been successful in doing and what we think is the bright spot is the integration of the brand, the installation of our process in F&I.

The installation of our process in service, the readjustment of the inventory matrix to have new use, those things have been real bright spots. But to have those acquisitions really make us feel good, we need the overall market to come back so that our same-store business grows and our new store grows in time.

That's an excellent question. And Good Sam has portions of its revenue that are deferred. And so when we have a good year, the deferred income happens over 2 or 3 or 4 years based on the product that we sold. Oddly enough, when volume is down, the deferred revenue doesn't - isn't as robust. And we've already been through that process over the last two years, where we've had to make other moves inside of the business to grow that business.

As volume comes back, we expect first year revenue recognition and then the following year's revenue recognition to improve materially. And that's an excellent assessment because that's ultimately how the Good Sam business works. You need good volume over a long period of time to help. That's why we're excited for volume to come back. That business needs just the same.




Yes. I mean we're not where we want to be in terms of full maturity coming back into mid-cycle yet. We would not consider 2024 a mid-cycle year. We're still in a -- we're not in the trough but we're not at mid-cycle. And mid-cycle has always targeted us to be around 68% to 69%. I would expect we'll be in the 70% to 72% range that - I mean, excuse me, 72% to 74% range in 2024.




Okay. Great. I'm going to try to unpack that in a couple of different ways. The first is we -- I don't recall ever saying that we thought both new and used would be up materially in '24. I think we believe that same-store total unit sales will be up, but it is largely driven by new on a double-digit basis. So that's a big contributor.
The second contributor is we also believe that we're not going to experience the same gross margin pain through the second and third quarter that we were experiencing last year. And the third piece is, as Tom mentioned earlier, we have made some material SG&A reductions. The combination of those 3 is what's giving us the ability to have a fairly decent '24. We don't consider a 30% growth in our EBITDA number, anything to celebrate. We're coming off of a low number.
We're trying to dig out of a low trough environment, and we're trying to get back to mid-cycle, which we think is probably going to be more realistic in the 25 to 26 years that, that will be far more robust. We are working our ass off [ph] to get to a number in '24 that cobbles together better margins, better top line revenue on new sustaining our relevance in used, continuing to grow our service business and stabilize our use -- our Good Sam business, while we are contracting costs at the fastest rate that we possibly can.
That's what's helping us get there. There is no grand macro wind that's going to take us to 30% up in 2024. We believe that's possible in '25 and '26, and we've seen this moving before. But we do have to work through that. So that is the stacker builder model to get to that '24 number. Can you remind me on the second half of your question, I apologize?


Yes. I mean the SG&A as a percentage of gross is a hump to get there. And I really believe that while the 72% to 74% is a goal, we have a lot of work to do to get there. We're going to need those margins to come back in our model today of 30% EBITDA growth, it's probably closer to, call it, 76 % 77% and we have a lot of work to do to get there.
And so I'm optimistic on the SG&A side, probably more optimistic than I should be. But we feel comfortable with that number. We have no change from 3 or 4 months ago. I don't see any different strategy. The one thing I do want to put a very strong point on is that we are going to continue to stay disciplined around inventory.
I cannot stress that enough. We are going to continue to stay disciplined. And while we know that, that doesn't make everybody happy, we promise that the investment in staying discipline will yield much better results in this year and the following years. We cannot get lazy in managing that. So the used margins are going to continue to take pressure.


In Q1.




By the end of the year. By the end of the year. It's kind of interesting, and I'm hoping you guys heard what I did. We're apologizing and disappointed with used margins that are still going to be higher than everybody's excitement, around new margins. And what that tells you is the used business is the secret sauce of this company. And the reason that we are so diligent right now in the hygiene around it, it's because we know that that's what's going to carry us for the balance of '24, '25, '26 and beyond.
We go as the new market goes. And there are years where we outperformed the market and there are years where we underperformed the market on new. We have to be always outperforming the market unused, and we know that cleansing is the key to that.




Good morning.


No. I mean, look, the manufacturers are always supportive. It's not about stopping the spigot, it's so that there's not a lot of water left in the tank. There's not a lot of necessity for it. And we made the commitment with them to be proactive together. And the assistance that we're getting is similar to the assistance that other people are getting. They may be showing it in marketing co-op or floor plan assistance or a variety of other areas.
But the manufacturers have been, in my opinion, stellar in understanding that the overall growth of the market is dependent on the cleanliness of the inventory. And if you look back in 2023, each manufacturer took a lot of pain and a lot of gas, both on the top line side, and on their overall contribution to dealers to cleanse inventory. We're hopeful that the bulk of that's done.
There are still a subset of dealers out there that have issues with their inventory. You can see it in the general marketplace. We don't think it's as prevalent as it was seven months ago, but there are still some. That's usually how acquisitions come to our front door because our inventory struggles. The manufacturers in the 20-something years that I've been doing this, for the first time to this degree, really do understand the importance of units moving through the channel.
And I compliment them on three specific things: one, they don't seem to be making spec inventory like they were before, trying to be far more in line with what the retail registrations are; two, they acknowledge the need to drive down the cost of a like-for-like unit by being more innovative, negotiating with suppliers, suppliers being more willing to participate; and three, everybody really does understand that inventory management for the first time and hopefully.
The final time is key to having symbiotic communication with the dealer to not outpace it. In the past, manufacturers would overproduce, dealers will get overstocked, and we'd go through the same cycle. I think maybe for the first time, that lesson has been more learned than ever.




Yes - we don't. Yes. Let me jump into this one. We don't order - like we don't wake up in the morning and just order. We have a six to nine-month planning that we sit down with each manufacturer to ensure that we're ordering inventory the right way. And what we want to be careful of is that we're ordering and looking at demand while we're ordering. So we're not just going to go out and place a ton of orders.
'25s are going to come at some point. And we don't know when that's going to happen. We believe that the manufacturers are going to stay disciplined and allow dealers to work through their '24 inventory as we hit the selling season in the spring and the summer and then roll out '25 at the appropriate time.




I mean we have very, very little enhancement to our number based on any rate cuts happening. If it's $1 million, that would be a lot in the back half of the year.




I think the one thing that we don't want to have happen to be totally honest with these. We want this perfect balance between prices reducing, and the consumer not losing confidence in the value of the asset they just bought. That's a really, really important thing. Like we want to drive value to the consumer. And we want the manufacturer to make money, and we want to make money.
But if we keep moving having these wild swings in invoice pricing, the customer is going to lose confidence and more importantly, the banks will lose confidence in what their end value is. This whole model for 2024 was really built on a couple of assumptions, and I want to close out with just kind of clarifying a few things. Number one, we expect new volume sales to improve.
We expect used volume to stay relatively flat, and there will be nip and tuck. But for the full year, we expect it to stay relatively flat. We expect gross margins on the new side to sequentially improve, but are not going to have some COVID type margin return. That's not going to happen. We expect used margins to materially sequentially return as we start the year in that 15% range in Q1 and get back to a normalized number by year-end.
On the expense side, this is maybe the most important takeaway. We've always had a goal of having SG&A at 70% or below. But a number of factors are important in understanding how we get there. One of them is taking care of our people. And what we did not want to do is start going through our organization and just eliminating head count without any logic to it because we know this industry comes back.




In a matter of 60 days, we saw our numbers go from negative -- materially negative on the new side to reasonably positive and that happened really quickly. And we know that as we get in the selling season that can happen. The worst customer experience and the worst overall brand building that a company can have is when customers come in and there's nobody to answer the phone, nobody could call them back, nobody to take care of them.
So as we manage the SG&A as a percentage of gross, we have to have a finer balance. When I say things like 72% and 73%, the rest of the team looks at me like I'm nuts. I'm probably more optimistic about how things could return. But the reality of it is, is that expenses are going to continue to be there, particularly when floor plan is high and marketing dollars are high, and we're taking on acquisitions.
Our standards are not going to change in the foreseeable future, for the overall mid-cycle look. And that is an 8% EBITDA margin, SG&A as a percentage of gross at 70%. Those two numbers have been constant forever, and we've had numbers as high as 13%, and we've had numbers - excuse me, as well as those two numbers, and we've had the opposite. As we work through the 2024 calendar year, we are confident that we're going to do what it takes to get to the 30% plus number of EBITDA.
The inputs are still moving around a little bit. Maybe pick up a little bit more margin, we hope. Are our expense is going to be better? Of course, they are. But we have to be realistic about what we're dealing with in this environment and not set ourselves up for credibility issues with the customer, with our employees or with you. So we're sticking to our number because we know we can get there.
But there is a lot of moving parts and pieces. And we do believe that the bulk of the earnings for the company, like every other year, are going to happen in Q2 and Q3. I think the difference for us, is that we expect Q4 to be better. We expect it to be better, because there was a lot of noise in our Q4 number last year. And we want to be super clear about that. So if there are no other formal questions, we want to move into the Q&A section.


Operator, we'll go ahead and move into the Q&A section, please. That's it, we're done. Okay. Thank you very much for joining our call. We want to confirm there's no more questions.




Great. Thank you so much.