Marc Rowan
Apollo Global Management, Inc. (APO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So you are absolutely correct, Bill. I do see an opening in the 401(k) market. The 401(k) market is not limited by legal restriction. It's limited by a risk mentality as a result of substantial litigation over a long period of time, but I think we're seeing a stabilization, particularly as the set -- suite of private products is no longer all high fee, high carry, locked away in funds. You're watching the first baby steps as fiduciary managers in 401(k) begin to mix-in private into their heretofore public solutions simply to get better outcomes and better diversification. The other thing we're seeing is we're seeing a focus on guaranteed lifetime income or guaranteed income, where annuities are going into target date funds and for the same purpose.

I believe we're going to see a continued migration. I don't have the number in front of me, but my memory is kind of plus $1 billion this year in 401(k) and fiduciary retirement products. I think again we're at the very beginning of this, just like I feel we're at the very beginning of wealth. And I'll pivot to wealth: Much of what's happened in our industry, whether it is regulation, which has been a negative, or it's been the opening of the high net worth market, which has been a positive, has for the most part benefited the large multiproduct firms. To serve the wealth channel, to serve RIA channels, to serve a global market, this is not a small exercise. This is 150 people in the field, product, infrastructure. It does not make sense to do product but only if you are firmly committed in moving your business and you see a future of a multiproduct variety.

And so I think that there are a handful of firms who have a right to play in this market and have made the investment. It's not 2 and I don't think it's more than 10. This market is growing. We are at the infancy of it, and firms is kind of coming at this in their own way. I think there are good and bad that's being done. I'll just give you our way. We are focused on taking in money from this market not as quickly as we can but as quickly as we can deploy. Ultimately, producing good returns, not having extreme volatility, thinking long and hard about whether we offer this market binary outcome products, is how we're going to approach it. We want to position ourselves as the innovator in this marketplace rather than the largest in this marketplace, and I think we're -- we've made good progress in doing it. We have a lot of work to do, but I remain very optimistic.

Let me hit that quickly. And then I -- we will not -- you -- I'll get -- you get your chance to ask the larger question, in violation of the operator's policy, but think of it -- so the easiest way to see it: AAA, which represents all the platforms and all the investments, basically was circa 10% this year, not quite the 11% that we hope for but generally good direction given that we are not focused on the kind of beta of the public markets and leverage the tech and AI and things like that. The difference between that and the Athene performance is a drag on certain insurance stakes. So Athene holds, outside of AAA, its investment in Challenger, its investment in Catalina, its investment in Venerable. We had less appreciation this year in those stakes versus the overall portfolio, and that's the difference, Bill. There's really no other differences of note.

So we -- when we set out our 5-year targets a little over 2 years ago, we -- the 5-year target was to get to $150 billion of origination. I believe that we are -- and that would be "2026." I believe that we are well on our way to achieving that target. $30 billion of run rate and really high-quality run rate in the fourth quarter was very encouraging. The plans for this year also call for continued tick-up in origination volumes. Origination is the lifeblood of our business. When we step back and we start thinking about the next 5 years, which would carry us 5 years from today, to power the business to where we want to be, if we want to serve the fixed income replacement market, essentially if we want to go to institutions and offer them private investment grade in place of their current fixed income allocation, we need to originate more. If we want to play a role in allowing high-net-worth investors and institutional investors to pivot out of active management of equity -- I believe they're going to pivot into hybrid. We need to originate more hybrid.

And fundamentally if we're going to grow our business, it is limited not so much by the amount of capital raised. And I respect that capital raising is a very important part of this. And sometimes it's easy and sometimes it's difficult, but in the long run, a firm that offers excess return, which all of the alternatives firms do, we are only as good as our capacity to generate investments that produce excess return per unit of risk. It is the lifeblood of our business. And we are very focused on moving past the $150 billion original 5-year goal and ramping that to as close to $250 billion, which I believe is a realistic target going out. More to come [indiscernible] in October of this year, at Investor Day, but this is job one and two for our firm to sustain growth, and truly for every firm, Bill.

So a -- some of it is more boots on the ground and building out what we call high-grade alpha or high-grade solutions. And that's been, as Scott highlighted, a very good business; and a very unique product for us; and one, quite frankly, that doesn't make a lot of sense across asset management unless you are both an agent and a principal. We built this business to power Athene. We then decided for good and valid reasons that we should be fully diversified, so we began to power third-party insurers because, after all, we want 25% of everything and 100% of nothing.

And now we also discover that institutions, as they are evaluating how to improve their performance in their traditionally public-only investment-grade bond portfolio, are willing to begin to move toward private, so long as it is at the same rating. This is happening with extraordinary speed in the conversation in the consulting world and with the innovators, and I believe it's going to continue to happen. In terms of where the volume comes from, yes, there will be more people with more coverage, but for us, we have 16 origination platforms. Only a couple of them are at scale. This is about growing the origination platforms. We are -- and I don't think we need a 17th, although that may , but that is not the goal.

We are not short opportunity. It's now about focus and execution and simply delivering. I mean, even a $20 billion origination platform or $22 billion, which is MidCap, it still has lots of room to grow. MidCap is way too U.S., just building out their European business, adding products. They have the capacity to double that business. Atlas has the capacity to double their business; , more than double their business. We have to actually scale what we have and execute, and we're doing it in a very supportive environment.

Recall that we are the beneficiary of regulatory choice around the globe where regulators have decided that they prefer more of the investment -- more of the debt capital in markets to come from the investor marketplace than from the banking system. That does not mean the banking system doesn't play a vital role or that it will shrink. It simply means that credit growth, which typically follows GDP -- I believe that much of that growth is going to occur in the investment marketplace. Some of that will in pure-beta products, investment-grade bonds and high-yield bonds that we are just not all that interested in, but we're talking about a massively large market where we are, even at our size, a small participant. So I do the following math, Alex, it's helpful: We have a $500 billion private credit business today.

Somewhere between $150 billion and $200 billion of that is beta. For us to double our credit business, we have to . I like our chances of doing that over the next 5 years because the beta comes for free.

I think you're hearing from us. In a week or 2, on the fixed income call, you'll hear from Jim Belardi. And if you look back in history, the team sitting in New York is a little more conservative than the team sitting out in , but I want to caution this is not just about volume. We can generate all the volume that we want. And I'm going to encourage you to really look into how people are generating volume. When you buy a secondary block of business, you're buying something that's degraded from a surrender charge point of view. I'm not sure that's good business. I'm not sure I can invest against that. I'm not sure I like the potential risk of that business. So we can do a victory lap by growing, but that's not the growth I want.

We can also do a victory lap by growing 3-year [indiscernible]. That's going to feel great this year and next year and the following year, but all I'm doing is setting up a cliff that is ultimately going to fall off. And I may not like the 3-year [indiscernible] years from now. We are focused on high-grading the business that we do. I would rather do $70 billion of business that $80 billion or $85 billion of business. And I think, while it is -- while many of you are learning this business, we've been living in this business for 15 years and the headlines are just not -- are not what they seem. And this gets also into the guidance on SRE. We had an unbelievable 2023. Jim Belardi and team, Grant Kvalheim and team, I hope they're listening. They should be doing victory laps. We actually did what we say we do.

We were not a current-period profit maximizer. We ended the year north of $12 billion of cash. We ended the year with a sizable treasury portfolio, which we almost never have. And we essentially high-graded the portfolio and built liquidity because we had already grown 25%. We have the opportunity, should Apollo, now the pressure is on Apollo, continue at the $30 billion-plus run rate of origination, to actually do what we want to do, which is deploy into investment-grade and yield-y private credit that locks in on a matched basis high spread. That will cushion a big chunk of what people would normally expect to fall off from rates.

The other thing that happens rates up, rates down. In a rates up, we tend to go -- we tend to get a full benefit of it, but recall that, when rates are up, everything that we own is worth less. We lose flexibility in the portfolio. In a rates down, everything that we own is in gain position. We have massive flexibility in the portfolio. We have the ability to rotate out of investment-grade corporates and into originated private investment grade. The pressure is not on Jim Belardi and Grant. The pressure is on us. We have to originate more of what they need. And recall that they don't want 100% of what we originate. They want 25% of everything, so for us to really scale their business and scale our third-party business comes back to origination. We need to originate more.

So this is Marc. I'm going to give a conceptual and then Martin will address the specifics. If you look at history in our portfolio -- and this is not history of 1 year, but you look over 15 years. Then you say, where have the vast majority of losses come from in the investment portfolio? They've come from the corporate IG book, the thing that everyone thinks is safe. And if we're -- if you think of that as like most investors, a lot of that is based on rating and diversification and industry classifications. That no longer suffices. Athene has decided that it makes more sense to bonus the people who are managing portfolios for them, net of specific losses and net of specific impairments, which now include the corporate IG bond book. What we saw was it -- 100% of the charge for the change took place in 1 quarter, as opposed to spread over 4 quarters. Ultimately the belief is and the reason this was done is that this on a net basis should be a positive for Athene, but in the quarter it was taken, we're just calling it out so you know exactly why it was taken.

Yes. The color I would give in this -- and this is as you evaluate entering into this business. The reason we are successful raising sidecars -- and people buy into the business pro rata with Athene and actually pay both Athene and Apollo fees for the privilege of doing retirement services business. The reason this works is they, the investors, have seen us over a very long period of time stick to a mantra of high cash-on-cash returns. The ability to produce north of 15% cash-on-cash returns growth in book value over that period of time; and to step away from the market; and to step away from kinds of transactions that, while would give us growth, but -- are not fundamentally good transactions is why we're trusted with this capital. People will discover very quickly that this business done poorly is very capital intensive. This business done well is a great business, so I just step back to the big economics. It costs roughly $0.08 of capital for every dollar of growth. If you fund all $0.08 yourself -- you can do the math as to how big you get and how much capital you need. Roughly 2/3 of that $0.08 is funded by third parties who for -- pay us a fee for the privilege of funding because it offers excess return per unit of risk and they are aligned with us. And they know that we will be good stewards of their capital. If firms do not produce high rates of return and do not make fundamentally good strategic choices, they will not be trusted with sidecars; and that will be the difference between success and failure.

So the product set for annuities, if you look over a long period of time, has not evolved all that much. We entered the market [indiscernible] a decade ago. And the changes that we made to the product in the context of our industry we're very substantial but in the context of financial service is not all that substantial. We stripped down many of the unused [indiscernible] and we added it to rate and simplified the product and simplified the administration of the product, and it turns out consumers prefer more to less. That has allowed us, along with capital and good asset availability, to move from a new entrant to the market to the largest-ever year of annuity sales in 2023 and a leading market position. I think we will continue to see modest changes around the traditional product in terms of custom indices.

And because the product, as you know, is not a straightforward you get a set rate, you actually get a percentage of a market's index performance, subject to a floor; and investors like that mix of upside and downside. The holy grail of this business, in my opinion, is both simplification and a much simpler promise of guaranteed lifetime income. Currently firms taking one significant risk. That's investment risk. When you move to guaranteed lifetime income, you're taking both investment risk and longevity risk. We have elected, to date, not to take substantial amounts of longevity risk in our portfolio, but like any marketplace, there is the opportunity to work with market participants who are on the other side of the longevity bet to hedge out that risk. Right now the costs of hedging that out would not allow for the distribution of a product that neutralized longevity risk in a commercial sale, but in a fiduciary sale, one is -- that is not through a channel that is commission payable -- one could, in fact, offer guaranteed lifetime income and halve the costs of a longevity hedge borne by commission. I think you will see a number of firms in our industry trial that this year.

I think if we as an industry are successful in doing that, I think, we will open a different market and a market that is potentially very large and very attractive that provides long-term capital but leaves us as an industry participant focused on the risk we want to take, which is investment risk, rather than being in a longevity risk business.

The other is we think of this mostly in a U.S. context. Europe, I believe, is going to step back and evaluate how they have focused on this industry. There's been a 40% drop in the availability of guaranteed income in European markets, primarily linked toward regulatory change. This problem is also in Australia, the most successful retirement market in the world in terms of superannuation. They've spent a lot of time thinking about accumulation but very little time thinking about decumulation. If you're interested, there's a treasury paper that's out talking about this. This is in Hong Kong. This is elsewhere in the world, so the ability to take what we've done in the U.S. and adjust for the local flavor and local regulation is one significant growth area. Growth in indices and the custom indices is another area. And finally, really cracking the code on guaranteed lifetime income, which is in its very early days, is a further potential growth area.

