Mario Harik
XPO, Inc. (XPO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, thanks, Scott. First, starting with the first quarter outlook. We typically give tonnage, yield and what OR would look like. Starting with tonnage, following the gains we had in the fourth quarter, we do expect to outperform seasonality in Q1. Typically, normal seasonality for us is, call it, flattish tonnage sequentially from Q4 to Q1, and we expect to do better than that. So we expect Q1 tonnage should be up low single-digits, somewhat in the same ZIP code as where we were in the fourth quarter on a year-on-year basis.

Now, when you look at January tonnage specifically, it did do better as Ali mentioned earlier, compared to seasonality, when you roll forward December into January. And we had a strong end of the month as well, despite the weather earlier in the month. On the yield front, we expect a strong performance for yield across the board this year. We do expect yield to be up on a year-on-year basis in the first quarter somewhere in the same ZIP code as we were in the fourth quarter year-on-year. And ultimately from an O/R standpoint, usually typical seasonality, for Q4 to Q1, we see OR deteriorate about 40 basis points, and we expect to do better than that. Now, how much better will depend on how the rest of the quarter plays out. Usually, in Q1 as you know, March is the big month of the quarter. But that implies roughly 300 basis points of OR improvement year-on-year. For the full year 2024, we also expect a strong year for us in terms of OR improvement. Given all the things we're doing in yield, tonnage, cost efficiency improvement and service improvement, we expect OR to be up in the 150 to 250 basis points range for the full year. And there's a path for us to do better than the top end of the range depending on how the year plays out.

Now, taking a step back on your question on the [acquired] service centers and how they impact yield. So we see a big cost benefit first, and that cost benefit comes from higher efficiency, and having bigger break bulks that lead to cost savings and linehaul. Having service centers closer to the customer leads to lower P&D cost and also lowering dock-handling costs associated with that. Now, the way they help yield is because larger service centers help improve your service product and service product can drive yield. But also, we mentioned premium services. And when you think about premium services in some markets like Las Vegas, we're tapped on capacity. And by having now the largest service center in the biggest market, we're going to be able to launch new offerings like trade shows as an example and this comes also at a higher yield and higher margin as well.

Thanks, Ken. Starting with the ramp of the service centers, in terms of getting them up and running, we do expect to get them up and running in – the first dozen or so service centers over the next three to six months, the next dozen over the next six to 12 months and then the remaining four or five will go live next year, call it 12 to 18 months.

Now we don't anticipate an OR drag from them that would be material to our numbers. And the reason why because the majority of the service centers are in markets where we already operate. So if you think about it, there is one case where we move our team, our existing team, from a smaller service center to a larger service center. The carrying cost of real estate is fairly low on a per door basis, but we get the immediate benefit of cost efficiencies and cost savings associated with having a larger facility to operate from.

In markets where we are adding a service center and keeping the existing one, in that particular case, we split the team between the two service centers based on volume and we only step up if there is an inflection in volume and we have incremental volumes. So we don't anticipate the service centers to have a drag on OR this year. We do expect them to be accretive for EBITDA. We do expect a drag on EPS, driven by the incremental debt. And we expect them to be accretive on all these KPIs in 2025 and beyond.

In terms of the long-term targets, we've always said 600 basis points -- I mean at least 600 basis points. And there's nothing magical about 600 basis points, there's nothing magical about 2027. With all the momentum that we have here and with all – with the new service centers, the pricing, the service improvements, we do expect to outperform and I would hold us to get to the 70s and well into the 70s over time from an OR perspective.

Thank you.

I'll talk on the initiatives. And Chris the way we look at it, I our plan involves substantial yield improvement. It does involve continuing our great service momentum or service product improvement momentum.

Tonnage improvement -- we do see tonnage going up for the full year but we do expect it to be up, call it in the same zip code, of where we were in the fourth quarter, so low single-digit because our goal is to drive more yield than it is to drive volume.

Similarly, our goal is to drive cost efficiencies as you mentioned. So, I'll give a quick update on the initiatives. Part of our plan is to in-source more third-party linehaul miles, because that comes both at a cost benefit but it also comes as a service benefit. When we go from using a third-party carrier with a 53-foot trailer versus having two 28-feet pups, which gives us more space, gives us safe stack in the trailers where we can separate the freight physically, and our drivers show up on time 100% of the time, we can continue to improve that service product.

Now, that will come with cost savings here in 2024, but the longer term cost savings also come when you think of an inflection in truckload rates at some point, that's going to be obviously material savings for us from what we would be spending internally on a per mile basis versus what we're spending for third-party carriers.

So, our expectation is to continue to -- we insource 290 basis points here in the fourth quarter year-on-year. We are sub-20% at this point, we're at 19-and-change. And we're going to drive that in the first phase down to the low teens and beyond that as we ramp up those teams as well.

Thanks Chris.

When you look at the local account strategy, Fadi, it is a segment that we are planning on growing over the years to come here. Now, if you look back at 2023, we were run-rating at roughly 20% of our volume and revenue generated from that channel.

Now, what we have done through the course of the year is that we increased the size of our local accounts. We hired more than 20% local sellers through the course of 2023. And the goal here through 2024 is to add roughly another 10%. So, all-in, to be 30% higher on the overall salesforce size that is selling to that channel.

Now, as you can imagine whenever we onboard new people, it does take a ramp, usually about six months for them to be fully productive, and fully up and running. Now, if you look at the full year, we did improve our local accounts -- on a higher run rate than the rest of our book. Here in the fourth quarter, we grew our local shipments in that channel by 12% on a year-on-year basis. And we do expect to continue to see those really strong gains in that channel, since we onboarded 20% more sellers. Now in terms of the innings, I would say, we're still in the early innings in terms of results, but we are very well underway in terms of having the team, and having them see a couple of quarters of ramp here to be pretty productive in 2024 and beyond.

Thank you, Fadi.

Stephanie, this is Mario. I'll take that. So, in 2023 and 2022, we used to compensate predominantly our field based on EBITDA growth and EBITDA performance. But we have added a good portion of the comp plan to be more focused on service quality. So as service centers and group service quality and on-time service, they effectively -- they have a good chunk of their incentive comp based on that.

Now in 2024, will be the first year where we are switching from compensating our field from EBITDA and EBITDA growth, and have it be focused on OR improvement. So it's now focused on how can we expand our margins over time. Because as you know we want to incentivize effectively driving that better service product, that leads to higher yield, while managing costs effectively, which would lead to OR expansion at the service center level and ultimately at the network level as well.

Thanks, Tom. I'll start with the network and the capacity side and turn it over to Kyle for D&A. When you look at our network today, before the 28 service center acquisition, we were run-rating, call it, in the mid-to-high teens in terms of excess capacity in the current environment. And if we roll forward, we are adding 28 service centers: out of these roughly half of them would be additive and the other half would be ones where we are relocating from a smaller service center to a larger service center. And we roughly acquired about 3,000 doors, and we would be adding a net, after we're all said and done with the integration, a net 2,000 doors, which is call it a 10%, 15% expansion in capacity. So once we get these service centers online, we will be in the 25% to 30% excess capacity in our network. And that's a great place to be as an LTL network, especially in a soft freight market. So this way whenever there's a freight market recovery and you see higher demand, our industry has been capacity constrained. Real estate comes with a very low carrying cost and this would enable us to flex up whenever that demand comes back. So this is how we look at currently where we are and as we open up those service centers where we'll be adding from a capacity perspective.

And on the European sale, Bruce, our long-term plan remains to be a pure-play North American LTL carrier, and selling the European business is one of our strategic priorities. But we're going to be patient. Our goal is to maximize the return we get on that business. It is a business that has a scarcity value to it. We're either number one, two or three in less-than-truckload, truckload, asset-light brokerage in many geographies in Western Europe, think UK, France, Spain, Portugal. And it's not a matter of if, but a matter of when. And meanwhile if you take a step back, the business is performing well. Despite a soft economy in Europe with outperforming our peers, our revenue was up in the quarter. We've improved volume every month of the quarter and further improved in the month of January, and credit to the team's strong execution. So again, if you take a step back, it's a matter of time and at some point we'll get there.

So when you take a step back on these accessorials, they are predominantly what we call premium services. So these are services that our customers are asking for, that go beyond your typical “pick up a few skids of freight and get them delivered to a destination”. So examples are, as Kyle mentioned earlier, the retail store rollouts offering, where in that particular case, you can imagine if you have some sort of a holiday, or a new product launch, a customer needs us to ship many, many shipments -- it could be hundreds of shipments in a short time window -- and they need somebody to coordinate all of those offerings. And that leads, obviously, to a higher price and the customer is happier because they're getting a service that they need.

We do have a number of other offerings. Trade shows is a good example of that. Working with retailers on a “must arrive by date” type offering, and many others that we are launching through the course of the year here.

We do expect to get them launched -- they won't all be launched within a few quarters. Some of them will take a bit longer, like an expedited service, as an example. But as we launch these, we expect them to be accretive to yield over time. In terms of magnitude, roughly today, our accessorials as a percent of revenue is roughly around -- call it in the low double digits. And our goal is to grow that to the mid-teens as we launch these programs over the years to come.

We had double-digit pricing up here in the fourth quarter, and we do expect a very strong first half of the year as well. I mean, this is an environment. If you look at our industry, it's been historically capacity constrained. If you go back before Yellow ceased operations, we didn't have enough capacity versus the demand that was out there. We are currently in a sluggish freight environment where demand is down, roughly, call it double-digit low teens, and this is when that capacity went away from the market.

So whenever there is any sort – even with some of that capacity coming back into LTL, whenever there's any form of inflection in demand, there wouldn't be enough doors and service centers in our industry. So you would see pricing accelerate accordingly. For us specifically, we also have all the company-specific initiatives we're driving, between driving better service, which comes at a premium, between driving premium services, which has been driving expansion of our local channels. All of these would be accretive to yield as well. So double-digit pricing is not out of the question.

Thanks, Bascome. So first, starting with the sales compensation. So it depends on what type of seller you are in the organization. We changed the comp plan accordingly. So if you're in the local channel, the goal is to grow your book as opposed to, for example, if you're in different types of accounts, you're going to have to focus on profitability more. But generally, the theme is that, if you look at a service center, they are compensated based on the OR improvement for that specific service center. If you're a local account executive, you're incentivized to grow your book, and a component of your compensation is driven by operating ratio as well. If you're handling larger accounts, then the lion's share of your compensation is around OR and profit improvement as well, associated with that. So this is how typically sales are compensated but it is more driven by your book of business, as opposed to your region or the network as a whole.

Now in terms of senior exec compensation, that's typically part of our proxy. But we incentivize our senior executives based on a combination of OR growth, EBITDA growth and the TSR – so shareholder value creation as well.

The framework would be very similar to what we had in the past.

When we think about the service centers in the near-term, ahead of any type of macro infection whenever it comes, there is a big benefit we're going to get from cost savings as I mentioned earlier on by having larger facilities. If you think about what we bought from the Yellow Network, we bought some of the largest service centers. You look at a site like Carlisle, you can't get any more than 120 acres of land right off I-76 and I-81, where we have a 300-door service center now in that market.

Same thing with Nashville. We got a 40, 50-acre facility west of Nashville with more than 200 doors in it. So when you think about those larger facilities that enable you to run more efficiently your linehaul, your P&D, your dock operations, that's going to lead to cost savings as soon as we start moving into them.

The other benefit is in some markets, when you look at a market like Brooklyn, New York or Columbus or Indianapolis or Las Vegas, we're tapped out on capacity today. So we don't have enough doors in those markets. And by having this incremental capacity, we already have customers that are ready to go where we can onboard them as we open up those service centers. And we have two small service centers. One is in Eau Claire Wisconsin, one is Nogales, Arizona, where we – these are net adds or new markets. But these are small service centers, where we already have demand lined up based on existing customer relationships we have as well.

When we think about the rollout timing, we prioritize the service centers in those markets where we are capacity constrained today. So in a softer freight environment, where we see that we don't have enough capacity. And the second priority is based on cost efficiency, so the service centers that will create the most amount of cost efficiency. And when we think about the opening schedule, I'll call it, over the next 3 months to 18 months, it will be -- we're going to drive through it regardless of what the freight markets are doing. This would be a reasonable time frame in terms of bringing those terminals up to our standards and doing the re-branding and these kind of things to get them up and running. And then we -- for us -- I mentioned, this earlier on, if you think about the headcount, there's no need for us to hire people ahead of volume. So what we do is that we either relocate the existing team into a larger facility, or we add a facility to an existing market where we split a team from an existing facility into two different service centers, so there's no incremental cost associated with that.

If we do see an inflection in volume, where the markets are getting better, then we staff up to be able to support that volume. And importantly, Jordan, if you look at our year in 2023, we were able to improve efficiency every single quarter of the year. So we have the great ability, between operational discipline that Dave and the team are bringing to the table, supported by our proprietary technology, to be able to run our network very efficiently from a labor standpoint.

I mean, whenever you open up those sites, you do have a small headwind in cost, but that for us would be a very short lived. I mean, you're talking 30 to 90 days of cost headwind as you move into a larger facility. And predominantly, it comes from the carrying cost of the incremental doors. But Brandon, keep in mind that the cost of a door in our P&L is sub 5% as a percent of total. So it's a small incremental cost associated with that. But when you think about the immediate efficiency you gain in pickup and delivery and linehaul in all of those pieces, this is where we see that this drag is short-lived. It doesn't have a meaningful impact on the network as a whole.

And to give you an example over the last couple of years here, we've opened up a dozen service centers and each one of them was accretive within 30 to 60 days. Each one of them is exceeding our return hurdles as well. So we feel very good about our ability to get those on-boarded with very minimal drag. And that's the reason why, we don't expect any drag from an OR perspective from the service centers. And finally, I'd say, also with having Dave on the team, he has an incredible amount of experience in terms of adding capacity to a network and making sure it's accretive pretty quickly.

Thank you.

It does take time. I mean it's not like a switch where as you improve your service product, your customers will give you that premium immediately. But we're seeing -- we already have been seeing it play out in the course of 2023, when you look at the improvement we've seen in yield, quarter after quarter, and having those very strong contract renewals.

So, if you go back two years ago, we had a damage claims ratio of 1.2%. We're down to 0.3%, which is a company record. But our goal continues to keep on improving that.

We're a customer-loving organization. We want to take care of our customers, pick up the freight on time, deliver it on time, deliver damage-free every single time. And if you think about it from that perspective, that over time earns you a premium. So, when we think of that seven to eight-point differential it's going to take us a number of years to claw through it. But that's why when we look forward, we think our ability to get this above market pricing is going to be driven by this continued improvement and continued focus on taking care of our customers.

Thanks Brian. So, I'll start first with the return on the service centers. And we expect that to be in the -- on the long run to be in the 30% to 40% range. And I'll turn it over to Kyle shortly here to discuss the details of that. Now when you think about the customer demand environment, it is a fluid environment. It is tough to call what the macro is going to do through the balance of the year. From one perspective, you see the rates where they are from a Fed [ph] perspective. We're seeing different mixed signals.

Now we do survey our customers on a regular basis. And for the first half of the year roughly two-thirds of the customers are expecting either flat or slightly improving demand. So there is a bit more optimism in the first half than what we've seen in the back half of last year. But there's even more optimism for the back half where the majority of the customers did say that they expect a pickup in demand in the back half of 2024.

So we're cautiously optimistic, but it's tough to call the macro at this point. Now when you look at it more near term, you look at -- we do watch the ISM manufacturing index given two-thirds of our customers are industrial companies. And when you look through the course here of the fourth quarter, the trough was in October and November, we saw it get better in December and here in January, it even further improved -- the ISM posted 49 -and-change, which is very close to 50, which is typically your point where you start seeing an inflationary environment. So again, we're seeing demand hold. We're seeing demand slightly improve and with more optimism towards the back half of the year.

Thank you operator, and thanks all for joining our call today. As you can see from our results, our plan is working, and our service improvements are delivering revenue growth, margin expansion, and earnings growth. Soon we're going to start integrating to acquired service centers into our network, which is now more productive and more cost efficient. We have a lot of strong momentum here as we start 2024, and we look forward to updating you on the next quarter. Operator, you can now end the call. Thank you.