Mark Kowlzan
Packaging Corporation of America (PKG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Mark. Next question.

Yes. Mike, you know, obviously you don’t know what the future is going to hold. But we’ve got a lot of optionality in what we’re doing. All of the capital spending that we continue to do in the box plants, as an example, continues to create incredible opportunity to grow with our customers. Just this year alone, for 2024, we planned over 30 strategic projects at 26 of our box plants. And this is major converting equipment installations, corrugators, corrugator rebuilds and upgrades of significant magnitude.

This past year it was the same situation. Number of evolves, rotary die cutters, corrugators, new plant in Pennsylvania, the start of a new plant out in Salt Lake City. And so we will continue to build in the internal organic capability to grow with the marketplace. Mills have the runway to continue providing that over the next few years. And then you have to assume, as we have always done, we can grow the containerboard supply as we need to, whether it’s adding capacity in an existing mill or if we had to go out and buy a mill or build a mill. There’s a lot of optionality in the future that we have the ability to proceed with.

But that’s never been an issue for us. And I don’t expect it to be an issue in the future. But right now, the key is that we have tremendous capability within the converting side of the packaging unit and the mill system to provide the containerboard to grow for the next number of years. So I’m very, very encouraged by where we are.

Thanks, Mike. Next question.

Next question please.

Morning, Gabe.

Thank you. Next question please.

Good morning, Anthony.

Yes, I mean we’re probably spending close to $250 million just in the box plants alone this year. And that’s all of the 30 strategic projects we’re working on the box plants and building the new plant out in Salt Lake City and finishing that up. And then the rest will be just in the smaller one-off projects in the mills. And then obviously, we’ve got the maintenance-type capital that goes on. But the bulk of its – quite frankly, the bulk of its in the box plants. And then finish up the Jackson conversion.

The machine certainly ought to be able to add approximately 175,000 to 200,000 more incremental tons a year when we’re done with this phase of work. I believe the number for 2023 is production of that machine was somewhere around 537,000 tons of production for 2023. So if you add 200,000 more tons that you’re up in that 700,000 tons capability. But again, it all depends on our demand. And so we’re going to run to demand, as we always have, but that’s the necessity of being able to build this runway that our customers can depend on and they know they can grow with us and we can supply them the product and the value they need. And so the Jackson machine is going to have that capability to ramp up and ramp down, and provide all the grades we need at an incredibly attractive cost position.

Okay. Next question please.

One good example of that, and we don’t talk about a lot, our transportation capability. Over the last decade, we’ve built an incredibly strong transportation logistics group within the company, and it’s nationwide now. We’ve got a very large fleet of tractors and trailers running the country, taking care of not only containerboard, but a lot of our packaging to the customer. And so that capability of having our own trucking in-house has provided enormous flexibility in cost management on the transportation side of the equation. So that’s just one example of how we go about looking at our business and then executing.

I’ll let you know when it happens. That’s the beauty of having that firepower. We can not only continue to look at share buyback and dividends. But if an opportunity comes up on a one-off on the packaging side to buy an existing business, we can easily move into that. If something on the mill side came up that we found attractive, we can move into that and not worry about how we finance it or how it affects the balance sheet.

And so the other thing I want to remind everybody, back when we called out the 2023s capital, and we – the 2022 capital up over $800 million. And we reminded everybody that the 2022 capital would be going down into a much more manageable level, much more reasonable level in that $400 million range. Just keep in mind, we did that, and we accomplished an incredible amount of high-return projects and impact projects that benefit our customers and our shareholders alike. But also this year, we continued that trend. The $400 million range of high-return, high-impact projects affords us again an incredible opportunity with the balance sheet because all that operating cash that we’re generating goes into free cash and can be deployed appropriately. And so we’re in a very good place.

Over the last 10 years, we’ve done all the heavy lifting to get the mills and the box plants in very, very efficient condition. And so now it’s much more manageable about how we go about with these projects. And so with the fact that we have the internal capability with the engineering and technology organization to manage the bulk of all this work. We’re in a much better position than we’ve ever been and we’ll continue that. But again, all optionality is open for us on how we look at the world.

Thank you. Next question?

Okay. Thank you, Mark. Any other questions, please?

Thank you. Any other questions, Jamie?

Yes. We talked about this for the last couple of years and that when we were done with all of this work because the work that’s going on that will start next month and then finish up. It’s about a 58-day outage at the mill, but it involves more than just the paper machine. Once again, in and of itself is a lot of work with dryer cans real press section rebuild, but it’s also power plant work. We’re going to be reconfiguring a lot of the power plant steam flows, steam pressures will be – ultimately, we’ll be producing more megawatts off the power plant in the back end of the mill and providing more high pressure, higher efficient steam into the paper machine. And so net-net, the mill when it’s done, will have the capability to produce linerboard and be at or amongst our lowest cost in the system.

So if you think about Valdosta, DeRidder and Counce, Jackson should be as good or better, quite frankly, than Counce and DeRidder. And probably get Valdosta run for its money. And so the huge opportunity is in the, in the cost savings as we go forward, that will flow through in the future. Bob, do you want to add to that?

Thank you. Any other questions, please?

Thank you. Any other follow-up questions, Jamie?

All right. Why don’t we go ahead and conclude this. If there are no questions, I’d like to thank everybody for joining us on the call, and we look forward to talking with you in April. Thank you. Everybody, have a good day.