Mark LaVigne
Energizer Holdings, Inc. (ENR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Bill. There's a lot in there. Let me -- I'll kick it off kind of how we built '24 from a framework perspective, and then John can maybe give you some details just on how we're framing up the year. It really starts with how we approach the plan for the year, which is staying consistent to the strategic priorities we had in '23. We want to continue to improve margin, which gets to a little bit of your promotion question, but we want to improve margin. Our outlook provides 100 basis points improvement over the course of fiscal '24. We want to continue to generate free cash flow for the second year in a row, consistent with our historical levels, and we want to continue to pay down debt, and our plan is to be below five times at the end of fiscal '24.

So from a strategic priorities standpoint, our outlook achieves all of those objectives, but then when you take a step back to your point and look at consumers generally and then our categories, so if you look at consumers generally, even beyond our categories, certainly they're feeling pressure. There's some mixed data points out there. I think it's mixed because consumers are very engaged in categories, but they're rotating around a lot of ever-shifting priorities for them, and that results in delayed purchasing. It can result in some trade-down, either in terms of from premium to value or even pack size, and then some brand-switching activities.

All of that is based on temporary priorities and needs that consumers are experiencing in a relatively pressured environment for them, but then when you delve deeper into our categories, our categories are in solid shape. Batteries have been on a process of coming down from normalized levels from the pandemic, the spike in demand we saw during the pandemic. We're also seeing the impact of pricing and elasticity. We have achieved sort of volume stability over the last couple of quarters, which has been a nice plateau to see in the volume trend.

Auto care, roughly the same, maybe a little bit more discretionary than batteries. So when you combine our strategic priorities that we want to achieve from our business with stable category trends and then a cautious consumer, it comes down to pricing and promotion, to your question and pricing and promotion discipline is critical to what we want to do. It was critical for us restoring gross margins. It will be critical for us to continue to preserve gross margins and then from a promotional side, I think the questions that we constantly push is we are promoting to bridge consumers to a higher price point and keeping them engaged with our brand.

We're not promoting to prime them for sort of permanently lower prices and so we're going to continue to lean in to the former, not the latter and that's how we built the '24 plan to make sure that we can continue to achieve the results that we that we laid out today. John, do you want to go through the details of '24?

I think it's a general store traffic trend in non-track channels, depending upon the information that you may get. So that's DIY and online you are seeing growth. So I would think about this way, brick and mortar, traditional brick and mortar down a little bit on volume, online is up. Non-track, including home center is down.

Thanks, Lauren. On the last point, and Bill asked that as well, I think on the promotional levels, we would not see a situation where we would exceed promotional levels from 2019. On your question on value brands, the short answer is yes. We have the full portfolio. We have several value brands that can fill a need, particularly in times that consumers are experiencing now.

A little bit easier to do that online because it's a little bit easier to cut in than it is in a brick and mortar environment, but it is something we're leveraging. We're having some encouraging discussions with retailers on that front and that's one that we'll continue to leverage as long as the macro environment is what it is today. Anything I missed on that one, Lauren?

I think on that one, Lauren, let me take a step back on what we've experienced the last couple of years as an organization. The first thing you dealt with was a pandemic that tested your ability to manage supply chain disruptions, which required sort of greater insights, proactive management of bottlenecks, and just greater resiliency. We not only at the time made the decision to solve the issues of the day, but we invested to improve sort of that operational excellence on a go-forward basis and really enhance the visibility we had across our supply chain. There's been tremendous progress there.

Then we did on auto care in terms of inflation, we got hit, particularly in auto care, with higher inflation, which required pricing. We've launched project momentum to drive sort of cost out of our supply chain. You've seen some stabilization on some of the inflation rates, and we've really leaned into our pricing and revenue management teams, which as we sit here today, our visibility across our network is dramatically better than it was pre-pandemic.

Our fill rates are at or above targeted levels. Our margins are steadily improving. We've made tremendous progress in auto care, up nearly 500 basis points as we talked about in the prepared remarks. So beyond the financial results from a supply chain margin management standpoint is the organizational muscle we've built to be able to work through these issues in more real-time basis than we have.

In terms of Auto Care, we've seen great foundational macro trends with the three main factors that drive volume demand in that category and we've really retrenched and refocused on margin levels, which we expect to continue to improve this year. The first target is to get back to where that business was pre-pandemic, and then from there continue to improve the margins, but we are always going to push to improve margins and grow that business going forward.

Yeah. So on the international distribution, again, our priority last year and this year is restore margins to our business, which requires pushing pricing. In some international markets, we were aggressive on our pricing and that caused some lost distribution. It wasn't overly promotional. It was simply just a pricing discussion where we were very disciplined and that caused some distribution losses.

We still believe that's absolutely the right approach to take. We would do exactly what we did from a pricing standpoint if we had to do it all over again because we needed to restore our margins, which allow us to invest back in the business and then ultimately regain that distribution through healthy category management, which we're always focused on and then the second question, Nik?

On holiday. Okay. On holiday, right now, we have great support from our retailers going into holiday. We're planning for success. I think there's going to be some caution both from us and from retailers in terms of how does the early holiday season play out? How does consumption look and that's going to drive replenishment discussions as you get further into holidays.

So I would say there was some caution as we planned for Q1 and we've heard a little bit of caution from retailers as they head into holiday because they want to see how it plays out, but that will play itself out as you get closer towards Christmas.

Start from a digital standpoint and then John can break down some of the sales differentials. I would say as you're seeing consumers shift online, there's a natural share shift from us from brick and mortar from online. We don't have as high of a share in online as we do in some of our brick and mortar retailers. So that's causing some of the shifting dynamics. I would say right now you're seeing promotional levels that are a little bit higher than last year, but they're lower than what we had seen in 2019.

I think you'll continue to see promotional levels be around those levels, and to the earlier questions, I don't think you'll see it exceed 2019. I think the importance for promotion right now is bridging consumers to those higher price points and continue to sort of train them up the value scale as you work your way through what is a tougher macro environment for them and John, on the breakdown.

Yeah, so volume should be relatively steady, we think, for the category over the rest of the year. We do expect our own performance to still be probably challenged in the second quarter even, but really, as you get into the third and fourth quarters, we think we should see some improvement from there on the top line.

No, well, what we said was that pricing overall, I don't think that there's any broad-based price increases that we would talk about. There's no incremental pricing coming through. And we've kind of lapped all of it heading into '24. So we do think that we'll reinvest some of our margin improvement back into pricing and promotional activity. And so I kind of called out on the gross margin side, you heard that there's probably a little over 100 basis points of negative pricing drag for the year.

Fiscal '24 is $55 million to $65 million of savings. What drove the upside, we went into this a little bit in the last quarter's call where we talked about adding a third year allowed us to undertake some projects from an operational network standpoint that were a little bit constrained from a two-year standpoint, but that yielded greater savings. So it's just a few more projects that we're able to complete in a three-year time period, and we've also been able to make some organizational changes from digital transformation, which is driving some of the savings in SG&A, but all in a three-year program, $130 million to $150 million total.

'24 feels a bit like a reset year for a lot of categories in terms of just getting back to foundational elements of category management. I would say the focus for our organization is continue to invest in the brands, continue to invest in products, both on batteries and auto care, and allow those investments to then drive opportunities for pricing going forward.

Batteries has not been kind of a year-over-year price increase type approach over the years. It's always been every couple of years there have been price increases. I would expect that to continue, but I do think we have to continue to rebase ourselves at the current level. I think consumers have to find the price points. We have to continue to normalize promotional activity and then from there you invest in brands, you invest in innovation, and that's going to drive pricing discussions going forward.

Rob, let me start with the first point on the holiday, just so we're clear. We had holiday shipments for this holiday that moved into Q4 of '23, and that's about half of the headwind that we're seeing going into Q1. So it's really the sequential quarters, not year-over-year on the holiday side.

I think your second question a little bit was about inventories at retail. I think we've sold in ahead of the holidays, and I would say that the inventories that we're seeing are relatively in line. We need to see how the sell-through goes through over the next month, really, but we feel like we're in pretty good shape there.

I would put home automation in line with healthcare automation and the devices that come from both of those as sort of 1A and 1B in terms of where those devices should come from.

It's broadly across the online market.

There is not. It's consistent year-over-year, what we're seeing in the U.S. In international markets, we talked about some distribution losses, and that obviously would impact holiday, but in the U.S., holiday sets are largely consistent with last year.

Private label overall globally is up about 0.7 share points. You're seeing it higher than that in the U.S., but it's isolated to certain retailers as well as online, as you've dealt with some of that channel shifting that's going on there. In international markets on balance, it's going down. It's going down in Europe. It's increasing a little bit in APAC, but overall, it's going down. So I would say private label is within the manageable historical range of what you've seen from category penetration over the years.

Yeah, I think as we analyze promotion, we want to make sure that you don't sort of solve a temporary problem with a permanent solution and I would say you continue to invest behind your brands. You continue to promote. We've got value brands we can offer, but ultimately, consumers will come through this environment into a healthier environment. And we want to make sure that we continue to keep them at the premium end of the category because that's the healthier margin dynamic for us and that's going to be continuous. It's how do we bridge the gap both with our value brands, our promotional strategies to continue to work our way through this macro environment that consumers are experiencing.

Thanks, everyone, for joining the call and the ongoing interest in Energizer. I hope everyone has a great rest of the day.