Mark Wang
Hilton Grand Vacations Inc. (HGV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, so, Brandt, I'd say we feel really good about the business right now. I think VPG finished the year still up 11% over '19, and we talked about the system and Maui issues, so that obviously had an impact there. But just taking a step back, our goal and when we put out that soft guidance probably a couple of years ago was really to highlight that we've generated a sustainable upside to the prior peak based on the investments we've made.

So, I did make a comment in my prepared remarks around the consumer. And on the margin, we do see some more hesitancy, particularly with the new buyers. And it's something that we actually started seeing in the third quarter, the second half of the third quarter, and it's persisted through the fourth quarter and into early this year. So, look, at the end of the day, I think from an execution standpoint, there's some areas for us to improve in, but clearly we are seeing a little bit more hesitancy from a buyer standpoint. Again, more on the new buyer side than on the owner side.

Yes, David, just go up on that real quick on Maui. So our expected recovery really won't happen until we're able to build back our sales teams and Maui's kind of a tale of two different stories. The Southside and Maui Bay and Villa's continues to operate as normal. Connolly Beach, where we have the bulk of our units, we have over 400 units up there on the West side, that was near the epicenter of the worst damage and so we committed to our team members, we had most 100 team members who lost their homes up there. And so, we committed to keep a roof over their head and happy to say that 60 have found permanent housing, we still have 40 that we're housing today, but what happened is we lost a lot of our sales teams who left to other islands or to other locations, a lot of them transferring within our company and it's going to take a while to get them built back up.

So this Maui impact is something that's going to continue throughout the rest of this year. It will continue -- it'll get better as we move through the year but there will be an impact that does much more lasting than the system outage which Dan alluded to was really just around a week.

Sure.

Yes, look, when you look at it, it's really pretty much related to the U.S. mainland is where we're seeing more of the impact and it's more again with the new buyers. Our owners are -- we're in really good shape with our owner base, we've got a great base of owners and when you combine now the Bluegreen owners, we've got a strong base of recurring revenue that's coming through that part of the business. We've seen a little bit of pullback that's still above our historical levels. We're seeing most of it is around our new buyers. And I have to say, I talked about it, I just mentioned that there was, I think some execution, better execution opportunities on our side, but Dan mentioned the macro, we've got the inflationary pressures out there and rates that have moved and essentially, that's put some pressure on people's ability to deal with their essential payments.

But the other side of it is we grew our tour flow last year, our new buyer tour flow by 22%. And that put a lot of pressure on our new agents, right? That's a lot to digest in a short period of time. And so, what we did is we actually, we started dialing back on a few of our lower producing channels, starting in the middle of the year, and hence we reduced the amount of new buyers coming through the system as the year went on. Our expectations is how we dial some of those back up. We're still seeing a bit of softness there, but long-term, we still believe, and as Dan alluded to earlier, we're going to grow our contract sales approximately 6% to 7%. We've probably weighted heavier toward VPG than it will be to tour flow this year. And a lot of that is due that we're lapping softer comps or so.

Yes, no, we've got great visibility, and that's one of the benefits of our model of having this big pipeline. Of course, on the owner's side, arrivals on the books creates a lot of certainty in our expectations. What we see right now is what our owners are above the levels we saw last year. The new buyer pipeline is circled over half a million, then you add Bluegreen into it, and they bring another 160,000 packages. But as I mentioned, we dialed the back activations, the back half of last year, and that'll have a knock-on effect at the early part of this year, because as you wrap some of that down, it takes a while to wrap that up, so the cadence of tours will wrap up through the back half of the year, so it's definitely more back half-weighted than front half-weighted.

Thanks

Yes, so, look, I think when you look at our business today, the U.S. mainland is basically fully recovered from '19 from new buyers and we're well over our number and for owners on the Mainland. Now, in Hawaii, we have had a pretty good recovery of our owners coming back. In fact, I've used, and I've said this data point a number of times, our owners who are very loyal to the brand, who've made that commitment to buying in the brand and buying in the Hawaii have come back really strong, and so we're basically back to the historical levels we had in '19.

Where we're trailing off is we're really still trailed off on the new buyers coming back to Hawaii, and we're still about 25% to 27% down there. Now, that's better than the market. When you look at the market, the recovery for the Japanese coming back to Hawaii is around 50% of the '19 level, and when you look at our new buyer traffic in Japan, it's still down about 25% and that's because we source a lot of tours from the international airports in Japan and while the Japanese are traveling, they're traveling mainly domestic right now.

So, look, we're optimistic that the Japan business will be a strong business for us over the long term. Our expectations, though, is that we won't get back to full recovery until you get the Japanese back into Hawaii, and this is less a pandemic issue. I think that is way past this now. It's more about the weakness of the Yen, and I think right now there's just better options for them to travel elsewhere, but they'll be back and our expectations is probably, we're probably looking more into the latter part of '25, '26, than we are any time this year or early next year.

Yes, no, that makes sense. And actually it was a bigger percentage pre-the two M&A deals we did. So today, when you look at Hawaii, you look at Hawaii and Japan in total, it's still, it's right around 20% or just under 20%, but the Japanese part of that is about 10% of that. So the Japan part of it itself is about a 10% part of our business now. So it has come down maturely.

Thanks

All right, well, thank you everyone for joining us today. Before I wrap up, I'd like to thank all of our team members for the hard work this year and their continued service and dedication to our owners and guests. When you think about what we've accomplished in the last 30 months, acquiring two new companies and setting the business at a whole new level with the most offerings, experiences, and partners in the industry, I'm really proud of what we've achieved together.

I'd also like to offer a special welcome to our new Bluegreen team members. Welcome to the HGV family. I'm really optimistic about the future of HGV and look forward to speaking with you again next time. Thank you.
