Mark Douglas
FMC Corporation (FMC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, sure. I mean, listen, we do that deliberately because there are two very different businesses, obviously. And we've discussed this multiple times in the past. Our branded business continues in a very strong fashion as we talked about in November, we're launching new products on a constant basis and especially the latest one which is Premier Star in Brazil which has done extremely well in its first quarter of launch. Those are the products that are really expanding the diamide franchise.

Our partners are doing exactly what we and the rest of the industry are doing which is drawing down their inventories. So they did this in '23 and their current forecast show further declines as they draw their inventories down. At some point, that will come to an end and we'll move forward. But '24 from our view of where our partner revenues are look very similar to what happened in '23 which is basically just drawing down inventories.

Yes. Listen, it's impossible for us to talk about what they're doing with their revenue growth targets or where they're growing. We don't have insight into that. All we do is provide them either formulations in some cases or more importantly, actual technical active ingredient. And don't forget, a lot of our partners use these products for seed treatment applications which is a very, very different market from us. So treat it as a separate market. We don't get involved in it. We provide the raw materials; that's how we think of it.

Yes, certainly, Kevin. I mean, first of all, the dynamic this year is going to be pretty much the reverse of last year, where we had very, very strong pricing as we went through the first half of 2023. Obviously, as we go through this year, we're going to start to lap those price increases, so the difference gets a little different. I would say, obviously, we've highlighted EMEA a highlight for us, it was in '23, continues to be that way in 2024. North America is looking good as well in terms of managing price I would say the place where we expect the most headwind is no surprise to anybody will be Latin America and that's mainly in Q1. We expect that to abate as we go through the year, mainly because of that lapping of price as I just talked about. So think of it as Latin America with really Brazil has been the main area there.

With regards to Q1, we talked about a pricing headwind. It is a small number in terms of percent. So I would suggest less than the 5% that you just mentioned. We already see that in Brazil. So that's part of what we have forecast for Q1.

Yes. Sure, Joel. Andrew, do you want to take that one?

Yes. Joel, listen, I mean, I think for us, as I said, '24 is a bit of a transition year. Yes, we did lower the full year of '24 but that's fundamentally on one thing. We finished '23 lower than we expected. It is as simple as that. The numbers just flow from there. We were not going to hold a number that we thought was unrealistic just because we said it in November. We don't think that's the right way to run this business. Now when you look at '25 and '26, particularly '25 Andrew just commented on something that's very important and I mentioned it, we had a lot of headwinds that are temporary right now that are impacting us in 2024. They will go away. First of all, the high-cost inventory. The biggest impact of that is Q1 gets less in Q2. And then as we go into the second half, it dissipates. We also have the benefit of the mix impact from all the new products we're selling. The $200 million of NPI is at above average margins for us. So that changes mix as we go through the year.

So you take those pieces and then you take the restructuring plan which is also now underway in building, we intend to have that at $150 million run rate by the end of '25. So you take those pieces they all build as we go through this year, that allows you to make that catch-up period as you go through '25 and '26. And then obviously, the market itself, market has been unbelievably depressed over the last 9 months and going into the first part of this year. That will not stay like that. The market will come back. It will grow at its normal low single-digit growth rates. Once we get into that period, we have a great tailwind going into '25. So I think we catch up. That's why we haven't changed it. We have a view. We know what we're going to be launching; that's an important view for us. So think of it as those elements will make up the '25, '26 period.

Yes, I'll take it at the high level, Vince and then Andrew, you can make a few comments. We have numerous manufacturing facilities that are built up of individual production lines or synthesis units. Those synthesis units are coming up and down constantly. I would say as we enter Q2, we start to see more of those lines coming back. We already have cases today where we're out of inventory. So we've been pushing inventory down dramatically over the last 6 to 7 months and you can see that in our inventory numbers. That will continue. You always have some dislocation between what sales is selling and what the demand forecast says. So we see that tension now. And that's a change for us. We haven't seen that in the last 6 to 7 months. So we're starting to see the signs of our inventory levels in certain key areas coming down to a point where we know we're going to have to fire up some of those units again. I expect that to happen in the Q2 period.

So Andrew, do you want to talk about what impact that has as we go forward?

Yes. Sure, Mike. We talk about this a lot because obviously it's a big driver of our growth and also from our profitability standpoint. I think what we've been doing over the last few years is really a mixture of what we call product extensions which you've seen in the diamides area. I mean, we keep talking about Premier star. We need to put that in context I'm not going to give you the exact number because obviously, we have a lot of competitors listening in on the call. But in Q4 alone, we had tens of millions of dollars of brand-new business. So that's extending the diamide franchise in key crops in Brazil like soy. So those are types of products that are really driving the growth.

When you look at the roughly $200 million of new growth in 2024. About $100 million of that is products that are launched within the year. Now $100 million in reference it's usually anywhere from $100 million to $150 million on an annual basis. That's what we've been tracking at. So our expectations for the brand new product launches are not out of line with what we've done historically despite how difficult the market place is. So we know we can sell those new technologies. We know growers are always looking for new alternatives to combat pests. It's split pretty much across all the regions, led by Asia and then Latin America and Europe and North America are all pretty much similar. So the good news there is it's in different geographies on different crops. So we're not banking on the growth of the new products by one big hit with one molecule. That's the good news. And that's how we like to play this.

The other one is really our new fungicide, fluindapyr. That is gaining traction. We launched in Brazil. We launched in Argentina. We expect that to grow considerably as we grow through this year. This is our first real entree into a market that's called Asia soybean rust in Brazil. It's a $2 billion market, give or take and we have very little revenue there today. So that's another example of us taking a brand-new product, driving it into a geography and market space.

Yes. Listen, channel inventories are high. We are carrying high channel inventories. We are not the only ones. Other people on earnings calls have highlighted India. You've had at least 3 years of bad monsoons as well as low pest pressure. So there is a lot of inventory that needs to be worked through that. We'll take all of '24 and probably into '25 to work that down, depending on what the weather patterns look like. If you look good, then we may get some acceleration. If not, it's going to take a while. So you're probably going to hear us talk about India pretty much every quarter as we go through this year and certainly into early next year. I doubt we'll be the only ones talking about that either.

Yes, Adam, let me just start by giving you an overview of how we think about that price volume mix around the world. And Andrew, then you can comment on the price cost element. In these environments, one thing we are determined not to do is go and chase volume. And you can see that in our margins. Our margins are roughly 22% as we finish the year. They're at industry level highs. You can't see that for every company out there. And the important thing is that we're managing price very carefully, not chasing volume where there is no volume and also managing the balance sheet. So you have to take all that into consideration about how you think about FMC's strategy on price. We do take price where we can and we've proven that in Europe and other parts of the world. And then there are other parts like Brazil, where it is a price-competitive market.

Now remember, when we talk about our price reductions in Brazil, roughly half of that is activities we put in place to help our customers with their high-priced inventory. So all that price is not necessarily a price drop for the list sheets that you see. So please keep that in mind. When you think about FMC, you look at the volume, you look at the price and look at the margin. That's how we're managing the company. And you know what, we think that will serve us well when we come through this period as we get into the second half of the year. And certainly, as we accelerate through 2025, having a base for margins that are based around a solid price and then when volume comes back, our products will grow into that volume space. We believe that's the best strategy to tackle this.

Andrew, do you want to comment on the cost price piece for the year?

Andrew, do you want to take it?

Yes. I mean, listen, it's a very valid question. You've got to remember that they're selling products still into the marketplace from their inventory. We're not replenishing their inventory because they're not buying it. It's exactly what we're doing with our suppliers and what our customers are doing to us. A big piece of that market is seed treatment. Do not underestimate how much volume of the diamides goes into treating seeds around the world. It's a large volume. They also operate in markets that we don't necessarily have access, whether it's on a geographic basis or a crop basis. So once again, this is a $70-plus billion market for pesticides that is highly fragmented. It is not unusual for us not to know where those products are going. However, what we do know is that when they see a utility for diamides, they're using FMC's technology and that's what's important to us. So we think about it in that way.

I think the other thing you've got to remember is we're talking about where the forecast currently sit. Forecast can change and frequently do. They did last year. The forecasts that the partners put in place in January is very different to what it looked like in September. We could well see a difference in their September forecast or their August forecast than what it is today. So we'll see. For us, the partners are very valuable. They've worked extremely well since we bought the assets way back in 2017 and they will continue to work well. They are just going through the same phenomena that we are.

Yes, absolutely. Plant health was down in 2023, mainly because of the segments that we're in. We have a big exposure to one particular segment in Brazil that was down. We had growth in other parts of the world. We see plant health coming back to its more normal growth rates in 2024. And those growth rates are high teens, low 20s. And with the biologicals component, somewhat higher than that. So you should expect to see the Plant Health business back to its normal cadence.

We're also doing what we said we would do in our Investor Day. We're investing in new business models for this business. And despite all the changes we're making, we have carved out the ability to create a new business model in Brazil for the plant health business. So we're going to be very interested in seeing how a purely dedicated plant health business starts to perform once it gets its breadth of portfolio which is doing today. So I expect it to be very good growth in 2024 for plant health.

Yes. We don't -- that last bit, we don't break out, Laurence. I don't know what controversy you're talking about, about the diamides. We love the business. Higher margins than normal in general, have been since we bought the business, continue to be so. Margin, profile, very strong. I would expect -- I think it was the middle part of your question that as the diamides continue, we'll see what happens with our India business as we go through all the channel inventory work. That may be a drag. Partners, we've already said, is going to be lower. The rest of the branded will see as we accelerate through the year. The new product introductions will definitely be faster growth than the rest. That's how we see the business. It's a strong franchise has been since we owned it and it continues to be.

Yes. Listen, I'm not going to guide' '25 in February. I can tell you that the growth that we see is related to new product introductions, more normal market growth at the top line. we will then see the benefit of our restructuring program hit the bottom line and the absence of all the headwinds that we're seeing today, those will reverse and will obviously contribute to the growth in EBITDA next year. Andrew, do you want to give any more color?

Yes. Thanks, Richard. Yes, we have seen already some insights into how distribution is thinking of managing its own supply chain. And clearly, distribution is lower its inventory levels. you would expect that to happen. The good news is some of the insights we already have in certain parts of the world like the U.S. which we think is probably the furthest advanced at the grower level and at the retailer level. inventory is probably at or maybe even below normal levels. So it's going to be interesting as we really roll into the U.S. season starting in a month or so time [ph], how that really unfolds. The rest of the pieces have been put in place.

I do expect Europe to have a much better view. The survey we've put in place is pretty comprehensive. And we're really entering the European seasons Q1 and Q2 are the big growth areas for Europe. So I'm very interested once we get through to the end of Q2, what does that survey tell us when we get to the end of the season. As I said, it's very comprehensive. It's hundreds of different retailers and more importantly, growers throughout Europe. So we'll get a good view there.