Mark Morelli
Vontier Corporation (VNT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So first of all, we've been pretty encouraged that our book-to-bill has hung in there through 2023. It's just been hovering just below one fairly steadily. And that's been encouraging because we've obviously had the face reducing lead times, some minor destocking issues. But -- so that -- I think the demand has been there.

I think as we work through those further headwinds into 2024, I think the secular drivers are still at work. I think we've got a lot of momentum coming out of the year. I think it's pretty hard to exactly call when the book-to-bill will inflect above one.

But we're seeing sort of the legs of the work that we've been doing with the backdrop of these secular drivers and these integrated solutions that we're having in the marketplace, we're getting good traction with our customers based on serving the market and the secular drivers and some of the larger players in the industry that are consolidating. So all these are really good signs.

Our channel checks are going well, where we're looking at the build out and the demand of the infrastructure, it certainly seems to be there. Keep in mind, most of our customers are also not necessarily dependent on the interest rate environment.

They've got really strong balance sheet, really flush with cash, and these folks are continue to build out, and they're looking a little bit further down the road with that infrastructure build-out and the decisions they're making to do that. And these are the folks that we have leading share with.

So we feel pretty encouraged on what we see into 2024, of course, a lot of 2024 in front of us. So it's hard to tell everything that will happen. But for what we see right now, I think it's pretty encouraging.

Yes. So first of all, '23 was a really strong year for that platform. I think it really shows that the secular drivers are at work and I think the product launches we've done there have served us well through '23. As we get into the 2024 cycle, we did indicate there was a small portion of our business exposed to destock about 15% of revenue.

And we're working through that pretty well. I mean the aftermarket parts was one area that we saw destocking last year. And we think we're through that, we saw Q4 with double-digit growth in aftermarket parts, which is a great -- been a great business for us. I think it's benefiting the fact that we gained share during the EMV cycle. We have a great installed base, and we've really focused on that as one of our profitable growth initiatives.

And so through the destocking there, I think it bodes well for 2024. And then on the underground side, which also experienced some destocking there, we're mostly through that. I think we performed well in the quarter. International markets were really strong on environmental offset, some of the destocking, some of the weakness in North America.

So overall, a really good performance on environmental. But more to your question, as we get into 2024, most of that destocking is through some still pockets of it on the West Coast, and we should be through that in the first half. So kind of getting to your point here, we see a good backdrop. Anshooman, do you want to add anything there?

Yes. So I'm going to make some comments, also turn it over to Anshooman. So first of all, to specifically answer your question, the market backdrop is pretty strong for the auto technician today. I don't think it's any secret that employment is at an all-time high, and the wage rates are also at an all-time high.

I think the thing that might weigh on the service technician is just sort of the backdrop with overall raising prices as a consumer. And certainly, if they're buying other things that they're paying more for it, certainly with higher interest rates as well. And so that could certainly impact some of the buying behavior.

So we've been very carefully looking at that and watching that. And I think the thing that has boded well for our growth is that we just kind of a really strong product lineup. One of the areas we differentiate ourselves on is that vitality, bringing new products to market. I think we just had an excellent lineup this year.

We've launched a new diagnostics platform that's selling well. Our power tool line up has been doing outstanding through 2023. And then our toolbox factory has been on the mend, so we are actually seeing movement of higher-priced items in this market environment, which I think has been encouraging to us. It's hard to say exactly what 2024 will bring in this regard.

So we're watching it carefully. But at the same time, we've been pretty darn encouraged with the results that we've been getting in the marketplace. Anshooman, you want to add anything there.

Yes. I'll just reiterate that, Julian, that we feel that we've really demonstrated a very disciplined approach on the capital allocation. And it's something I think we think about a lot. We spend a lot of time thinking through the different avenues for this, and we're extremely disciplined, very patient, with how we figure these things out.

So we don't feel in a rush to do M&A if that's maybe where people might think. But we will have M&A part of the equation and bolt-ons when the right hurdle rates are met and the right strategy kind of plays out for us. So very strategy led on that. And then I think more of what we've done in the prior year.

I think, has worked really well. So we continue to spend time on this, and I think you're just going to see a very disciplined approach.

So thank you for that question. We've been super excited about the progress we've been making with iNFX platform. And Shell is going really well. We've deployed pretty significant amount, almost maybe 25% of that very large order. If you may remember, we accepted orders from Shell and Chevron that represents about 15% of the USC store installed base.

So some really big orders there. And so the fact that we're progressing through them really nicely in the rollout, I think bodes well. I think there is other large names that are out there that are piloting it. They're taking a very close interest in some of the productivity gains they get from this platform, which is really one of the central issues that they are facing is how do they manage that infrastructure in a more productive way.

And this platform really fits exactly into that need. So a lot of attention on it, and I think we'll keep you posted and we've done press releases in the past, and we keep you posted as we continue to get wins. Our pipeline is no question growing for this offering. And keep in mind that that's just for the payment aspect, we also have, think of iNFX more as a site management platform.

And so we have a lot more buildout around the iNFX platform on site management related productivity and automation, which is an outstanding theme with some great secular drivers behind that for the mobility ecosystem. So we're excited about it, and there will be more to come.

Yes. It's a long-standing part of our business model in Matco, where we're pretty nimble with our supply chain and through our suppliers. So we heavily engage our supply chain with the team that focuses on the market and on the high-value problems that service technicians are facing.

One of the biggest issue for a service technician is how do they how can they be more productive in the shop? How can they make sure they're not running into problems. They have the right tools and capabilities.

And if they can do things that drop their time and have higher efficiency, in the shop, then that's a major boom for them, and they're certainly willing to pay for that and they don't ever want to approach a situation where they might buy -- bog down the shop or bog down their productivity.

As you know, if you've ever had your car repaired recently, you know it's just difficult, just the overall labor challenges and the complexity of repair is going up with new monitor vehicles, including electric vehicles, things are more complex. And so that is a great backdrop for our business model, which really focuses on this productivity aspect within the shop.

And I think what you're seeing is our product lineup this year has been just great. I think we've identified the right issues that can help the service technician and they're certainly willing to spend in that environment.

Yes. Thanks for joining us today. I'm really excited about our operational performance for '23. Our outlook for 2024 also is reflective of the significant progress of our portfolio transformation and the momentum that we have. I can tell you, I'm not more thrilled to have the EMV cycle behind us and look forward to a clean core growth in 2024.

I'm incredibly proud of our team, and I look forward to further executing on our Connected Mobility strategy. So, we look forward to seeing folks on the road in the coming weeks. Have a great day.