Mark Penn
Stagwell Inc. (STGW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think that a lot of our core creative tends to be a little bit more project-oriented, so I think that it can ebb and flow more easily than some of the others. I was generally satisfied with the performance of the core creative, given the overall marketplace. And I think that you look then at a lot of stuff pushed into this year because I think we had a really strong Super Bowl presence.

I think we're seeing big tech ease up. I think that we really saw this dramatic cutback at the beginning of last year that extended through the year. I think in the fourth quarter -- as I said, I thought it would take about two quarters to see recovery. I think we've had one tech company really where we've expanded almost 50% to 100% without even a pitch.

Some of the companies that had cut back and gone into zero, so I'm not going to say that they are back to full spend, but I think that they have considerably started to ease up, and we saw that start happening in the fourth quarter, and I expect that to continue into the first quarter.

Look, I think that the work that they're going to need to get AI working and coordinated with their own consumers is going to be huge here. I think you see it in companies introducing AI products and then having to pull back how much work is really going to be required in the digital transformation world, end of that, I think it's just a matter of time before those floodgates get open. I don't think they're open yet. I'd be surprised if they didn't open up by mid-year.

AI, AI and AI. Look, I think that this is going from the year of efficiency, where I think the tech companies manage to recover their bottom line very strongly by cutting back what they're doing into what is a year of competition. I think nobody owns the cloud anymore. I think nobody owns AI. I think the two biggest things out there now are going to see really active competition. And that means the big tech companies are going to have to invest in both their own products and in the marketing of those products and in winning over consumers.

Look, I think ultimately the most traction will be in developing AI applications for our clients. I think you have to look at every website and say, is it doing the best job that it can do, given AI. Look at some of the things we're doing, where people are going to say something like, well, I want to hold an office party or I want to hold an earnings call, tell me all the things I need.

So rather than having to go specify everything, AI is going to figure that out for you. It's going to transform the shopping and communication experience that people have. I think that is going to be the biggest area and our biggest area of weakness over this year, which has been the digital transformation.

I mean -- by the way, digital transformation industry saw weakness across the board in a lot of the players here. I think that's going to fill up with these kinds of assignments. Obviously, we're incorporating it in our products, profit, Quest AI, and obviously, we are looking to simplify our own internal procedures, even down to like the reading of all the hundreds of thousands of builds that come in using AI.

So it is at all levels. But I think the biggest thing is that, out there virtually every company is going to get organized now to figure out how is it going to apply AI, particularly to the last mile, how you communicate with your consumer.

No. I think that if anything, you can be sure, this is going to be an all-out slugfest of the highest possible dimensions and proportions. The closer the country is, and this is a very close country, the more political spending goes to infinity, because that very last vote determines the fate of the nation, literally. So I think all indications are and our early indications are that this is going to be the strongest political cycle in history.

But I don't think you have to look at savings just in terms of kind of standard cutbacks. I think you look at the kind of inventive things that we're doing to save. The application of AI internally, the creation of a new central production group that will greatly reduce internal production costs, the creation of a new survey panel. We spend $50 million on outside survey.

So the ability to in-house and produce more of those basic costs of goods is really going to, I think, be very much behind the next phase of cost reduction, as well as the kind of offshoring that we're doing for simplified tasks. If people aren't in the office, they might as well be in the office a long, long way to lower cost jurisdiction. So I think that we're going to apply all of those things to continue to drive costs down and what I believe is the cost-declining industry.

I think we're looking at a sale that I thought might take place by the end of the year, that I think is going to be later in the year, probably something about a half or a little bit more than half the size of the last disposition. I have one or two others, I do think that we're going to continue to look at our portfolio and say, look at those things that are non-core and somewhere between $100 million and $200 million a year, say, maybe we can better invest at a lower multiple in the areas that are core to us, and also take advantage of the fact that we have an incredible platform and we've grown some amazing companies over time here that have spectacular values that aren't fully realized in the marketplace yet.

Well, look, I think we heard you. I think that, first, many of the moves that occurred in the marketplace were unprecedented. We've been doing this for eight years or so. And outside the pandemic, we haven't had a situation, as we did, where say, three major clients cut back $50 million of fees so quickly as you saw the year of efficiency come in.

I think, second, we have really cut costs significantly during the year and have significant additional goals for cutting costs. And I think we were coming off of that a really strong, heady 2022 that had really high levels of labor. And also, this is a political year in what we expect to be a political year. And we have hedged the budgets here to really try to be prudent in the kind of projections that we're making. And finally, as I mentioned. We're informed by being able to take a peek at the numbers coming into check.

Thank you.