Mark Begor
Equifax Inc. (EFX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Can you ask the second question again?

Well, we think the 8.5% is quite good. It's obviously inside of our 8% to 12% range, which is how we want to grow the company. We've talked about some of the pressures on our non-mortgage really in the talent market. And then second is the ERC impact, which that program has been curtailed by the IRS. And John talked about the impact that, that's having, which is on Equifax is a meaningful amount on a year-over-year basis. As far as upsides, I don't think we think about any upsides to that 8.5% because we think it's a pretty good growth rate.

And that's only one lever, obviously, for government vertical growth inside of Workforce Solutions, as we've talked about. As you know, that business was up super strong last year and again in '22, ended the year at over $500 million. So a very big business for us with big growth potential at the state level of continuing penetration. We've got a TAM there that's $3 billion plus against that $500 million. So there's a lot of opportunities to get the states that are not using our solution today. They're still using manual verification of income and employment, which is required for government social services.

As you recall, we -- a couple of months ago, we landed a big extension to our CMS contract. It was $1.2 billion. That rolls into 2024. And then the new USDA contract that we signed in September was a new contract that obviously rolls into 2024. So there's a meaningful number of growth levers at government, and we're quite bullish as we talked about. We expect that business to be a big growth contributor to Workforce Solutions and outgrow Workforce Solutions 13 to 15 long-term growth rate, significantly outgrow that again in ‘24.

I'd start with -- and I think we tried to be clear about that. We don't see any real change as we go into 2024 from those verticals like cards, auto, p loans, how they performed in the second half of last year. We talked a little bit about fintech was impacted in the second half of '22 and into '23, but that seems to be kind of a, I would call it, a stable level now, meaning it's not declining, which is good news versus the declines that happened last year. Large FIs are fairly consistent as far as they're still originating because consumers are strong. There's some choppiness with some of the smaller FIs that might be impacted by some liquidity stuff. But again, not a real change from what we saw in the second half of last year.

Yes. So I'll go near term, which is 2024, I think we laid out that CapEx is coming down again this year in 2024. We expect it to step down again next year as we complete the cloud, big cloud completion in our USIS business and some of our international properties in the first half of this year and getting to 90% cloud complete will be a big milestone. So you're going to see our CapEx come down over the short term, meaning in '24 and over the medium term in '25 again as we complete the cloud. Over that timeframe, we expect our margins to continue to expand, which will grow our free cash flow. Our free cash flow this year is up almost 2x.

So our free cash flow in 2024 is up substantially. We expect that to continue to grow as we get into '25 and '26. And so as you get over the -- again, back in '24, we have a pipeline of M&A that we're watching. I suspect that given we're already in February here that, that M&A would be in the second half if we do some. We're going to be very disciplined around M&A as we always have been. And we're focused on integrating the large number of acquisitions. We've done 14 in a little over three years that we're integrating like Boa Vista, as we talked about on the call. But when you get look forward to '25 and '26, we'll continue to add bolt-on M&A inside of that 8 to 12 framework that includes 1 to 2 points of revenue growth from bolt-on M&A.

So that's clearly a part of our strategy. And we've been crystal clear that as our margins expand and we still have the goal of 39%, and we still have the goal of growing 50 bps a year post 39. As we move towards that 39% and our CapEx comes down, we would expect to have significant excess free cash flow when you get into '25 and '26, where we could look at restarting the dividend and also look at buying back meaningful amounts of our stock, and that's no change in that. We've been very clear in that over the last really three years that that’s the goal we’ve been working towards as we complete the cloud.

Yes. And it's really around the government social services delivery, which is huge. There's 90 million Americans roughly that get some form of government social services, whether it's food support, rent support, cash support, childcare support, student lending support, all those different programs, unemployment support. All of those programs have to be verified by income and you have to verify employment and there's also an incarceration check on many of them, which is from our APRs data set. We've been growing rapidly there because of the real desire to deliver those social services quickly to those that deserve them and need them. And our instant data really delivers that. And we're competing, as you know, against manual processes and paper paste dogs, which means the recipient who's after the social services generally has to bring in proof of income. We can deliver it instantly. And of course, where our data is accurate, it's one to two weeks old depending upon the time frame because we're getting payroll every two weeks and we have such broad coverage.

So our programs are really at kind of three levels at the federal, state and local level. We have federal programs where some of that verification is done at the federal level like with Social Security Administration. That's a large contract for us. We talked earlier in this call about the CMS contract that we extended. It's done at the federal, but then executed at the state level and the new USDA contract. And then we operate at the very state level and the state levels are more complex. There's a large, large penetration opportunity at the states. That's really where a big portion of our growth will come and a big portion of that TAM that you referenced is all the states -- all 50 states are not with Equifax, and it's really at the agency level, each state has separate agencies that deliver these services, and that's who our customers are. I think as you know, we've added resources over the last number of years at the state capital levels to work on deploying these resources. So we have a large pipeline. As you might imagine, we're focused on the large states: California, Texas, New York, Florida and some of the big, big states that are out there, but we have a focus on all of them.

And as you go forward over the next '24, into '25, '26, that will be a big part of the growth is our penetration into the states to deliver these services. And it's a very strong value prop. In many cases, the data costs are subsidized by the federal government just as the social services are. So it's matter of getting the technology aligned with ours and helping change the process flow at each of those different agencies in all 50 states in order to deliver those. So we're very bullish about that business. As we said, it's close to $0.5 billion at the end of last year, and we expect strong double-digit growth again in 2024.

Regardless, incremental mortgage margins are super attractive. And we tried to be clear in including that our view of what normal mortgage volumes are in the 2015 to '19 range versus where we are today at 50% below that. There's a lot of upsides in '24, '25, '26, and we try to frame that in talking about the $1 billion of revenue potential in the future.

On the second half of your -- or first half of your question about inquiries. The USIS inquiries because of shopping are different than the EWS inquiries, which generally are more involved in closed loans, meaning on the shopping side, someone will do shopping on two or three different mortgage originators, but close with only one. So that's the difference. And last year, we opted to try to disclose that data.

You referenced market volume data that's out there. There really isn't any market volume data out there, except on a very long lag basis. There are forecasts which you can describe as data, I would call those forecasts and that data. And we talked about what MBA is forecasting and some of the others and some of the Street is forecasting improvements later in the year based on rate cuts that haven't happened yet for mortgage volume. We've been very clear, and we've been doing it since I've been here that we forecast mortgage volumes on the way up. We did it on the way down, and we're doing it currently based on our current trends.

And as it changes, we'll share it with you. We tried to frame the positive potential impact on us on the top line as well as the bottom line as mortgage returns to normal. And again, we think over time, whether it's ‘24, ‘25, ’26, mortgage volumes will return to normal. It's just uncertain when the Fed is going to make those rate changes and we'll be transparent on what our activity is because we see activity every day. And that's what we talk about when we talk about trends. We have -- we know what the inquiries are we got yesterday, and we know what they were last week and the week before, and we used those to really forecast what we think they're going to be going forward.

It's actually, it's a little bit different. Originations, we don't get actual originations and the industry doesn't for until six months after they happen, somewhere in that time frame. It's a complex process for mortgages to close and then those mortgages to be posted in essence, on the credit file is when we see it. So the -- any mortgage origination data is actually on a lag basis. Obviously, there are forecasts that lots of people put together, but those are forecasts and not actual data. You can't determine what -- how many originations happened yesterday, that's just not available. Inquiries, yes, and we're super transparent with you about inquiries that we see on a current basis.

I think we did highlight that we saw some -- we used the term slight because they are slight improvements in, call it, the net last almost 60 days, which we view as a positive, which is why we're -- it feels like we're at a bottom in the mortgage market, which I think is a positive for Equifax. And when you look at Equifax at -- and again, we're calling a mark-to-market that's down. But meaning said differently, in a flat mortgage market, we grow our revenue because of our outperformance in both businesses through price product, more records in EWS and penetration in EWS. I think the 15, John, is kind of in the same ZIP code even with those slight improvements. But we'll continue to be transparent as we look forward. And we know you and many others on the call, are looking for an improvement in inquiries. We are, too. When it happens, we'll share it with you, and I think that's going to be a real positive for Equifax going forward. But we want to be consistent in how we forecasted for as long as I've been here around -- off of current trends because, look, we're not economists, we can't forecast where rates are going. None of us forecasted the rates last year and the increases. And as recently as this past weekend, I think the Fed kind of pushed out the potential rate decreases that many were expecting in March out to later in the year. So we think it’s prudent to have a balanced forecast that’s consistent with how we’ve done it historically.

Yes, they're a little bit better than how we thought they would be when we gave guidance in October. That started in December, I said we called it slight improvements. But that's factored into the guidance we've shared with you this morning. So we've included that in the down 15%, and we'll continue to watch that closely. And watch it going forward.

And obviously, we all know if, in fact, the Fed is going to take rates down. That's good news for our mortgage business in the future, which is why we tried to frame that $1 billion of potential revenue in the future as mortgage volumes return to more normal levels, and we expect them to return to normal levels.

At these high rates, people are sitting on homes that they want to upgrade and move to that 4-bedroom home versus a three and they're waiting for rates to come down. Now what's that inflection point? We'll see. But the positive from our eyes is that it feels like the market has bottomed and with the Fed's managing inflation and indicating rate cuts in the future, that's going to be a good guide for Equifax and a tailwind going forward. The question is when?

On some new products that Equifax rolled out.