Mark J. Parrell
Equity Residential (EQR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Eric, it's Mark. Just to start, the others can contribute. I mean, you look at the numbers in DC and Boston and New York last year were outstanding. So, we're being thoughtful. We're being a little cautious going into a volatile year, but your restatement of the setup is correct. I mean, those northeast markets have steady demand, by and large, minimal supply or in DC's case, strong absorption characteristics. I mean, we're optimistic those markets can continue to do well. In some cases, like New York, and Michael alluded to that, they're coming off really big rent growth years. In some cases, there's a little bit of a pause to catch your breath and let resident incomes grow to catch up to rental growth. But, I mean, if you didn't get that message, we're super optimistic about the northeast markets and think they will do very well. It's just trying to handicap all the various crosscurrents in the economy that are challenging for us.

Yes. I'm just going to add a little bit to that. If you look at ‘25 expected deliveries and some stuff from ‘24 will definitely slip, I mean, it's about as big as ‘23’s delivery. So, it's not like ‘25 is a, incredible decline. So, what we really see, Jeff, as we look at this is still good demand in those markets. That's why we like Dallas, Fort Worth, Denver, Austin and Atlanta. But the supply picture in our experience, we'll spend this whole year with declining new lease rates, occupancy pressure, all of those things, and you as an investor and an analyst may start to see improvement in that so called second derivative of rent growth late this year beginning of ‘25. But same store revenue growth in our experience will be worse in ‘25, not in ‘24 because all those leases that are being rewritten will go through the rent roll. And so you may be more optimistic in ‘25, but your numbers actually likely will be worse.

So, that's what we've seen with supply in our history across our markets, and then we don't really see why it'd be any different here. And I think the wild card is if you have incredible job growth in these markets, you may be able to absorb some of this supply more efficiently and get through it more quickly. But the idea that ‘24 is the only oversupplied year is kind of a tough one for us to accept.

Well, the guidance is just to help you model. If Alec, can buy things in his team earlier at good prices, we'll buy them earlier. The relationship I think you're going to see here is that prices now seem okay, maybe not quite good enough, but the discount to basis, the replacement cost, pardon me, is very good. It's the cap rate. And when you look at, like, two years of declining rental growth, you buy in Dallas, your year two number might be lower your cap rate than your year one.

But on the other hand, later this year, you'll be past some of that and your year two number will look a little better. So, likely paying a higher price. So, that's what you're going to see us navigate. We like these markets long-term. We think owning the four markets that we've, tabbed as our expansion markets, say, 25% of the company will create more balance and drive growth better and reduce volatility over time, Jeff. But getting into them is a little bit of an art.

There's going to be a little bit that we probably do sooner, a little bit we do later, and you may feel better about the price in one and not as good about the revenue growth in the other and vice versa. But, we're prepared to do that. And, again, the number you see there is just sort of the guidance assumption. We'd be happy to do more if we can find more.

Hi, Robin, it's Mark. Thanks for that question. Our primary capital allocation goal is going to remain building out the portfolio in the way I just described in these expansion markets and lowering exposure in Washington DC, New York, and California. Again, we believe that portfolio will create the highest returns over time, the lowest volatility, that that'll make the shareholders the most money in the long haul.

All that said, we're going to continue to consider these share buybacks, especially when you get this bigger value dislocation and when you can fund it with assets that are the least desirable, among the least desirable in the portfolio against the portfolio that we think is really top notch and where there isn't a lot to buy.

That's an important other ingredient. There wasn't a lot of opportunity cost here, there wasn't a lot else available to buy at prices that made sense and all those capital structure considerations have to be thought about too. We've talked about on these calls. Things like, does it create a lot of tax gain that's hard for a REIT to manage. That worked out okay for us.

Bob has done a great job and his team on the balance sheet, so I don't have to worry about debt maturities that we need to kind of husband our capital. And another I want to introduce is you got to be careful about platform scaling. If you sell too many assets, you can really increase your overhead as a percentage of revenue. But all that said, the Board and the management team remain open to buybacks.

And for us, it's hard for me to give you a formula. We're just going to kind of see what market conditions are, where the stock goes, what's out there to buy, and, keep our mind open to doing more, stock buybacks.

Hi, Michael, it's Mark, and I think, Michael Manelis may have something to add here. So, we talked a lot about San Francisco on the call, the last one and why we like the market long-term, feel the same way. The management team thinks there's going to be elongated recovery in that market. Conditions on the ground are a lot better. The mayor put out some information about crime reductions. They have the biggest class of police cadets, at the police academy in San Francisco, they've had since before the pandemic. So, there's some good things going on. But until, as Michael said, we get a little more tech job growth, which talking to the team and talking to others in the Bay area and in the city of San Francisco is probably a more later ‘24, ‘25 thing. That's probably where you get rent to take off.

The thing I want you to think about is, you've had spectacular growth in incomes in the Bay area since 2019, over 30% nominal and 12% or 13% on a real basis, yet our rents are down in the city of San Francisco 20% since 2019 and kind of flattish to up marginally in the Bay area. So, this is a market that, like New York, can really take off once you get some job growth, because there isn't a lot of new supply. Housing costs are pretty high. So, the management team's optimistic about the recovery. The timing is kind of tough. I don't know, Michael, if you've got anything you want to add.

Yes. I forgot to mention something on Seattle I just want to throw out there. Seattle's nominal wage growth since 2019 is 40%, right. Yet our rents in that market are up 7%, and downtown, they're flat. So, again, these markets have the ability to pay more for great quality housing. And, again, Seattle is a supply, push this year, but after that, it gets a lot lighter. So, that's about a third of our portfolio, Seattle and San Francisco. And I hope, Michael, we're talking about that second derivative towards the end of this year for you, but we haven't embedded that into our guidance.

Yes. Thanks for that question, Jamie. I guess I attack it another way by certainly lease ups are different. But remember, the numbers we're telling you are same store numbers, so they won't include lease up conversations. But I would say we have relatively small portfolios in those markets. So, if one property is being hit hard, it could be one out of eight of our same store assets in, Denver. So, I think that is it. I think different people, obviously, different parts of the market feel it differently.

So, that would be my comment. We have relatively small portfolios. I mean, Austin, we have three same store assets.

We'd love to move more quickly in completing our, repositioning. I don't feel any need to do that by selling assets cheap. I think you'll continue to see us, sell assets that are a little bit less desirable from our point of view. It's more about the difference, Jamie, between the sale and the buy, if we can sell things well, we can pay up a little bit on the buy side. And, again, we're creating that diversification we value. So, it's a little bit about if we're doing trading like that, it's going to depend on both the sale price and the buy price.

To the extent we try and expand the company through debt activities, then the interest rate that Bob's borrowing at is going to become more relevant. So, I think right now would be somewhere in the name of where the 5% for 10 year money. So, I hope that's helpful, but we'd like to move faster. We point out that since 2019, when we started this, we've moved billions of dollars of capital into those markets, but the transaction markets have been closed for half of the last four and a half years because of COVID and because of the Fed.

So, we're hopeful that in a wide open year, I mean, we did, I think, $1.7 billion back in ‘22. We're capable of doing $2 billion plus a year for sure. If the opportunities present themselves and we push the gas hard, it's got to make some sense. De minimis dilution is one thing. Wholesale dilution would require some sort of justification that, we could get on this call and you all would feel was compelling.

We would accept some dilution to complete our strategic repositioning. The IRR matters. I mean, these deals got to make sense. We like owning newer assets because we'll have less capital. At the end of the day, the portfolios we'll own in Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, and Austin. We'll be the youngest portfolios of our REIT competitors. We think that's beneficial to our shareholders on the IRR CapEx side, not just on the NOI side.

So, yes, we want to push the gas on this. We want to move this along. The IRR matters. The cap rate matters, dilution matters, but, getting it done matters a lot.

I guess we'll see. I our sense, again, from all our comments on San Francisco and Seattle is that they still are appealing places for our demographic to live that people will want to live in the center of those cities and the whole market and that, I don't know about some sort of wholesale repricing.

And you saw New York recovered smartly on the rent side, and there's some deals going on in the investment sales market that would support New York trading at a lower cap rate as it historically has than the national average. So, I think the story is yet to be told on the West Coast markets because there's just no one selling, in the urban centers. But, I don't think, there's an answer to that, but I think the appeal of those centers is true and obvious and will come, and we've kind of given you our view of that.

Yes. Well, I'm going to say is just how we've seen things play out in our market. So, the first thing that you see is you start to see a decline in occupancy when you get all of this, when you get a lot supply or big demand drop or both. So, the markets you've seen competitors in the RealPage numbers sort of show declines in occupancy. That pressures owners to give concessions and lower face rate, and then that in turn eventually affects same store revenue, which is, of course, the interplay between occupancy rate, renewals, and the whole nine yards.

And so, in when it reverses, the exact opposite happens. First, you start to see, I'm building my occupancy a little. As Michael spoke to Seattle and San Francisco, that gives you a little bit of confidence. So, now you're going to take away of your concessions, you're going to try to move rate up a little, especially in the spring leasing season, you're going to test that as that improves, and, eventually, that'll flow through to your same store revenue number.

So, that's what I mean by that comment. So that this year, same store revenue might hold up better in a heavily supplied market or a demand challenged market because you're looking at a situation where your rents, you haven't rewritten every lease down yet.

But over the course of two years, you will. And in that process, that second year same store revenue number is often lower, But we're often telling you, hey, you know what? New lease is going up. We're feeling better in a market. And that's what I'm sort of expecting. We'll see how it goes, but my expectation is sometime in ‘25, folks will be talking about an improvement in some of those, I call it second derivative, but new lease rates, street rent numbers, and it isn't going to be dramatic right away, but it's sort of some solidification of that that's really built on occupancy starting to improve.

So, again, you got all this supply. Our experience is it compounds. It gets worse before it gets better, and it just takes a little while to run through the entire P&L. Is that helpful, Rich?

I don't have a prediction on that. We told you we didn't put San Francisco and Seattle in this year's improvement bucket. I have high hopes, but it feels like because of supply in Seattle and just job conditions in San Francisco, it could take a little longer, and I think the Sunbelt is just starting its challenges. So, I think both areas will be a little challenged in ‘24.

Yes. So, I think I would just start by just saying that the concession use right now remains concentrated in the Seattle and San Francisco portfolio for us with about 70% of all the concessions being issued. When you drill into the expansion markets, I mean, it's such a small percent of the absolute portfolio. But right now, when you go across them, it's running between, like, 30% and 45% of applications receiving about a month.

I'd say Dallas right now is the one market where we're up closer to about six weeks, worth of concessions being issued. And like I said, we would expect that to kind of continue at that level in those expansion markets, and we're watching what's going to be happening with the new lease ups and how competitive are they so that we know where we need to play.

The fact that these markets are now, like, 96% or even some of them over 96% with that concession use that we did in the fourth quarter is really a good sign, because the last thing you want to do is turn on concessions, do leasing, and still land at an occupancy like where you started with. That would not be a good situation.

So, we feel like the setup right now is defensive. These occupancies are 2% to 3% above. We expect to issue 30% to 40% of our applications receiving concessions of a month to a month and a half in those markets.

Okay. I’m going to start with some of that and then Alec may answer parts of it as well, Haendel, but on the Mez Investment side, I think the part that Alec emphasized was the path to ownership. So, what we've been more hesitant to participate in is to just create a book where we are consistently making mezzanine loans or preferred equity investments in deals where it's improbable that we would end up being the owner. When we're working with the lender and the owner and we get in the capital structure and there's a good chance we're going to end up with the deal. That, to us, is very different. That is stuff we did do back in ‘08 or ‘09 through 2010. So, that is a familiar thing for me and Alec and a lot of folks on the team to do.

So, that's how I would distinguish the two of those. I don't know if there was anything else in that question you wanted to answer, Alec. No?

I guess I will, you asked about acquiring assets in one form or another in our established coastal markets, we're certainly open to that. We've got some development deals. We're likely to start in some of those established markets that are in areas really hard to build. But the primary focus is to get into these expansion markets and add capital there.

And, Rob, just to add to that. I mean, these markets, Seattle and San Francisco, particularly though, you could think about downtown LA too. We may have powerful drivers. For us, it's like we talked about New York when everyone was down on New York City, and we were positive on it still. That recovery has been vibrant. I think it's the same pattern here. It's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when, and I think these markets will recover greatly on the rental side over the next few years. What we shied away from on this call is, excessive enthusiasm too early in the year when you're not really into the leasing season yet, in markets that do have volatility associated with them.

So, I don't feel any sense of permanent impairment in these markets at all. I think that you're going to have great rental growth. You're going to have a recovery that's pretty strong in these markets. And you are likely, but not certain to follow a pattern like in New York, where again, the sales market has some deals in it in New York, and they're trading really well. And so, I'm not sure why in a few years, San Francisco and Seattle wouldn't trade very well as well, but it's just going to take some time.

And, again, our hesitancy here is really around the timeline for this, not the occurrence of it. And I think it's a catalyst for our investors. I think having, a portion of the portfolio and unrecovered markets with rents lower than they were in ‘19 and incomes a lot higher is a huge potential piece of kindling wood to our earnings in future years.

Rob, it's Mark. I mean, there's negatives and there's positives in the regulatory area. The ballot measure is by far the biggest point of focus in the industry. And just to remind everyone, this has been on the ballot twice before. The citizens of California rejected it by 20 percentage points each time. The industry is well organized. We're going to make the same good arguments about supply being the solution, more rental voucher funding being the solution.

And to be honest, the Governor Newsom and the legislature have done a lot of supply things with the accessory dwelling unit legislation, with some of the zoning reforms. And so to be honest, when I turn to the positive on the regulatory side, people would hear us. They hear the industry's point about supply, about zoning reform. Governor DeSantis, obviously, couldn't be more different than Governor Newsom. He has done some great things in Florida as it relates to housing policy as well and zoning reform to allow more affordable housing to be built.

Governor Hochul in New York was trying the same thing and got a lot of resistance, but we hope that is still in place. So California is, to answer your question, the focal point of us in the industry at large this year. But markets like New York and, Massachusetts and Colorado, there's always dialogue going on in those markets, but we're well organized to have that conversation. And I think policymakers, by and large, understand that supplies the answer, not rental regulation. That's what I think is the positive here.

You hear about that a lot more in our conversations, and the reaction to rent control is, something that we talk through and, you get a lot of people calling the other direction after they've heard the arguments.

Thank you.

Thank you all for hanging in there on this long call. We appreciate your, interest and your time today. Good day.