Mark Eubanks
The Brink's Company (BCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, George.

Yes. Thanks, George. As we look at the business just sort of globally, maybe I’ll just spin around the regions a little bit, because there’s some different – some unique aspects around. We’re seeing strong pricing continue, George, relative to inflation. Although, we’ve seen inflation subside in most regions, we continue to see pricing that exceeds inflation that’s allowing us to continue to maintain our margins.

Particularly in North America, we’ve seen whilst inflation has subsided, there’s still and you’ll see the numbers today, I’m sure we haven’t seen the PCE number yet, but we’ll still continue to see local inflation here for the workforce, which is putting pressure on wages and we’re continuing to push that through. I think that the demand side, though, has really – we’ve not seen the demand impact, though, from that price pressure, particularly as we shift our business model DRS. This is an area where we continue to see a lot of success, particularly not only in bookings, but also in a growing pipeline, I mentioned the prepared comments, our pipeline is up 50% year-on-year for sales opportunities. By the way, we’re also seeing that around the globe in any other regions.

If we move to Latin America, again, there’s quite a few different things going on down there. Some geopolitical uncertainty, of course, in Argentina, and really continue to see the market and the economy in Brazil be light. And so a lot of pricing in those markets as we continue to push through. I’d say in the rest of Latin America, really pretty stable. That pricing continues to follow that a little bit higher than 50-50 mix of price to volume, but we continue to see that.

We expect that to continue to normalize as we move into 2024. We’ve already seen that be the case both in Latin America as well as North America. Moving on to Europe, things, again, they’re pretty stable. We are seeing good DRS and AMS pickup, and you can see that in the numbers. We also have a good pipeline of opportunities that we’ve signed and booked that we’ll see come online in Europe, particularly on the AMS side.

Moving on to rest of world. Rest of world is predominantly our BGS business. A lot of the global services business is there in that segment. We’ve saw that return and continue to pick up sequentially Q3 to Q4, if you remember, we had a bit of a softness in Q3 globally with our global services business, particularly on commodities and banknotes movements. We’ve seen that pick back up sequentially in Q4, predominantly in rest of world segment. We did see some softness there in BGS in North America, which you can see coming through on the volume side. But all in all, the pricing environment stays pretty consistent with 2023 as we ebb into 2024, levelizing a little bit closer to 50-50.

Sure. Well, we actually had a similar look last year, although, maybe it’s a little bit more, but about 50% of our organic growth we’re anticipating to be in DRS and AMS. That’s an expectation. Last year, we were about the same, maybe we were a little bit less of the organic growth, but going forward, we’ll be a little more. And I think as the business becomes a larger percentage of the base, as you know, we exited the year at 21% of total revenue from AMS/DRS.

As that base continues to get bigger and the organic growth rates are higher than the CBM business. We’re continued to see that maybe 50-50 split of organic to growth of AMS/DRS to the rest of the business probably accelerate a little bit, maybe be a little more than 50%. So for us, that’s what’s embedded in our guide. Now, that obviously excludes the Argentina impact to organic growth, but that mid-single-digit organic growth that we would expect would be, like I said, about half of that would be AMS/DRS.

Sure. Thanks, Tobey. Maybe I’ll take DRS first and then AMS second. On the DRS side, the single kind of one customer, one location, simple retail shop of remote deposits, provisional capital, digital transparency, integration with POS systems. I think that has been an evolution and in some of the larger markets, we have some – obviously have some differentiation that we’re leading with. But I’d say that is largely us with the other participants, let’s say moving that market and driving that market probably in a [indiscernible] in a concerted way, it’s a clear value proposition for customers.

I think the other thing that I would say, our DRS is extended, and this is where I think we’re leading, would be as we’re looking to close – put a closed loop on the cash ecosystem inside of retail stores, particularly larger, higher cash usage stores in all regions. And that’s been demonstrated and we’ve released some examples of that in what we’ve done in Europe, particularly where we’ve developed an integrated cash recycling electronic payments, a fully managed service for a fully outsourced solution that allows a retailer to outsource basically their entire POS experience, not just on the electronic side, like you might see with the traditional POS providers, but providing a full closed loop service, both physical and the digital integration in the stores.

And I’d say in that area we’re leading, because – and the way I’d say we’re leading is many of our discussions with customers are one to one discussions that we’re collaborating together and evolving a solution, developing a solution, providing the integration, providing program management, and then of course all the managed services post installation. And that’s really been, I’d say, a next level relationship for us that we’ve been able to develop because of our full visibility and access to the cash ecosystem.

On the AMS side, again globally – speaking globally, I think we’re still in the early innings. I mean, we love where we are. We love the customers we’ve signed, the contracts we’ve had, the networks we’ve deployed. But honestly, we’re in a very – this is a very nascent market. There is still many years of opportunity for ATM owners, particularly financial institutions, to outsource this infrastructure or these systems, these networks.

And I think this is where again, we’re having conversations with customers that of course, involve competition in many cases. But in many cases, we’re also having one-on-one conversations with customers to develop a solution. And again, our unique value proposition is that we’re able to continue to close the entire loop and provide the most synergy of the full value stream.

And the reason for that, and we’ve talked about this before is we occupy and control the largest cost base in the value chain of managing an ATM. And that really is the physical logistics and processing of the physical cash. And so that’s an area where we think we can continue to innovate, leveraging the technology we’ve developed, but also continue to show customers that not only are we the cash logistics provider, but we’re also able to provide a more fulsome solution and provide a closed loop answer to their entire ATM network.

Sure. So our pipeline globally is continues to grow. And the – how that pipeline evolves is typically either an outbound from our team in a local market with our relationships, or an inbound from one of our customers asking for, hey, what do you think? Could you help us with this? And that evolves in many different ways, but the really big decision that a customer makes is when they step into this discovery phase.

And that’s where we really sit down and put pen to paper, both from a financial perspective, but from a technology perspective, and an operations logistics perspective, and build out the proposed solution with the customer. And from that point, that the customer either says yes or no to any and all parts of our offering, but predominantly, what they do is move to a pilot phase, and that might feel like 10 ATMs, 25 ATMs, 100 ATMs, depending on how big the pilot is and how big their estate is.

And we typically bring those online. It’s for fee, it’s not a charity event. But we developed this solution arms length to develop a proof of concept and frankly, proof to them that the solution can deliver all of what we’ve committed to. From that customers, that can take Tobey anywhere from 90 days to a year. And what we have found is the AMS pipeline and AMS contracts are typically longer lead time decisions than the DRS.

And maybe if you have a continuum of time on initial contact to revenue that might – for DRS, on the single ice cream shop or deli, that might be as short as 90 days, where an AMS contract could be as long as a year, two years. And so it just varies, and I think it also varies with where we are in that market. And so where we have existing networks in a market that we’re able to already demonstrate to a customer, we’re helping another customer, it’s easier and faster to bring them online, where if we have – we’re pioneering in a particular market, it’s a little more difficult. It takes a little more time.

I use the example of a small country. I’ve mentioned it before in Jordan. Took us a while to get the first ATM network, but once we did, we now have four more banks that have signed on and are part of our managed services network in the country. And so that’s a good example of how once we get a success, we can parlay that into more success and frankly, more value for the incremental customers.

Yes, absolutely. And I’d say Tobey, while North America is the biggest, and we are happy with the progress, as I mentioned, that pipeline of activity is the same in the other two regions, Latin America and in Europe. And if I think about Europe – if I think about those areas specifically from a CapEx perspective, our CapEx was largely flat the last two years. We don’t expect that to be much different in 2024. We’d love to be in a position where we have so much DRS that we need more infrastructure.

But I think where we sit today, DRS and AMS both give us the opportunity to continue to leverage off our existing asset base and be more productive. Obviously, the more DRS we have, the more opportunity we have to control our own network and frequency. I believe that this is going to continue to be an opportunity for us in the future, and there’s no reason why we don’t think that can’t happen.

I think customers also view this as more and more as a value proposition as well. And so as we hear from existing customers that are converting or new customers that maybe had passed on the service previously, the idea of them not being responsible to us for appointments and for scheduled pickups and fixed logistics networks, I think is also very appealing.

Yes. Good morning. Thank you, everyone for joining us today. We appreciate your support and we look forward to speaking with each of you soon.
