Mark Bertolini
Oscar Health, Inc. (OSCR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Adam. Mark Bertolini here. We'll start with big categories. First, we have enough fixed costs to grow to a much larger size. So fixed cost leverage will be pretty robust. No matter how much we grow, although we anticipate and continue to anticipate that 20% growth year-over-year is achievable. Secondly, we have in our variable operating expense been able to leverage large language models on the back end of the system and just for an extra data bit on our call volumes, we actually handled the call volumes we had this year with 200 less people answering the phone. So we continue to see big operating opportunities on the variable cost side.

We are in the midst of looking at provider contracts, particularly hospital contracts, and we now have a matrix of contracts that we need to get to optimal level from the standpoint of both terms and rates and so we have a list based on renewals and market size where we're going to begin those conversations with our provider partners, not just because we have more market share, but because we have better relationships with them in the way we deal with them day in and day out on utilization management and on reimbursement and paying claims. Scott, anything to add?

Look, I think that we've been experienced SEP for years. We certainly understand the dynamics of how duration factors impact those members. We build that into our price assumptions. This year, we've seen SEP members that have performed, you know, more or less consistent with our historical experience with them. So, nothing for us that has caused us any challenges in terms of onboarding those members.

With respect to 2024, we assumed that we would be growing the SEP membership would come in into the second half of the year and we built that into our guidance for MLR. It's an area that's challenging, certainly, but we've got experience there. We've got, I think a reasonable expectation of how those members are going to perform based on what we've seen through the end of the year and into this year and they have a morbidity profile that is kind of what we're expecting. So, there's always some risk with growth and with new members, but we think that we've built those risks into the guidance that we gave you today.

I would say that rational behaviour was not necessarily in place last year and I would in 2023, open enrolment for 2023, in large part because people have not priced accordingly to how the market works. As you well know, and part of what we found, even when I was with Aetna in the markets is that the minimum loss ratios that were put in place for pricing don't allow you to underprice and then price up business after you get share because you have to give back rebates. And so, this going into with a mindset that we will grow with disciplined pricing is an important piece and we saw some of that this year for 2024 open enrolment where people took their prices up, lost the business and, Georgia is one of those markets.

And when we look at our rates in those markets, we are where everybody else is now pretty much with increases that are in the 8% to 9% range. So, we felt that we go into this with an open eyes and deep understanding of this market over time and we believe that we have priced accordingly and have been disciplined about it; stable and rational pricing.

Sure. Strong retention was the biggest part of our growth, I would say that and also provide stabilization and risk adjustment as we go forward into this year. It was obviously helpful for us last year. We did grow new members in existing markets, Georgia, Florida, Ohio, Tennessee, Iowa and Missouri, but we also outperformed expectations in new markets where we did some service area expansion, Cincinnati, Tennessee and some of the rural markets in Iowa and Georgia.

We definitely have room in the MLR.

I'm going to try to remember all those. So if we miss one and I'm not being, please, please come back. So, when I think about where we might be going from a overall, starting with kind of the MLR, I think there's opportunities there around the PBM, where the PBM actually goes out till 2026 and so we have, a contract where each year we will see benefits and this was the -- first year was the largest step change, but there's continue to be meaningful improvements in that contract over the remaining term. So that is -- that's something that, we can put in the bank and we're pleased with our partnership there with our provider.

And then Steve, probably the last piece on your question on member economics, I would say that we would anticipate that, you know, all of the growth that we're seeing in open enrolment is contribution margin positive. So at this point, growth is great for the bottom line. We also expect to see continued enrolment through the special enrolment period and while those members come at -- we talked about this in the past, with about a 10% higher MLR and there are the durational impacts that we talked about, that's in the first year and then they, look exactly like the rest of OE if we can retain those people.

So, it is certainly the case that depending on when you get those members in the year, the economics can be challenging in the first year, but we built that into the plan. So those are already built into our guidance and we are excited to have the opportunity to add more members through special enrolment period in addition to the success that we've already had in open enrolment.

Well, the last part of your question, Adam, we believe that we have an opportunity to provide services at a different price point that could help folks when and if the enhanced subsidies go away. But going up to the more general level, will they, we had some interesting looks at our data this open enrolment, and in this open enrolment, 63% of new ACA consumers are from red states and 76% during the open enrolment and year-over-year in the ACA, our market growth is in red states.

So I kind of find it hard that the political dynamic that was going on six, eight years ago is going to be the same relative to the Republican Party, going after a group of people that largely are going to be their own constituents. We'll see. We have a planning version on our strategic plan of having it go away and all the things that we would need to do with product in order to make things affordable. Folks in the group we worry about most are the people in the 100% to 200% federal poverty level that have zero premium plans, and would potentially be paying somewhere around $60 or $70 a month. That's the place where we think the impact is, and we're planning against that to find solutions for it. Relative to fixed versus variable, Scott, I'll let you decide.
