Mark Tarr
Encompass Health Corporation (EHC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Joanna, this is Mark. I'll take a shot at this first. We -- as you know, we saw a nice volume growth across all 8 of our geographic regions. And we -- I think there's a number of things. One, we continue to see where we have taken market share from nursing homes. I think that going back to last two years or three years, we've proven ourselves very capable of taking a higher acuity patient and having great outcomes with them. So that is -- has been a primary driver to us. I think that it's no secret that the acute care hospitals have seemed to had strong volumes, which we get the downstream impact from that.

Relative to program mix, it was another quarter of continued growth in our stroke program and other neurological conditions. We did see some pickup on a small base in our orthopedic categories. But nonetheless, we did see a percentage increase in lower extreme drug placements and other orthopedic as well. So, it was very broad-based in terms of our overall growth, and we're confident that we're building a good foundation.

We're actually very pleased with that number in Q4. If you look back at prior year, that was a negative net. And if you think about the period of the year that's extremely difficult to hire new staff it's around the holidays and particularly in Q4. So, our Town acquisition team has been very successful in helping to support the hospitals as well as the new ramp-ups and finding and hiring nurses. We've talked about in past calls, too, that we have a real focus on retention in our hospitals to retain the nurses that we already employ with a particular focus on those that have been hired in the last year or so. So, we're very pleased with the progress that we've made and are hiring of RNs and would accept this year to be another strong year with that.

Mike, we've tried to make sure that our hospitals have stayed at the market in terms of their rates with the market analysis that we have. Once you get behind market, it's awfully difficult to catch up, and it typically costs you more once you get behind and if you had stayed at the market level all along through market adjustments. If you look at between the market adjustments we've done in the last 1.5 years and the new staff that we brought on, there's a pretty high percentage of our overall staff that have had some adjustment or another. So that's part of the logic that we took going into the assumptions for this year.

One final note on labor. It should be noted that our talent acquisition team has helped us open up the vast majority of the de novos in the last couple of years with 0 contract labor at the time of opening. So, it's been a huge support in terms of our ability to take the volume that Doug alluded to and to start off in these markets on the new markets on a good, solid fitting.

No. So we've put a big focus on the neurological categories as a whole for the past several years. I would call out stroke because we think we have a particular strong outcome. We feel like there's a huge demand for stroke rehabilitation. We think we do a really good job in getting these patients back to the community, and we've partnered with the American Stroke Association nationally to help promote the need and education for stroke patients. So, we call it stroke specifically. As Doug noted, we had almost a 5% growth in that last year, and it remains one of our top categories in terms of percentage of total discharges. So, between stroke and other neurological, I would call those out as areas that we see continued opportunities to grow.

You've named a couple of them. We always look at innovations that are out there. Whether that is through the utilization and of this huge amount of data that we've been able to collect from our clinical information system over the years and working with our clinical team on predictive analytics and driving our clinical outcomes. We look at the new technologies that are out there, particularly on the clinical aspects, either for nursing or therapies that will help us assist in treating our patients.

There are a number of them that were working in full this year around dysphagia, helping the patients and they're swallowing difficulties, which is a common issue with stroke patients. We have wage-assisted devices and our gyms that can help our patients in ambulation around. So there on any given year, including 2024, we take access to innovation in a number of different studies, particularly if it enables our staff to get better outcomes or helps them become more efficient.

Joanna, this is Mark. Let me take the latter point. We've not heard any feedback relative to the Home Health transfer role anymore from CMS other than what was discussed last year as they did the RFI. I think -- at that time, the industry made a pretty good case why the home transfer rule is a little bit different when you think about IRFs and the primary point being that home health or an IRF patient is not a substitution of care. And it's actually a normal progression of care for rehabilitation patient.

And I think it was also pointed out that the average length of stay for IRF patients across CMG has been remarkably consistent. In other words, they've not seen it from a perspective that there was a financial mode to reduce average length of stay. And those are all different aspects than if you've looked at other sectors in healthcare, where there have been a transfer rule.

So, we've not heard anything. If there is information or an act included within the proposed rule or make it through the final rule. We'll do what we've done with all the other regulatory changes in our history. We'll evaluate it. We'll digest the new rule. We'll understand it. And we believe we'll adjust accordingly, just like we've done historically with other major changes.

A.J., it's Mark. As it's laid out now, I mean, the initial six months will end at the end of February. And so, it's projected to go from 80 to 85 and then ultimately up to 90. So, we would expect it to go up to 85. I think, certainly, given the affirmation rate that the industry has seen and CMS is seeing it's -- we'll see where that goes from here. As is noted, the five-year demonstration. So, if they take the entire five years, we're not sure. But as you note, if the entire industry is performing quite well, you'd wonder why they would continue on with it.
