Mark Clouse
Campbell Soup Company (CPB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Andrew.

Yes, sure. It's a great question and one that I think, as you would imagine, we probably spent the greatest amount of time really trying to unpack it. And as you point out, as you rightfully point out, it really starts from getting a good understanding of what we're experiencing now.

And I think we've had a couple of quarters where arguably, we've seen consistent across, pretty broad-based across the industry some slowdown and perhaps a little less volume recovery than what many of us might have originally expected. And so really digging into that to understand the drivers, I think, are important for getting the confidence or the conviction in the full year.

As I laid out earlier, we kind of anchored on three things that we see influencing the numbers with kind of variable impact as it relates to timing or sequence through the year. So, the first one and the one perhaps that for many might not have been immediately on the radar screen is this kind of tail end of COVID impact. And I know that's perhaps something we didn't talk a lot about a year ago in fourth quarter.

But as we really took time to kind of step back and compare baselines of our categories, especially some of our, let's call it, less prevalent in the summer categories like soup, you really do see a very tight linkage to where we saw a couple of the surges that occurred in the tail end of fiscal '22 for us and into the first quarter of '23. That is really the tail end of it.

So although we see that as a fairly material impact on a couple of areas, I do think you're going to, by the time you get really into the later part of Q1 and into Q2, we don't see that as much of an impact. And in fairness, I think looking back, it was probably a catalyst for helping us deliver even better elasticities than perhaps anyone really expected at that time.

Although I would still say, even without it, it was still much better elasticities than what history would provide. So I think that one's definitely a transitional one. You can see a start. You can see an end. I think we'll feel that a little bit in Q1. But as we get through the balance of the year, I would not expect that to be a headwind.

I think the second area I talked about is pricing. And that one obviously will be with us throughout the year, but the orders of magnitude will sequentially improve pretty significantly after being at kind of the peak, which is about 16% pricing impact in Q1. And as that moderates through the year and gets better from quarter to quarter, I do expect that impact to become less significant just mathematically.

But I also think that as you're continuing to build and support the brands the way we've been doing it, I think that your volume and the prediction of volumes improving as you get to that kind of more, I would say, normal environment, I think that's going to be one of the catalysts that helps the sequential improvement through the year.

The last one and perhaps the most interesting, just to talk a little bit about is what's the consumer behavior because perhaps at the end of the day, that's going to be the greatest indicator of that recovery. And one of the things that I think has been interesting as we've really dug into this, is this bifurcation between seasonal categories. And as consumers' market baskets are shrinking, what we really see is this kind of two-pronged rationalization.

One, first, prioritizing those categories that are more relevant in the season. So those that are more prevalent in the summer tend to hold up better in the consumer's basket than maybe a soup, for example, where it drops pretty significantly in the summer in household penetration, and we can see that kind of amplified in a little bit of category-to-category comparisons.

The great news is when the seasons move into the fall and into the winter, as I think we all understand kind of where the spikes are for soup in general, that jumps up to a top 10 category based on household penetration in those seasons. And that gives us a lot of conviction that the relevance and the prioritization of that in a shopper's basket will begin to go up. And in fact, even in the more recent trends, although far from perfect, we've started to see some of that improvement occurring.

I mentioned this on the call, one of the things that's quite interesting where snacking has been much steadier and more consistent. Part of that fact is because in every season, snacking is number one or number two as far as rating is a priority or household penetration for consumers. So I do think there is this dynamic where consumers are making trade-offs.

And I think the second part of that is really this dynamic of consumers trying to stretch their dollar. And what I mean by that is we see a migration to categories and purchases that enable consumers to feed a greater number of family members or a greater number of servings.

And so you see things like pasta, rice, pasta sauce for us, our cooking condensed soups hold up and do very, very well, where some of our more single serve, maybe a little bit more individual products have been a little bit more impacted, if you will, by this recent kind of consumer tightening, if you will, that's not unexpected in the -- given the macroeconomic environment and kind of the sustained inflationary period.

I think I expect that to continue. But as inflation perhaps moderates through the year, I would expect some of that pressure or some of that more return to normal to be present across the fiscal year, although I do see very much, especially in the first part of Q1, where we're still in kind of that summer season. But this particular area will continue to impact the business.

But when you put together this kind of cycling of COVID, the moderation of pricing and what I think will be a better position for some of our categories relative to seasonality and priority in the basket along with a bit more expected normalizing of inflation, this is why we see the sequence of the year improving.

And this is why we also think this is not a moment or a structural change to food that requires you to chase volume or share kind of to the bottom, right? So the idea that we're going to need dysfunctional promotion to manage what I just walked through is just not what we're seeing. And that's why the confidence of the year is laid out the way it is.

As far as why were we not more conservative? I think what we've always tried to do is appropriately give you the perspective on where we see ourselves and where we see the business with of course, a little bit of flexibility to deal with whatever the inevitable variability may be. But we feel very good about how the year lays out. And even with a relatively tougher Q1 as we expect most of what you saw in Q4 to be more present in Q1, that sequence and that climb is going to be quite positive.

Remember, too, this is -- I remember when we delivered this imagining, lapping it. But last year Q1, we were 15% up on every metric. So top line, EBIT, EPS, all 15% growth. So our comps in the year are significantly tilted to a favorable first half to back half, which just is another reason as you model and do the math to feel a little better about that sequence.

Yes. Thanks. See you next week.

Yes. So it's a good question, Ken. And there's clearly, I would say, very distinctly different parts of our portfolio as we kind of look at it today. I would certainly say one of the things that has been a standout for us has been our Snacks business. And as much as we talk a lot about the dynamics within Meals & Beverages, I would just say, for 50% of the business, we feel very, very good about how the brands have held up

And although, we still see some pressure on pretzels, where you've got a very distinct driver and reason for that in the acceleration of that category through some new sub-segments, the most -- the majority of our brands and especially our power brands really are positioned well.

And although, we'll cycle some pricing there as well, I feel very good about how we're competitively positioned as it relates to brands like Goldfish or even our Pepperidge Farm cookie business, which we see a great holiday ahead and really have some terrific innovation coming.

Snack Factory has been very strong. Our Kettle potato chips is probably an area where we've seen a little bit more competition. But we know how to play that. We have a great value proposition as it relates to Kettle and Cape Cod and some super innovation there as well. So I would just say from a snack standpoint, and half of our business, we feel really good about how we're positioned.

Then I think as you get into Meals & Beverages, I do think that's probably where we've experienced a little bit more pressure on share. But it is interesting as you kind of fully unpack it. One of the points that I made in my prepared remarks is, for example, on soup, if you were to remove broth as a segment, where we know we're getting a lot more pressure from private label, it's a more commoditized segment.

If you took broth out of that, our share is flat in soup, which is really a testament to the core growth areas I talked about, which represents 70% of that portfolio and where I fully expect to continue to grow and drive positive share as we have over the last several years.

You had brands like Chunky returning to share growth. Pacific continues to do well. Our condensed cooking business has really just been performing extremely well competitively. And even in those categories where private label exists, those differentiations that are within those brands have been quite effective. I think on broth and some of our flankers within soup, which is where arguably we felt some of the greatest pressure, I think those are areas where you will see us be very focused on ensuring that value is protected in particular during key seasons or key holidays.

But we'll make sure that we stay competitive. I think on some of the flankers, the opportunity that I think we have there is really to determine that those value propositions, and I think in some cases, we'll have a good path forward. In others, you may see some rationalization in areas as we really tighten that portfolio for the future.

But as I said, I think the thing that stands out to me is we talk a lot about the soup business, and is that a hindrance or a help. I think unpacking a little bit more of the segmentation helps a lot. When you contain 7% of our sales in the company that are in these more challenged areas and with opportunity to improve, I feel a lot better, and I hope the investors would as well that on the balance of that portfolio, we feel very good.

Pace has been another standout, and we've seen positive share there and really expect that value proposition. It's used heavily in cooking in meals right now, which bodes quite well for Pace. And then Prego is an interesting one, right? We continue to grow as pasta sauce category performs very well. But we know there's this other segment in ultra-distinctive that has really been outsized growth and we can't compete there with Prego. That's not what that brand does. So although I don't love the share impact there, I kind of understand it.

And of course, that's a big catalyst for the Sovos, the potential Sovos acquisition, which I think will be a great complement to our Prego business and give us a lot of conviction going forward. So I think I would start by just saying, I don't think the share performance of the business, when you look at the parts that are most critical, are in a dire position. I think the areas where we do need some work are fairly contained and focused, and I think there's a lot of reasons to believe that where we have strength, we'll continue to drive that going forward.

Bye. Thanks, Ken.

Hi, Peter.

Well, we did a pretty good job laying out the drivers right there, Peter. I mean I think, remember, you've got a wonderfully helpful tailwind in our Snacks business and the margin agenda that we're anticipating there. As we mentioned in the call, we feel terrific about the step change that we made in fiscal '23, getting up over 14% from our starting point back kind of pro forma around the 12% range.

And as we look at '24, we've got a lot of confidence in the initiatives that are there that will keep driving that, and we expect that to be north of 15% as we get into the year. So another important step in our journey to our longer-term margin goals for snacking.

But I think underlying kind of macro across the business, you do have a dynamic where you've got reducing inflation as you sequence through the year, especially as we come off a relatively high peak in '23, you're at low single digits today, our outlook is for low single digits as we go into the year. And arguably, that's front-loaded improving through the year is a big driver for that reason why.

And then I do think with that kind of moderation, you are enabling your productivity and your cost savings to be more incremental and get back to driving margin expansion. And even on our Meals & Beverage business, where we're anticipating more of modest margin improvement, that will be a big factor for that business and why we believe we'll start that journey back to some stronger margins as we get into the, in particular, into the back half of the year.

But I think as you imagine that landscape, that's how we're seeing this margin bridge or progression through the year. And although we are pointing to a tougher Q1, as many of the dynamics in Q4 still are around in Q1, we're not imagining a significant headwind on gross margins or margins that are going to really impact dramatically and then improve as we go. Carrie, did I miss anything in there?

That's a great point, yes.

Yes. I mean that's a great point. I mean if you look at mix for this year, even in this quarter, if you look at especially Meals & beverage. And if you're wondering a little bit the drivers of that margin that we anticipated, but it's certainly significant, about a-third of that is coming from mix, which is really driven by the outsized contribution of foodservice. As we get into Q1, that actually goes away because the recovery of food service was really most pronounced starting right in the beginning of fiscal '23. So that mix benefit as you start to go through the balance of the year will be yet another absence, I would say, of a headwind that we had this year.

Okay. Thanks, Peter.

Hi, Mike.

Yes. So I think on the snack side, and Carrie will do this one together as well. But I would tell you that, I continue to feel very confident in our road map to 17%. I think as far as do we get all the way there in '25, it will depend a little bit, I think, on some of the environmental elements that have been creating a little bit of the challenge that we've seen over the last couple of years.

But I feel very good now with what we put on the board in '23 and what the outlook is for '24. And so I think we're in the hunt. But I'm a little hesitant. I want to see a couple more variables as it relates to inflation and more environmental costs.

One of the things we've talked a little bit about that we've had to try to work our way through is some of the fixed let's call it, fixed inflation like labor has been tougher, more challenging than we originally put into the model. The good news is we found other means in which to continue to drive further productivity.

And so I think we're - although, I see the kind of line of sight, if you will, to '17, probably want to see a couple more of those variables come in to confirm for sure exactly that timing. And I know we owe that back to folks and we're working on that, and we'll provide that in the near future. I think on Meals & Beverages, it's a little bit of a function of kind of cycling out of some of the environmental elements that are there.

I will say one of the things that on Meals & Beverage has been a little tougher in the more recent period is we've been very judicious on pricing relative to inflation, and that's probably put a little more pressure in Q4 as well as, to some degree, in the first part of the year. As inflation moderates through the year, we expect that dynamic to normalize and then we expect to be able to utilize the productivity more incrementally to drive that kind of moderate margin improvement that we're expecting on meals and beverage for the year. So it is a little bit of a dynamic of Meals & Beverage needing to be a little bit more balanced.

I'm not talking about spending back on promo. I'm simply talking about as we talked previously, through our waves of pricing, how to make sure some of our categories like broth and condensed soup, where we know we're going to be a little bit more value-driven how to manage that.

And although that's provided a little bit of short-term pressure, we expect that as that normalizes in '24 and productivity is more incremental to the business, you'll start to see that pivot back and start to see margin recovery there that I know we're expecting and I think will be very helpful for us as you think about the algorithm and the phasing of '24. Anything I missed?

Yes. Okay. Great.

Hi, Jason.

Thank you.

Yes. I think a big part of it, Jason, is that we have definitely seen -- let's take Q4 as an example on Meals & Beverages, and we talked a little bit about this in Q3 as we kind of foreshadowed the fourth quarter. And although fairly consistent to expectations, you have about a third of the impact on Meals & Beverage that is a mix dynamic that we would expect to reverse in the second half.

So, as you see a more dramatic contribution from foodservice and some other lower margin segments that are in the business as well as, as you look at where some of the pressure has been relative to the consumer dynamics I talked about, there's no question that's been a little bit more significant on our soup business, which as you know, has a very good margin architecture. So, mix is a big part of what that dynamic or that swing will be.

The other contributor the other major contribution to the margin headwind has been this dynamic that we really do only expect to see in Q4 and Q1, where we knew that pricing was going to lag a little bit of the tail end of inflation as we made some choices relative to more pricing that we did not take in places like broth and a little bit to some degree in condensed soup.

As the inflation numbers normalize throughout the balance of the year that is going to be a marked difference in margin impact. And then with the significance of a lot of productivity that we've been putting in place, recognizing some of the structural inflation and costs that I talked about will really be landing in the back half of the year. So, I do expect to see outsized margin recovery in the back half.

And I think although you're phasing does illustrate that, I think it's fairly accurate to how we see the year unfolding. But I think the drivers that are inherent in that are able to we can pinpoint those. And for the most part, they're not necessarily executionally-driven or even dramatically related to kind of hope and prayers for the environment. They're pretty mechanical in nature and is why we felt confident in building a profile that has a little bit more of a back-weighted margin improvement as it relates to Meals & Beverage. So, hopefully, that helps give you at least the variables that we're looking at.

Yes, I think you've got the dual impact of greater pressure on higher margin portions of your business while also having a much higher growth contribution from foodservice. I think both of those variables flip in the back half of the year. I think you'll see a stronger relative performance out of our Soup business and higher-margin portions of our business, while also having, as you point out, a more normalized contribution from foodservice. So, I do think it is a little outsized right now as it relates to what we're modeling for the back half of the year.

I think returning to volume growth. Meaningful, I think, is always a little bit of a -- for Soup, yes, I think it will be meaningful growth.