Martin Waters
Victoria's Secret & Co. (VSCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, good question. Obviously, that's very topical at the moment, but It's not a new topic. It's been out there for several months and several quarters, but does seem to be picking up a little bit of momentum lately. First, I think it's important to understand that we do not necessarily recognize any revenue on some of the fees that are being discussed or debated, but certainly our provider does, and that impacts their model. So we've got a long-standing relationship with our partner, and we'll continue to try to work with them, but I think it's important to understand that some of the fees that are being discussed do not directly go into our P&L. It's certainly something that our partner relationship will need to work on now.

Yes, thank you, Simeon. Good questions. I’ll Start with the marketing. We plan to invest marketing dollars at about the same percentage of sales that we did in 2023. So continue to invest in the brand. Essentially that's across the five areas that we talked about at our investor day. So firstly, in terms of customer, really deeply understanding the customer, segmenting the customer file, building data and personalizing. So more and more of our spend is going through personalized marketing, particularly through social media, but also through curated online experiences through the app and on site. Continued investment in our brand focusing on relevance and brand heat, positioning around powerful, confident, sexy on her terms and then supporting product launches.

Our broader category appeal beyond intimates, getting back into sport, all of those initiatives will be supported with marketing dollars. And trying to find ways to go to market that are at the intersection of brand and product and entertainment. And to some extent, the World Tour was a sort of a tiptoe back into that last year. As we hindsight it, I would say we got enormous media coverage, like 17 billion media impressions that were in excess of 80% positive, so that was good. We were part of the narrative about popular culture and that was certainly our intent and it gave us some good assets that we could use in the fourth quarter marketing.

To a large extent, it met our objectives. However, I think about the way that we went to market during the fourth quarter is more of a sequence. World Tour was the start of it, we then had the My Wings, My Way campaign, which was extremely successful and very popular. And then that led into Mariah Carey, which was our best received of all of the work that we did last year. So as I think forward to what will be the next iteration of our flagship marketing events, I think it will be less fashion and more commercial. It'll be less ethereal and more fun. It'll be more of our own product and less of other people's products. And it will be more focused on holiday commercial and building commercial sales into the all-important time of year.

So, I always try to look forward, Simeon, rather than to look backwards. We're excited about what we've got coming forward. The World Tour was a bold and progressive expression of our brand, and it gives us a basis from which to build and continue to move forward.

As it relates to your second question on promotions, our level of promotionality in the fourth quarter was slightly up relative to prior year. We still, as TJ talked about, were able to maintain healthy gross margins, but we did feel the need in a down market in a very competitive environment to lean into promotionality. The first quarter of this year looks about the same with promotions up slightly. We, on a day-to-day basis, are balancing the art of offering newness at full price with being aggressive in our core categories. And I will tell you that it's very much the balance of art and science and it's different by category. In some areas where it's more difficult for us to defend share, like panties, which is a less differentiated merchandise category, we will need to be aggressive and you will see us leaning into promotions as aggressively as we ever have.

In other areas where we've got true differentiation and added value, it's less of a requirement. So that's the skill of what we do, Simeon, and we manage it very carefully on a day-to-day basis and I'm very proud of the team that are doing that work. Thank you for your question. Next question, Fran.

Yes, on consumer behavior, I would say nothing particularly meaningfully different year-over-year. We did see spikes in traffic. So traffic to stores came back at certain peak weeks, and that put pressure on our selling organization to be ready. We did see an increase in browsing traffic, so conversion was down in stores, and some peak times. We saw that our digital business performed slightly better in the quarter than our stores business. We actually picked up some share in digital. That's partly due to us being more efficient with our marketing dollars, partly due to the enhanced digital experiences that we're seeing. So honestly, I think it's more about us than it is about the consumer behavior. So I would say, nothing particularly meaningful.

As we look across the different cohorts of customers behaviors were broadly similar at the higher end of the income bracket as they were at the lower end of the income bracket. As it relates to international, the headline is really about China, where our partnership with Regina Miracle continues to go from strength to strength, working closely with that team on digital experiences, direct to consumer experiences that are working extremely well. I think we're marketing the brand very well in China and we still have a lot of growth still to come.

Across the franchise network, we saw health all around the globe. We're very pleased with our partner operations, getting a store model that enables us to expand. We're going to open 70 to 90 stores this year, so a smaller footprint with a lower capital expense that enables us to get to more customers more quickly. And also embracing digital in the international space, be it operated by us or operated by our partners, a combination of both. All of those factors are driving growth. We also see some opportunity in new markets in Scandinavia, Benelux, Balkans, again both in digital and in stores.

So all across the system, and I didn't mention travel retail. I should mention strength in travel retail as well. So all across the system we see opportunity to continue to grow that business. So well done to the international team. Thank you for the question.

Yes. Thanks, Dana. Let's go to PINK first and then I might ask TJ to comment on the retail, on the Store of the Future question. So in PINK, we identified more on about 15 months ago that the PINK business was under significant pressure. We didn't like the customer that we had developed in the PINK business. We needed to get back to PINK being an on-ramp for Victoria and very clearly targeting a younger consumer, a collegiate age consumer. So we set about rebuilding the brand, the identity of the brand, the categories that we operate in, the way that we go to market, everything about the brand.

Because it was such a big rebuild, we decided to buy very, very conservatively and not swing for the fences. And what we found during the fourth quarter was, we had an increase in the number of customers that came into PINK, so that was good. Our brand equity improved markedly during the quarter. And the perceived worth of the brand was up a touch as well. What we didn't see was awareness, top of mind awareness. We have lost top of mind awareness with that young consumer.
How do we get it back? Well, it all comes down to the product, as you know. And so leading with intimates, being strong in bodysuits, being strong in innerwear, having a really strong and compelling gift assortment, a strong sleepwear assortment, all of those things were positives in the brand. The area that we found toughest is apparel, and I mean sort of outer-based apparel. So we continue to lean into that. We continue to find new ways to go to market. We're particularly pleased with the Going Places campaign with Natalia Bryant. That looks like that it's very positive for us.

So the drag has -- PINK has reduced, but we still have work to do. We're taking it steadily and buying cautiously and giving ourselves opportunity to chase. We're in a better open to buy position right now than we've been at any time in the last three or four years. So we're almost completely open to buy for fall, which we've not been in that position for a while. So really giving ourselves the opportunity to test and learn and then buy aggressively into the things that are working.
TJ, do you want to take the Store of the Future comment?

Great. Thanks, Matt. Thanks for the question. The Body by Victoria launch was our biggest and most successful bra launch in five years. So we talked previously about Love Cloud being a very big initiative for us. The BBV launch was even bigger and even better. Invisible lift technology meets endless comfort, and very much on trend in terms of lighter, thinner memory pads. Plus we had innovation in the online segment of our bra category. We also had a minimizer bra in that assortment which is very innovative and has proved to be very successful and with relatively low level of marketing customers finding it.

Within BBV we have expanded sizes and expanded skin tone coverage and we've also seen success with the new shimmer panty that supported that launch. So kind of all across the franchise, we've seen strength, and we're very pleased with the performance of it. To your point about trends, it definitely supports trends for lighter, more comfort bras. So we feel very pleased with that overall. The challenge that we have is that. while that bra launch has been very successful overall, we haven't been able to lift the overall bra business. So finding a way to unlock great launches and at the same time maintaining the level of sale across the rest of the bra franchises where we're really, really focused.

To your broader question about consumer trends. I think as we look at say the Valentine's Day period what we would observe there is that. we had more success with casual flirty comfort driven merchandise than we did with sort of traditionally overt, more sophisticated, overtly sexy and provocative merchandise. Whether that's a long-term permanent trend or just a short-term remains to be seen. We feel appropriately covered on both of those dimensions. As we talked about before, an important thing for the Victoria brand is that we don't just show up as one way of being sexy, that we're sexy on her terms. And that means that we embrace all aspects of a woman's journey through life and provide better comfort and sport bras than anybody else in the market. So that's how I would respond to the customer trends. TJ?

Thanks.

Hi, Marnie. Thank you for the question and thank you for noticing the newness that there is in store. You know, when our brand is at our best we have abundant newness. We have newness across every category. That's what drives the business. And so, over the last few years, we've been putting in place an innovation pipeline to get back to having multiple bra launches per year. BBV bra launch was probably the most important, because it's our biggest bra franchise and it was overdue and overhaul. All of our bra franchises need an overhaul.

We have to be continually renewing and refreshing. The good news is, and you hinted at it, that when we do that the customer notices. So BBV, biggest and best launch we've had in over four years. The Wink bra customers notice immediate impact. The PINK seamless there, notice. The featherweight max sports bra, notice. So yes, the customer finds the new product and appreciates the new product, and our store's feedback channel tells us straight away when she sees it. The challenge is we've got to get more people into the franchise overall. So that means more relevant marketing. It means targeting our spend to get new people into the file.

And the good news for us is one of the key ways that we have to do that is the loyalty program. Our loyalty program is now up to 26 million people -- over 26 million people. That enables us to be much more surgical in the way that we target so that we can point the appropriate products at the appropriate people. And that means just a more structured marketing investment, a more targeted marketing investment. So I think there's significant reasons to be careful that when we develop the new products that you've referenced and others. We have lots more in the pipeline that we can market them to the right audience in an effective way.

You have a real eagle eye for spotting what's going on in stores, because we have Adore Me in just five stores out of 850. We have about three cabinets in those stores as the owner of the Adore Me brand and we're very, very proud to be the owner of that brand. It's important that we test every aspect of how the consumer responds to the brand. The brand is in growth. It grew in the fourth quarter, it grew in the full year. It's well positioned for 2024. They're in peak marketing right now, building their file for the balance of year, both across Adore Me and Daily Look. And Adore Me continues to expand into new channels of distribution through wholesale and license and so on. And they're doing really, really cool work.

I don't know if you saw their fashion show, which was a great success, embracing inclusivity and diversity. It was the only fashion show event in New York Fashion Week that had shoppable online content. So, we're doing some really cool stuff supported by Gen.AI in that brand. Being part of our stores business is not the main thing at all. That is a digital business. But as the owner of the business, it makes sense that we test every possible way in which our customer will interact with it. So we don't expect to see an enormous amount more of Adore Me in stores, but do expect us to continue to mine for opportunity to work that brand as hard as we possibly can and to embrace it as part of our family and friends going forward.

Yes. I mean, look, if you think about what the different trends of bras have been over the years, the one that we would like to come back the most and the strongest would be the push-up bra because we dominate that part of the market. Our share in push-up is significantly higher than it is in online or in sport or in any other aspect of bras. So yes, that would be great. I don't see that as a structural change right now in the data that I'm looking at. But from your lips to God's ears, if that is a trend, we'll be very, very well positioned to take advantage of it, Marni.

Yes, great. Thanks Warren. Fran, I think we have time for one more question.

Thanks everybody.