Matthew J. Flannery
United Rentals, Inc. (URI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, David. This is Matt. And when you think about that fleet growth, then you'd have to net out of it whatever inflation you had for the replacement. So when we think about the fleet overall, we're thinking about $2.5 billion of sales of original OEC, and maybe almost $3 billion to replace that, depending on what we buy and all that. So you're talking about a 550 of growth. Within that we have cold starts that we are going to support in specialty. Again, we'll continue to invest in the business there. And then to your point, a lot of the major projects, some bolster up some of our products that we know we're going to be using on major projects and just general growth. So we also have some carry over to your point that we'll be able to utilize. So we feel really good about the positioning we have. And while we're talking about CAPEX, we expect it to be a little more normalized cadence from what you've seen in the last couple of years as our partners have repaired their supply chain, probably at about 90% level, almost all the way there.

How that'll turn into fleet productivity, as you saw as we exited this year, we felt all along we needed to work through in 2023, the Ahern acquisition and some really tough comps some time from unusually high time utilizations during COVID. We've now leveled off at a strong level of time historically higher than we were pre COVID in 2019 and we think we can continue that throughout 2024. We think there'll be a positive rate environment. We think the industry is showing good discipline. There's still demand in the markets that we serve and we think that'll be a good guy in the fleet productivity and then mix maybe a little bit of drag off of that. Really only because if you think about the inflation of our cost that might be over the one and a half peg that we put out there, we know it's going to be higher than that, probably more in the two to three range. So when you net that out, we feel good about positive fleet productivity throughout 2024. We don't get into forecasting it but embedded in our guidance is that expectation.

Yeah, sure, I'll touch on the M&A and Ted can talk a little bit about capital allocation. None of this is at the expense of M&A. We're open for business. Obviously, we have a high bar, as always, but the pipeline remains robust. We're always looking at assets that we could be a better owner of, and specifically, any new products that we can add to the system for our customers. So, I mean, if you just think about one turn, even with all the share repurchase and the up dividend and the lower leverage, I mean, one turn is still $7 billion worth of capacity. So, and that's before you add EBITDA for many potential acquisitions that you'd have in. So, this is not at the expense at all. It's opportunity we had to return cash to shareholders and as Ted said in his opening remarks, lower our leverage. Ted, I don't know if you had anything to add.

Absolutely. You can imagine we have these conversations internally. So we feel good about where we are.

Thank you David.

No. No. I think you said it right. Directionally, it will be aligned, but it won't be mathematically exact.

Sure, Jerry. So on the Ahern acquisition, all the integrations fairly complete when we talked about we did the people first, then we went to the fleet and the facilities. And as we have talked about in Q3, that was going to roll through the end of 2023. We're pleased to say that all that work has been done. We'll continue to get efficiencies out of that business as some of those legacy Ahern facilities continue to adopt our processes and our technology, right? You can't stick to 6-inch fire hose at them and have them drink everything at once. So we'll continue to get further improvement in those -- in that business. But as far as separate margin contribution, the egg is pretty scrambled. So these are all blended into our existing district and region networks out there, but we're pleased with what we've seen so far. And specifically pleased about the capacity that we added. From a GFN perspective, I don't think we've been calling that out separately. What I'll say, unless Ted, you have some different data but what I'll say is we've been ahead of schedule really from year one. So when we talked about doubling that business in five years, we expect to achieve that sooner than the five-year mark. I don't know, Ted, have you given any specifics about GFN.

Yes, it's pretty broad. I mean we have different maturity levels. But you could imagine, whether it's a reliable on-site business, right, affordable sensation, some of the additional products that we're adding to our Power HVAC team and the mobile storage, right, as part of that continued footprint. Rollout would be the three largest areas, ironically, not trench. Trench is continuing to get penetration, but don't necessarily need geographic distribution growth for their penetration. So all -- as I said in my opening remarks, all the specialty businesses, all those product lines grew by double-digits in the quarter. So we're really pleased with that continued headroom for growth in specialty.

Thanks Jerry.

So I'll start with, I don't pretend to be an economist, right, or an expert forecaster. But when we think about what the impacts could be of the Fed easing rates, we've seen slower growth in the local market business. We're very pleased that it's still growth. And as we said, pretty broad-based growth in Q4 as we exited the year but not double-digit growth opportunity out there. And that's why you see our guidance as it is. We feel while this transition of maybe that local market pipeline of business starting to be built out and funded, as interest rates lower that's our future growth. As we go forward we're very pleased, and we've been talking about for a while that the five tailwinds that we've been trumping throughout 2023 as a way to hedge against some of that slower growth in the local market has allowed us to come out with 2024 being a growth year.

That's always been our thesis how it plays out, Michael. We're not experts in that, but we do talk to our customers. The majority of our customers surveyed in our customer confidence index continue to feel positive. So I don't want to paint a picture that there's negative growth or that we have problems in the local market. It's just not what it's been for the last couple of years, and we do think it will ramp back up once the Fed takes their actions. The pipeline will take a little while to fill, but we don't really have the ability to forecast how long.

Yes. I would agree. And Ted just said he doesn't want to make sure -- he doesn't want us to be given a five to 10-year future cash flow forecast, and I don't disagree. But I think the way you're thinking about what's been the evolution of the business and the change in the business is something we talked about a while back about driving positive free cash flow through the cycle. And I feel like we've been proving that out. And I agree with Ted's sentiment and the sentiment of your question, we're just not going to forecast that all the way.

Yes, it is a great question. We actually feel really good about where the fleet age is. I think we're technically at -- we're just over 52 months right now. But when you adjust for tanks, mobile storage, some of the longer-lived assets that we've mixed into the fleet, we look at this from a mix perspective, we're back to pre-COVID levels. So we're back to a healthy level of fleet age. It doesn't mean that we still don't want to refresh and keep turning some of the assets. But net-net, we feel really good about where we are and back to pre-COVID levels when you adjust for mix of fleet.

You should think about that our goal as it is, is to exceed that 1.5 target every quarter. Whether we achieve it or not, right, even if you look at our pro forma this past year, which is how we looked at it, we actually did achieve that this past year. So we get -- we didn't as a reported level, but we did from a pro forma, which is how we kind of manage the business. So that's our goal, that's what we'll be marching towards. And we think the end market is conducive to doing that.

Yes. No, I think well said. I think the real tone of why we make the conversation, there's a difference between 46% and 50% flow-through in a transition year, so to say, is not something that would cause us to have an austerity program, right. We're going to run the business as we run it continue to improve the systems that we have, the tools that we have and grow the footprint for future growth. That's really it. If we were in a different environment, we have the playbook, you guys saw a little bit of it during COVID. Then you'd run a different play, and we're nowhere near that world nor do we expect to be for a few years.

Well, I think it will continue to be strong, and I think it will carry a good part of the growth this year, specifically a big part of the mega projects. When you're thinking about the plants we talked about and the on shoring of manufacturing. We saw it play through all the way in Q4, where that was our largest growing vertical that we track in Q4 in the industrial sector, it was industrial manufacturing. We haven't even really touched on LNG nor has it kicked off in a big way yet. That's yet another opportunity in the industrial space. So we feel really good about the industrial end markets. I mean outside of oil and gas and really the upstream which was down. You guys all probably see that in the rig count. That was down in Q4, and we expect to be down next year. Outside of that, we think it's going to continue to be another strong year in the industrial end markets.

Thanks Steve.

Yes. As we've gotten bigger, to be fair, the years -- the year quarters of Q1 and Q4 have to get a little bit bigger, just to be fair to the branches that have to process it and our partners that have to deliver it. So we think more like in that 15% to 20% range is kind of our new norm in Q1. That will still be a down year by the way, I believe. But we're flattish. But the difference is we didn't bring in that load in Q4. So think about the cadence, what we'd say more in that 15% to 20% range in the outside quarters of Q1 and Q4, and it would depend Q4 be the bigger variable to depend on what the year looks like. And then about two thirds of our CAPEX in those middle quarters is kind of the way to look at it without being exact, right, because we couldn't even forecast exactly if we want to do, but that's the way we think about it.

Yes, certainly. Yes. And first of, there's not any skepticism from our perspective. So we're [Multiple Speakers]. No, no, no. These jobs -- because we have more visibility to this because of the planning that's required, frankly, than we do the local market business. So we actually feel really solid about our prospects on the large projects. And I think most of our peers that can participate in that, I think the nationals do as well. And I think you'll continue to hear that commentary. But their projects are ongoing right now. Some of the largest projects we've ever been on. I have gear on them today and did in at least back half 2023, but this is a multiyear tailwind. I know we'll use, for example, people talk, there've been a lot of talk about EVs. There hasn't been an EV cancellation yet. So I think one project was rescoped, a little smaller and one was paused because environmental needs and now is back online.

So we really aren't seeing a few delays for just idiosyncratic reasons, but we're not seeing cancellations at all in the major projects. And then as I mentioned earlier, there's a lot of LNG work that's coming. We think the Infrastructure Bill isn't at risk. That was regardless of what happens with the election. That was bipartisan support fully and more importantly, we really need it as a country. And then the IRA, which is more longer-term, I guess that's the one you could debate, but that's got a longer tail to it and one that hasn't even manifested yet. But the tailwinds that we've been discussing are showing up in our business today, and we expect to for multiple years.

No. We view that as competitive, and it's not something that we will discuss. All I can say is we've been the largest provider of equipment to national accounts and the people that do these type of jobs for many, many, many years, long before mega projects became a new term. So we feel good about our position.

No, I would just add, Nicole, when you think about the -- let's use the recovery rate, right, as a percentage of OEC. As you could see from what we're forecasting that number is coming down off historical highs but still above the mid-50s that we used to talk about. And we do think that as new equipment pricing continued to rise that acts as a bit of an umbrella of coverage. So we don't think we're going all way back to mid-50s nor is that implied in this guidance. So we still think somewhere in between the low 70s where things peaked up to the historical mid-50s is where we think we'll level out.

You covered it. Well said.

So a couple of things. Number one, there's still growth environment, right. That's first and foremost. But the industry has shown discipline, whether you want to say that discipline has caused that of demand because it was a robust demand or the need because of rising equipment prices, but also information so much more information in this latest cycle that we're in versus previously. And people always want to go back to pre-2009 and what happened, it's a different industry now. It's a different world now, but it's definitely a more mature industry. There's more information there. But the need -- and think about it for us, those that probably buys at the best in the industry, I would assume if we see the rising prices, I can't even imagine the industry overall, how anyone would consider that going negative on pricing would even be a reasonable thesis or financially feasible. So we really feel that all these reasons are why we feel good about it and then also, obviously, what we see in our business every day.

Yes, I'll talk to the customer set a little bit and let Ted give you some details on the survey and infrastructure. So when we talk about slowing local market business, it's what we see. When we segment our customers we see that local markets that were growing double digits are growing mid- to low single digits in some places. So when we see that slowing, it's the reality of what we see. The survey is still positive overall, and Ted will get to that, but I didn't want that to be mistaken. And we just think we'll be putting more of our fleet towards the tailwinds and the major projects that we've been discussing that we had historically. Ted, do you want to touch on the survey?

I'd agree. I'd say there's a lot more shovel ready to use your word work ahead, than there's been behind us certainly. So we're in the early innings of this. But I just want to remind everyone we've had growth and even in the fourth quarter, we've had good growth in our infrastructure sector really for the past couple of years plus. And this is something we started focusing on as early as 2017 with the NEF acquisition for those who have been covering us for a while. So we feel good about this. And we think, to your point, in what Ted's comments, more room ahead of us on the infrastructure as far as shovel-ready active work over the next few years.

Very thorough. We are good. Thanks.

Thank you, operator, and thanks to everyone on the call. We appreciate your time, and I'm glad you could join us today. And I'd just remind everyone, you can go to our site, our Q4 investor deck has the latest updates. And as always, Elizabeth is available to answer any of your questions. So stay safe, and I look forward to seeing you all in April. Operator, you can now end the call.