Matt Missad
UFP Industries, Inc. (UFPI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. I think, Ketan, it's kind of tough based on just January results. As I looked at January, kind of gives you a little bit of a [Indiscernible] in the sense that the weather -- there's some weather issues and that's what we're hearing from the customer base. I'd like to think that it's stabilized, but it's always difficult to predict at this point.

Yeah. What I could tell you is I think, each of the segments has good opportunities. I would say, they're not uniform across all areas. As you look at -- the growth on Deckorators, for example, is something we're excited about. We think a rebound in Edge is going to have a really good impact for us. If we move to Packaging, I think there's going to be parts of that, that are going to be challenged, as Mike mentioned, simply because of the amount of manufacturing that's either not happening now or has -- needs to recover in the back half of the year.

If you look at the protective packaging materials, we expect that to remain strong and to continue to grow. So kind of a mixture there. And then if you move along into the construction space, I would tell you that we've outlined what we expect for Site Built to either slightly up, slightly down on housing, and that's really going to help define what we're able to do there. The Factory Built we walked through, again, I think that's kind of aligned with the housing market itself. And then the potential areas for growth, Commercial and Concrete Forming, they both have room to improve. So we would look to see that being better in '24 there.

Thanks, Ketan.

Hey, Kurt.

Yeah. I think that's a really good question, Kurt. What I would tell you is I think, what we're seeing in the marketplace is just a lot of pricing pressure, as we alluded to it from the standpoint of when companies aren't as busy, they tend to take a look at their purchasing and try to drive a little more value there. We still think long term, we can exceed that range. And as we predicted, the first half of the year is going to be a little bit more of a struggle, and the second half will be more of a rebound. So if that tends true, then obviously, that will help us and everyone else in that space. So that's kind of hinging on what happens with the economy.

Yeah. I'm going to say, it's probably more of a cyclical as opposed to a seasonal effect. As you look at it and just to use January as kind of a data point where the market was a little slower that it drives those numbers differently. A year ago, the selling prices were significantly higher. So I think you're going to just kind of see that trend through again, going back to the first half of the year being somewhat sluggish and then picking up in the second half.

Yeah, that's a really good question. I think what -- the way we look at it is we have the Surestone technology, which we're very, very high on, and we see that as having a bright future.

Wood plastic composite certainly has its place in the marketplace. And the comment that I'm making has more do with the amount of capacity that all the wood plastic composite manufacturers have added over the years, and there's a number of smaller participants in the market that I think will have to make some decisions.

And we obviously look at the whole marketplace and try to figure out what makes the most sense. We're comfortable with our position. It was just more of a market observation that I think there's probably too many people in the mix on the WPC side. So that -- we expect that to change.

Thank you, Kurt.

Yeah. I would tell you, I don't think there's anything that jumps off the page at us to say that there's a difference or a divergence, at least at this point. It just seems to be general market conditions.

So the TimberBase, Mike can probably talk about the TimberBase product and what are you seeing so far?

Yeah. That's a great question, Stanley. So what we're looking at, we previously completed some capacity expansions in 2023 that we had announced prior. We're actually accelerating some investments. We mentioned a facility in the Northeast, and we're going to be doing that this year as opposed to it was originally a '25-'26 kind of opportunity. We were pulling it forward because we have seen it ramp quicker, which is terrific. And so we're going to -- when we have the capital, we're going to deploy it, and we expect to have that facility up and running by early 2025.

Yeah. I think we tend to look at it more as a pass-through, Stanley. So whether it's low or higher, we're more concerned with how quickly it moves one direction or the other as opposed to the absolute level of it. So I think what the message -- the takeaway message ought to be is if the market remains low, that probably the sales dollar line is going to be lower.

Good morning.

That's a really fair question, Jay. What I would tell you is it kind of goes with our philosophy. There's going to be certain economic challenges over the next five years, and I certainly am not smart enough to predict when those are going to happen. So we look out ahead and we say five years from now where do we want to be, and we believe that those are very realistic goals for us. There may be bumps on the road getting there over the next five years, and I think the first six months of this year is part of it, but that's not going to deter us from the goal of getting to these targets.

Yeah, that's a really good connection, Kurt. And I think the way I would look at it is our teams have done a great job by bringing together automation, increasing the capacity at existing facilities and in the packaging space, in particular, utilizing more of a hub-and-spoke model where they're able to process a lot more product in the same footprint. And that's due to a lot of different factors, but not the least of which has been the investment in automation and technology.

So what we've actually done is increase the capacity over what it was in '21-'22 without increasing the footprint. So we think we can do just as much volume in a smaller footprint and do it more efficiently. So that's why we feel good about being able to say, hey, we're going to take some things off-line because we don't need them and we'll consolidate them. And that's still part of an ongoing process, almost regardless of what the economy is doing. We have to keep doing that with that technology and innovation spend, and that will continue to help us be a low-cost producer.

Yeah. Our Site Built team has a pretty aggressive expansion plan. So we're going to, again, look to the markets where we in-migration or we see growth as opposed to those areas where people are moving out of. So the Mountain West area is an area that we're focusing on. Again, there's more areas in the Southeast. If you kind of follow the map of housing starts and where they're growing the most, that's where the team is looking at expanding our presence. So we expect to see more of that in '24 and beyond.

Thank you, Kurt.

Thank you again for spending the time with us today. In 2024, we know we're going to have to work smarter and harder to be successful. We will continue to allocate capital wisely, mixing current return to shareholders with growing longer-term value. Whenever we have challenges, I rely on our experienced leaders who have been through many economic cycles.

And like the late Toby Keith, I'd like to think that, although I am not as good as I once was, I am as good once as I ever was.

Fortunately, I'm surrounded by our great team of leaders and teammates who with their incredible talent will continue to drive success and make it better in 2024. Thanks, and have a great day.
