Matt Murphy
Marvell Technology, Inc. (MRVL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks Ross for the question. We've seen the business conditions continue to weaken, I'd say, in the last couple of months, the I'd say the breadth and some of the steepness of the decline. We've continued to see -- we had thought that storage was going to kind of bottom out. Last quarter, it's down again.

There are some green shoots there just given what we see in terms of end customer stock levels coming down, and we believe that throughout the year, that's going to improve. But I'd say just, generally, in the storage area broadly and then in the data center, as you can see from our guidance. not only in storage, but a little bit broader. The inventory correction is still going on.

At the same time, I think what's happened in the wireless business in 5G, that's continued to be very resilient and growing, which is a positive as automotive as well continues to be very strong for us, and we see that as a growing business again this year. That's on a great upward trajectory.

So, a lot of moving pieces, Ross, but I'd say the things that were weaker a quarter ago have continued to weaken a little bit more. And then the areas where we had some optimism, those have continued to do better. It's really interesting how these various end markets are kind of moving at different times.

But when you add it all up, basically, and you look out over the next few quarters, we do see growth in the second quarter and then as a result of really what we believe will be the inventory digestion and the normalization in the back half plus continued strength in things like 5G and automotive and then also our cloud optimized ramp.

And in theory, some of the China business should come back, we're starting to be optimistic about the second half relative to the recovery. So that's some of the moving pieces, and I agree, it's -- in the infrastructure business, this doesn't move up and down typically as much as, say, a consumer business. So it started in October. We're still going through the journey here in the January and April quarters, and then we see a recovery in the second half.

Sure. Yes. No problem, Vivek. We'll treat it as one integrated question. So let me start with the cloud optimized ramp. As I said in my prepared remarks, and you can see sort of what's happening in the data center area, there is some delay, and there's some prioritization within those companies on how they're going to deploy. We feel very good overall about the programs and the lifetime revenue of those programs, but they have, in aggregate, shifted out by a couple of quarters.

So if you just assume that the plan for $400 million this year was more back-end loaded as those ramped then the effect of that pushing out by a couple of quarters, we think it probably takes it down by about half. We don't know quite yet exactly, but just to give you a big round numbers, I think that's a safe assumption for now.

The other question was around what does the second half recovery look like. I think it's too early to call it specifically at this point. I mean we're still seeing a lot of volatility in the business, as you can see from our first quarter guide. But when we step back and look at it from 30,000 feet and we also take the broad indicators from our customers, we do expect it as we said, to start growing from Q2 and beyond. The question is how big is the recovery and what comes back. So it's a little bit hard to call precisely where that's going to be at this juncture.

And then on gross margins, again, it really comes down to the mix. Historically, if you look, we've -- the company has actually had pretty stable gross margins. I mean, they've moved around a little bit, but in general, that's been a fairly predictable thing. You can see based on this downturn we're going through just the volatility that's come in relative to the mix. So we see that improving in the second half.

Again, I think it's too early to call the exact trajectory. So just in the abundance of being prudent here, we're calling it getting up to the lower end of the range. But again, it's highly dependent on mix, product ramps and what the end markets do. This is the best we know at this time.

Yes. Sure. Yes, C. J., sure, go ahead. I'll let Willem start off, and then I can add to it as appropriate. Great question.

Hey Joe, let me add a couple of things because it's a very good question. So first, fully agree with everything Willem said in the way he characterized it, which is fundamentally that we had some accretive to gross margin product lines declined fairly significantly and fairly rapidly. And at the same time, we're seeing strong growth in product lines that are less than the corporate average, and it's moved the gross margin much more significantly than anything we've experienced in some time.

And maybe just to take it from the top on a bigger picture for a second. Our custom business came from the purchase of Avera back in 2019. And we knew at that time that was going to be a lower gross margin business and that was fine. And it's actually grown really well. The team has executed well. It's been a great growth driver for us. And we've been able to -- and in fact, if you look, it's probably grown faster than the overall Marvell portfolio.

But at the same time, call it, from 2020 to now, we've actually been able to increase and drive Marvell's gross margins up over that timeframe. So, we've had a balanced portfolio, different product lines and diversified product lines that have a wide range of gross margins that blend to something that's been very, very healthy and in general, been very predictable.

What was -- the change was really the steepness and the breadth of the inventory correction we're dealing with. And so you have these growth drivers that are still kicking in on ASIC. And then also carrier, as you point out, has always been a lower gross margin business for us. We've been very transparent about that. Those are actually continuing to grow through this cycle quite significantly.

And then again, our highest margin product lines for various reasons, whether it's channel inventory correction or just customers doing their own inventory burn, those have come down a lot.

So, that's why we think and we look at the numbers, over the next few quarters, that should start to normalize again. So, I hope that's helpful to provide both the detail and then the bigger picture, Joe.

Yes.

Sure. So, for next year, I'd say my high-level answer is it's too early to call. And you kind of nailed it. I mean some of the programs are tracking as we thought, some even might be a little bit ahead. Some have pushed out more than we thought. So, the net effect for this year, we're just trying to call it as we see it today on the shift.

Now, for next year, I don't know that it just keeps sliding. I think some of these are going to ramp at their own pace. And quite frankly, it's too early to call it and to understand what's going to happen four or five quarters from now, given how much is changing in the near term. I guess I'm reticent to try to provide any more precision there. I mean, I think if you want to be conservative, you could just sort of keep shifting it out a little bit, but I think there's still a call option for growth for Marvell next year in this area, but we have to see how these programs play out.

And I think on the question of the margins, it really depends on the program. They're not all the same and some are more custom in nature that would be more traditional profile. Some are higher. But we still see the blend for the overall company returning back to its towards the low end of the range this year, and then we're going to keep driving it towards our long-term model in the next year.

So at this point, I think it's too early to call and kind of infer what that the gross margins of those programs would be and then when they ramp versus what's going to happen next year. So as we get through the year, I think, Matt, we can give you more precision on that. But we're not changing our long-term growth model at this point in terms of the financial model, whether it's gross margins or long-term revenue growth and operating margins.

Sure. Yes, a couple of things that are going on. I think as I said, one, because that business and team has done really well in terms of overall ASIC growth, those programs tend to still be ramping. So there's not a lot of inventory that's been built that's been part of the growth. So that would explain some of it.

But I'd also note that the breadth of the engagements we have in this traditional custom area, our data center, but they're also in carrier and they're also in enterprise. And so as Willem indicated, even within the enterprise segment, we've had some mix shift there just with the traditional merchant products, which are much higher gross margin coming down and then some of the ASIC stuff ramping up. So again, I think this is all going to get normalized over time. But certainly, because of the growth in that area, it's proven to be very resilient.

And I think some of it is maybe because sure, we've gotten NRE. You get -- I think there's just -- historically, that team has had a -- those -- that type of business has been one that's been, I think, a little bit easier to plan. It seems to be a little bit more predictable, I don't know. But I think in general, it's mostly because they're new programs ramping.

Sorry, say that again?

No. I mean, again, I wouldn't say that's a major factor. I mean, again, some of the cloud optimized programs that we talked about, those are custom.

But in the short term, the data center impact has really been, again, more driven by storage and the impact on the rest of the portfolio, whether it be custom or optics, or whatever hasn't been as pronounced, but it's still going through its own correction.

Sure. Maybe, I'll break it into two pieces. So let's go back to -- because I think there's two separate issues we're talking about. So last quarter, when we signaled the weakness in data center, it was very pronounced in storage.

And we also said we were starting to see signs of inventory correction on the rest of the portfolio, but it was more muted. And at that time, our expectation was that storage most likely was going to at least flat now, maybe go down a little bit more. And then there'll be, again, a continued more mild correction.

I think what's happened is, the data center -- the storage in data centers continue to need more time to correct. So that's declined again in the Q1 guide. And then, I would say, the rest of the portfolio has also -- is now seeing more of a correction needed than we thought last quarter.

Okay. So that's in the short term right now, Blayne. So, yes, storage, down a little bit more and then the rest of the portfolio, including those other product lines you mentioned, in aggregate. I mean, within underneath, some of them are moving up and down, but the net effect is that there is an inventory correction going on in data center across the portfolio.

Independent of that, we -- is a separate issue. We were -- we have been anticipating a ramp of our cloud optimized design wins, which have been gathered over the last few years. That's still going to happen this year, but it's been -- some of it's been pushed out by a couple of quarters.

So we still see that kicking in at the end of the year and adding to growth. But that's sort of separate than any inventory correction. That's just program execution by our customers, timing of their ramps, et cetera.

And then on the third point, which is just, all we were pointing out on the architecture stuff was that, as we see the growth in AI-based systems and AI-based clusters and AI-centric data centers, we think longer term, I mean, that's now outside the window we're talking about here, whether it's this year or next year, that, that's going to be a significant growth trend and that's going to require both cloud-optimized silicon as well as our high-speed optics. So I think three pieces to it, short term, medium term and long term.

Very dynamic overall, Blayne, I guess, that's the punch line.

Yes.

Yeah. Hey Chris, there's a couple of challenges there. So one is there's a very high level of customer sensitivity on the nature of these programs. These are all NDA based. They don't really want us discussing those. Ideally, over time, maybe we can get something more public out there, but until my customers give you the go ahead, I'm not going to do it. All I'd say is just in general, maybe to try to be helpful; it's really not much storage in there. This is really more custom compute, custom networking, accelerators, offload that type of thing. That would be the bulk of it, I would say, those types of applications.

And as we go along, Chris, I think we get closer to these product ramps and things, I'm obviously hoping for our investors, we can continue to provide more transparency as these things materialize, but it's a bit early to talk about that mix. And I'd prefer to do that as we got closer

I would love your questions, Chris. Go ahead.

Okay. Maybe just real high-level answer to both of those, I think on the AI one, I think that is and will be an opportunity for custom and for cloud-optimized applications. I think that's a real thing, meaning people will want to use things that are merchant. They want to use some of their own special things and probably in combination. So I think that's an opportunity that's part of the potential.

And then as far as the long-term peak revenue from those, the wins, $400 million to $800 million, yeah, I think we said when we won them, it would keep going because typically, you don't hit peak until many years into the ramp. So with the design wins intact, the $800 million becomes larger over time.

How big that is? I think it's too early to call. But certainly, it would exceed the $800 million on an annual basis just because really, that was our view at the time of the year one, year two ramp would look something like that.

Yeah.

Yes, I think at this point, Karl, you're right. I mean we -- part of the inventory digestion we're seeing is our PAM products that sell to the optical module guys, and that's a business where, again, we're kind of one step back in the supply chain. So, we would see that and we are seeing that and feeling it.

When exactly that recovers, which quarter, it's going to happen in the next few quarters. The question is next -- this quarter, next quarter or the quarter after, but it's in that probably that timeframe because the underlying demand is still strong.

And then I think your other question was on -- and then, of course, the headwind we face now becomes a tailwind in the second half, if that's the case.

I think your other question, was it on the 400-gig ZR or was it on the 400-gig inside data center PAM--?

Yes, I mean, we tend to think of the upgrade cycle as quite frankly a multiyear rollout, right? We had a very strong year last year, and it's a blend of products, right, from 200, 400, 800 inside data center, 400 ZR between data centers and that 1.6T announced. So, I'd say that the demand and the shift to PAM continues at a very strong rate.

Again, we have some inventory correction in the first half. That's more of a module-related issue. And again, the slope of the hyperscale cloud guys revenue growth or CapEx growth kind of dropping, but not declining just not at the same rate of acceleration. So, we think all that works its way through and end consumption continues to grow very strongly last year, this year, and the year after.

Sure. Yes. No. So, it's an exciting time for optics at this point given we've got OFC coming up next week. Yes, on the first one, in general, we're agnostic to both of those. We tend to just partner closely with the customers and design the solutions they need. So, it's the fundamental IP that really matters.

As it relates to the disruptive technologies that are lurking around out there, I think that's been the history of optics. Our view is pluggables is going to be the high-volume de facto standard for many years to come. And certainly, we're encouraged by showing demonstrations of our new product at 1.6T, you had OFC, there's real people building systems around this. And of course, the ramp last year of 800 gig gives us confidence under the ramp of 1.6T. So we're paying attention to all of it, Quinn, I would say.

We've got a really excellent team that understands the trade-offs and understands the various architectures. But right now, we feel very confident in our approach and our solution set. And I think coupled with our switch platform, which has now also been announced, it's really a nice combination of the assets of Marvell plus Inphi plus Innovium, all coming together in a single platform. So more to come on that. And certainly, we're happy to debrief with you and the rest of the team at and after OFC. I think there's going to be a lot of activity there.

Sure. Yes. No, I think Srini, I think the big issue, especially with maybe some of the more larger incumbent players that have large carrier communications businesses, especially in the wireless area, they tend to be -- have a combination of some legacy, let's call it, like 4G LTE type of solutions, and then they've got new 5G chips that are ramping up, and then there's some mix of the two. But as you can see with carrier spending, the bulk of it in wireless is just pretty much all going to 5G at this point. And so from a Marvell perspective, we had very little legacy before on the older standard and 5G is really where all the content gains rolled in. So that's continued to be a nice growth driver for us as a result.

And I'd say on top of that, you've been around the block enough to see this as well, I mean carrier tends to be a very lumpy business. So it doesn't really historically ever move in a very linear fashion that tends to have be a little bursty at times. And certainly, we're happy with the growth we're seeing, and we think that that's -- overall, this year is going to be a growth year for us in 5G. But certainly, it can be a little bit lumpy. But I would say that this is not something that overall is kind of going according to plan in terms of the designs we won, what the content we could capture would be.

And finally, if you just look and we said it in the prepared remarks, last year, we crossed the $600 million mark in 5G, which was a bogey we had set several years ago. We haven’t time bounded by the way, like it's going to be in this exact year, this exact four quarters. We had left it a little bit open, but we're pretty happy that really just a few years after we talked about that goal, we were able to achieve it last year. So yes, there's some bright spots for sure, in the Marvell portfolio. 5G is one of them and obviously, automotives and other, and there's some good things going on. We just have to work through the issues in some of the other end markets.

And with that, I think, Ashish, is that our last question?

Yes. Perfect. Well, I appreciate everybody's time on the call today. When I look back at our last fiscal year, it was a great success for Marvell. I think it -- and I was reflecting back, looking at where we were back, let's say, in 2020, during the pandemic, we were in the process of combining with Inphi and I sort of look a few years later, and I think in fiscal 2023, we -- ourselves, Inphi and also, by the way, the Innovium team we brought in, really everybody executed extremely well. It was very, very strong growth, very strong margins, great growth overall.

Certainly, we're going through, now after several years of extremely strong growth, a correction in inventory, that's more pronounced in some markets than others. We're managing through that very prudently and expeditiously and doing that also in a partnership model with our customers, to where we're trying to understand their real demand and get back to a point where we're shipping back to real demand.

At this point, we believe we're shipping below consumption of Marvell products. And so, we want to get back there. And when we do that, it will also lead to the increase in recovery back in the gross margin profile. And then we can have all of our new wins that we've gotten and all the hard work, our sales team, business unit team has done over the last few years, driving our design win funnel to recognize that growth.

So, I'd say, despite the short-term issues, we think very long term at Marvell, okay? I mean, I'm entering my seventh year as -- actually, about to complete my seventh year as CEO. The prospects for this company are tremendous. We have conviction in our end markets and the long-term opportunity. And the R&D investment that's needed to really execute the programs our customers want to is right in front of us.

We have an opportunity, I think, to really reassess and make sure that we're focused and laser focused on the best opportunities. I think we've made capital allocation from day one, a strategic priority for Marvell.

And I believe, we can come through this cycle much -- as a much stronger company with our growth prospects intact and actually have a better long-term opportunity doing really key programs for our customers with the best ROI.

So we're going through that whole process now, as we do always, and I feel very good about the future of the company. So appreciate the time today, everybody, and look forward to catching up post earnings.