Matthew Pine
Xylem Inc. (XYL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, good morning, Deane.

Great, thanks, Deane. First, I want to just acknowledge the team's Q4 and full-year performance during really a transformational year for Xylem. We had the Evoqua combination, we announced that in January, followed by the Idrica partnership. And then obviously we had a leadership change, all that while dealing with a lot of macro challenges out there around the globe. So, the team's done an incredible job staying focused. I'm really humbled and excited to lead Xylem into the next chapter. We've built, as I've said before, an incredible platform over the past decade. If you look back six or seven years ago, half the company did not even exist, so a lot of really good momentum there.

And from my perspective, we're in a very unique position with our platform leadership of this 10-year journey, to have visibility across the water value chain. And this really enables us to provide holistic kind of optimized solutions to our customers. And moving forward, we're going to continue to build on that platform. As COO last year, I did lead the strategic planning process at Xylem. So, we have, I'd say, really strong strategic continuity as we transition this year. And I've talked about three strategic execution priorities that we're focused on. Number one, we have to deliver the Evoqua value capture, that's first and foremost. That's the transformational deal that we did last year.

Number two, is -- and you hit on it, is we've got to get after margin expansion acceleration. And we're going to do that through productivity and continuing to drive operational excellence through the business. And then lastly, scaling our services business enabled by digital, which we'll talk probably later in the call about the WSS segment for 2024 and its ability to help us do that. One thing I'd mention that we don't talk a lot, it's kind of the soft side, and that's on culture. As we bring two large companies together, culture is really important. And we've put a lot of focus in that area. We call it high-impact culture. And there's behaviors to drive alignment around our culture.

And those behaviors are, first of all, to have our people be inspired to innovate. We don't want people to feel a fear of failure. We want them to innovate, and that's going to drive the next cash flows and top line growth in the company. The second is we want them to be empowered to lead, and empowered in the business. And then thirdly, and most importantly, we want them to be accountable to deliver. And so, those are things we're really pushing the organization on get around that'll, I think, help us going forward. Maybe the last comment I would make is we have a call to action in the company that we've been working on over the past few months, and that's we want to simplify water.

And what that means is really bridging our aspiration, which is Let's Solve Water, which everybody knows our tagline, to our strategic execution priorities, which is really the what we're going to focus on. So, that's really the rallying cry in the organization, and that's what we're going to be focused in 2024.

Yes. And maybe a little bit of color on revenue synergies, Deane. I am proud of the team. In Q4, we completed the APT integration to water infrastructure, which was a big deal. We've appointed regional synergy leads for the revenue capture around the globe, and incentives are in place to drive that execution. And one thing we've been really focused on is training our sales teams as well as our service teams.

And as you know, in December, we announced the creation of the WSS segment for 2024, and a few comments there. Number one, we feel it's going to accelerate our synergies both on the cost side as well as the revenue side, which is where we're focused the most. One thing that maybe is not as intuitive, I do think it's going to help us with technician utilization, so we can leverage our technicians across the broader portfolio and also provide better career-pathing for them long-term, as well as leveraging technology. And then, the big thing it does for us, it really helps us leverage and enable the international expansion of WSS going forward in 2024, like I said, internationally.

And then the most important thing, it makes it easier for our customers, because at the end of the day, it's about customer focus. And our customers, instead of picking up the phone to pick make four phone calls they can make one to Xylem to solve their biggest problems.

Good morning, Mike.

Yes, I could start this out. I mean, on the CapEx front, we've seen continued momentum there. For us, the proxy is our Treatment business. Orders were very strong both in Q4 and the full-year, up double-digits. And so, that gives us a lot of confidence. And that number is not only just in the U.S, that's a global number. So, every region is performing very well in treatment. So, from a CapEx perspective, we haven't seen any pullback or any concern there. And obviously, a big part of our focus in our portfolio in utilities is focused on the OpEx side, and that's about 75% of the revenue and that remains pretty strong.

And it's also we've talked about buoyed, especially the long-term. It's not going to be this year or even in the next year, but over the next five to seven years, it's buoyed by regulation globally, whether that's in the U.S. with the Infrastructure Bill, which Includes PFAS funding or if you get into Europe with The Recovery and Resilience Act and then the AMP cycle in the U.K., that gives us a lot of confidence that we'll continue to see those markets do well.

I'd say, industrially it's a little bit of a mixed bag on the new segment WSS, which is a Legacy ISS business, which contains assessment services and dewatering now. We're seeing strong momentum there, especially in power, life sciences, microelectronics, we're seeing a lot of bid activity there and we feel good about that.

We've seen a little bit of lumpiness in the Applied Water end markets, especially resi. Some of that is just due to coming out of the pandemic where people were investing their discretionary income and upgrading their houses and also weather has played some of our role and that is a lot of our resi products are applied into Ag applications. And so, we've seen some lumpiness there in the U.S. and a little bit in Western Europe. So, that's a little bit of the view of the landscape.

Yes. Mike, maybe I'll take that one. So, price expectations for next year are going to ramp down versus the capture that we experienced in 2023, will be a little over a point. That's still significantly higher than pre-pandemic pricing, yes, but it is an opportunity as we look forward, as we calibrate and hone in the skills to continue to capture the value for our products across the portfolio. Obviously, that one point plus varies across the different segments with M&CS and WSS going forward, probably stronger price capture opportunities. And then, 80/20, I think will be up as we roll out opportunities within AWS as they've done some additional analytics and we look for just a better pricing methodology and capture on some of the longer tail customers that we have.

Obviously, we're leveraging price as one of our components to offset inflation. The team does a really good job driving operational productivity as a second lever to offset inflation. So, we're going to manage price and material costs and stay positive. Obviously, that will compress a little bit next year as pricing goes down, but also our expectations relative to inflation will be price material cost positive and then look for productivity to really enhance our margins as we move forward.

Hey, good morning, Scott.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Scott. China for us now with a new combination of the company is about mid- single-digit in terms of our revenue. With over 50% of that being water infrastructure from an exposure standpoint, largely tied to public utilities, we've seen pretty decent orders there. Q4 orders were up 11%, full-year up 10%. On the revenue side, we were up on a full-year about 2% low single-digits. But if you look back on a two year stack, we're down mid-single-digits in China. So, the backlog is building, but we haven't seen that convert to revenue yet. Things continue to slide to the right in terms of funding. I think if you read the news, you continue to see the government's intervention in the economy there and that's taking some of the funds away from investing in some of the infrastructure. But we believe that's more of a short-term issue. Across the utilities exposure, we continue to see again a healthy pipeline and we'll continue to monitor that funding.

I would say, on the industrial side, it's a little bit of a similar demand environment and that's held up a little bit more resilient, to be honest over utilities. And the last thing I would say with China, overall, we expect China to be roughly flat in 2024 for the business.

Thanks. It's a good question. We closed out 2023 very strong following the close of our largest transformational deal in our history. And so, one of the things we're laser focused on is making sure that we integrate Evoqua well and we get the value capture in the near-term.

To your point, we do have a strong M&A pipeline, and the structure of the Evoqua deal allows us flexibility with a strong balance sheet. The short-term focus, Scott is going to be to focus on small to medium bolt-ons. Evoqua, we can fairly ring fence within the business, but there's other parts of the portfolio where we do want to continue to be inquisitive, with again with small to medium bolt-ons. And we'll continue our disciplined approach, and we're evaluating our longer term capital allocation framework, and we'll share more about that in Investor Day in May.

Good morning, Andy.

Yes, I think again, a lot of that is not changed from what we've said in the past. It's just, I think, being balanced in our approach and with a watchful eye to China. We've got that flat year-over-year, but there could be some potential headwinds there.

And also with Applied Water, which is some of that cyclicality and timing as we think about that, Andy. So, from a long-term framework, none of that's changed. It's just really more thinking about in the context of 2024 and, thinking about going out with a balanced approach. We do have a lot of healthy demand across our largest end markets. When you look at the year from a seasonality standpoint, it's normalized. There's no change in terms of the seasonality of our business and how we ramp from Q1 through the balance of the year.

I think the thing I'd leave you with too, is our margin guide reflects low 40s pro forma incrementals. And so, we feel really, really strong about the margin that we're delivering as well in the growth.

Hey, good morning, Nathan.

Hey, Nate, I'll take it. It's Matthew. Yes, we're making good progress on the past view backlog. If you remember, we started 2023 around 30% past due. We exited at 20. And we feel that we're going to get through the bulk of the past due backlog in 2024. Some of that may stray into '25. But for the most part, we feel pretty confident that we'll get through the past due backlog in 2024 with, again, with a little bit of carryover into '25. And so, really from a bottleneck standpoint, it really just comes down to our customers' ability to go out and execute the deployments.

Chip supply is flowing. We've made investments over the past few years in our capacity. So, there's no capacity limitations from our point of view internally here at Xylem in our four walls.

Hey, good morning, Joe.

Yes, I mean, I've been pretty bullish on this. You've heard me talk about being the aggregator of data in the utilities, much like, folks are in the building management world or in the residential home. We believe we have the capabilities through this partnership to be able to be the leader in aggregating utility data. We're off to a really good start. We only had about six months under our belt last year once we got the combination closed. The teams have made great progress globally and we built a significant pipeline.

And one of the things I've talked about is, it's one thing is to get the platform in play at the utility, but it's about building on the applications as well as pulling through our core products. So, a little bit of a land and expand is how I would frame it. Get the platform in place, help them optimize their water networks with our applications as well as pulling through our products like AMI, our treatment products, et cetera. So, we've had some significant wins. Some of those I've highlighted on prior calls. We continue to have wins and build momentum.

Like I said, and it's not a specific region, it's across the world, whether that's in the U.K., Italy. We just won a big deal in the Middle East, which is for a new city with fully digitizing their water management system with this platform. And I've talked in the past about some of the deals in Spain and the U.S. we've done, in terms of putting the platform in and being able to sell AMI deals as well as treatment products. So, I think it can be a big opportunity for us. Obviously, we'll give you a lot more color as we as we get closer to May 30th at our Investor Day. But we're really bullish on the partnership.

Yes, that's kind of a shorter to medium term objective, and we've already had some wins. We just had one in South Africa, actually, where we took the capital from the legacy of local business through the legacies island business in South Africa. So, we were able to execute and deploy that capital into an industrial application without really having to have service, folks on the ground and infrastructure.

So, those are things that we're focused on kind of in the short to medium term is leveraging the product side and really the capital side of the legacy of local business through those island channels, both in the U.S. as well as internationally. So, we are all starting to see progress there.

Yes, I just want to thank everybody for joining our call today, and for your interest in Xylem. We look forward to speaking again in early May, followed by our Investor Day on May 30, where we're going to provide more details on our long-term outlook. Take care, and make it a great day.

