Matthew Wilson
Light & Wonder, Inc. (LNW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Hi, Barry. Matt Wilson. We anticipated that question. First of all, for the Light & Wonder employees on the line, congratulations. What a fantastic quarter and a fantastic year. I think when we started off on this journey May of '22, we put in our Investor Day targets out the $1.4 billion. It necessitated a 15% CAGR to get us there.

We just closed the 2023 with a 22% growth rate of the AEBITDA line, which was very impressive from my vantage point. I think one of the equally impressive things was all three of our businesses grew double digit. So the portfolio of businesses we have really validates the strategic decisions that we made to focus the organization around content. I think we have in place the talent, the investments, and the product pipeline to continue this pathway to the $1.4 billion. We've just kind of recalibrated our strategic plan and feel very confident we can get to the $1.4 billion.

I think this team is also doing a fantastic job just around cost optimization. I think they're equally as focused on sustainable growth as they are in efficient growth. So lots of pathways to get us there. And we feel like with the year we just had and the quarter we just had, great momentum leading into the remaining years of that strategic plan. But, Olivery, you may want to add some detail.

Yes. I think we put together this organization of businesses that is a growth engine and will continue to be a growth engine up beyond the 2025 time frame. We obviously haven't put a target out yet. We'll come back to investors probably in the next few quarters and restate where we go beyond 2025. At the moment, we're laser focused on getting to that number, which there wasn't a lot of conviction for in the market a couple of years ago. But there is growing sentiment that it's an achievable set of targets. So yes, not guiding to anything beyond 2025, but we'll reconvene with the investor base soon enough.

Yes, thanks, Chad. I think come the industry seems to be on solid footing. I think we're seeing healthy player trends across all of our end markets. I think we did see some isolated softness in January in the US land-based market in certain areas. I think that was really attributed to the weather. I think that's a one-time event that we cycled over.

But aside from that really healthy end markets. I think one of the data points is uniquely interesting to us is the Eilers survey from Q4 and looking at specifically purchase intentions. So it does look like in that number forward-looking purchase intentions by casino operators in North America are up sequentially and year on year, which I think is very encouraging.

But there was also a nice pickup in terms of their intentions to allocate this year to Light & Wonder. So I think the end markets are looking healthy. We stay focused on controlling the controllables, build great product, and deliver great service to our customers, and we'll win as a consequence of that.

Yes, great. Thanks, David. Yes, this is the product we're really excited about. We debuted this at the AG show back in August, subsequently went to market in Australia. Very quickly went to number one, two, three, and four in the Australian market. It has really been dominating the New South Wales market. It was now in Queensland and Victoria. It's gone very well across all of those markets.

So kudos to the team down there that's built this market-leading product. We're really excited about taking it to all of our markets, not just gaming, but taking it to SciPlay and also taking it to iGaming. The launch in the US is imminent. So it's this quarter, next quarter type rollout event. Pipeline is building nicely.

But I think importantly, we've got a real diverse set of product that's driving interest from from operators. I think again, pointing back to the Eilers survey, we had a really nice release last week with a diverse set of games loading up the chart. So really encouraged by that and the teams across the globe, not just the Dragon Train team who we're really proud of, but the entire R&D organization.

You can just really start to see the fruits of the labor that's gone into turning the product strategy around, showing up on the scoreboard in the Eilers result and that ultimately will sharpen the scoreboard from a financial perspective. So Yes, launch is imminent in the US and will go across all of our channels and ee're very excited about that product.

Yes. Hi, Rohan, and everyone down under. Yes, the adjacencies opportunities a big theme of the gaming story here in terms of growth over the next few quarters and few years. I would say it's a share-taker strategy. These are markets that we've been delivering exactly 0% share in for the last five years. And so every incremental order we get in these adjacencies is naturally share gain.

So Yes, like you said, our sales have been a great opportunity for us. We're a market leader in that space now. Our product that we've rolled out is the best performing in that region, which is exciting. Yes, and we should see subsequent orders coming off the back of that introductory. We announced the Loto-Québec opportunity. They've been a great partner of ours for years. So this is expanding that partnership into the VLT space. So that's a 2024 opportunity, which is exciting.

I think Georgia COAM, we announced our partnership with Betsson. So we're starting to transact in that market. This is a multi-year journey with the Georgia COAM market. And then historical horse racing, we were an early adopter here in the HHR world, and it's proven to be a great tailwind for us. We were a market leader in that space. We command a leading share position. So as that market continues to expand, we naturally expand along that with great share in those markets.

So yes, significant driver for the gaming business, which I think important like I said, these are discrete markets with unique opportunities. We've got the capability to build the product, and it's not as competitive as you see in the Class III replacement market. So we're expecting more modest share gains in the Class III space, but really a big driver of the plan as these adjacent categories.

Yes. So we're active in Class II in many markets, so Yes, a significant opportunity for us. And I think that will be more in the late '24, '25 timeline -- timeframe as we start to expand beyond the tranche of adjacencies that I just mentioned.

Yes, great question. We see live dealer is a multi-year opportunity. We believe in the outlook for iGaming, states to legalize naturally over the coming years. And so we just look into the future and say, this will be a large and active market. We have the Shuffle Master IP under the hood in terms of a portfolio of assets. So it's a natural extension of our end markets. So it's a market we're going to be in. We're going to position ourselves for the long term here.

So really in the near term, it's about nailing and scaling. So nail Michigan, continue to expand partners there, get it to a point where we've ironed everything out and we're optimized. And at that point, we can naturally move into the other markets that are live at the moment.

So we have no shortage of demand to take the product into other states that are legal at the moment. We want to make sure that we've got Michigan completely nailed down and then we'll scale over extended markets. But I would say the best way to think about live dealer for us is, yes, this market's going to be big, it's going to be vibrant over the coming coming years. And my responsibility is to position the business for success and perpetuity and liver dealer is a natural space for us to participate in.

Yes. Hey. Thanks for the question, Rohan. Yes, particularly exciting for me having started my career in Australia and moved to Asia. It's just really nice to see the team down there delivering such exceptional results.

I think the international business broadly delivered 93% year-on-year growth in terms of our gaming sales, which is a huge growth number and really the consequence of two things. One is, Asia coming back online in a material way, but then also very impressive share gains in the Australian markets year on year, up from 14% to 24%. It's is a market we were 7% to 9% share player and pretty irrelevant, to be honest with you.

So I think, Yes, this is becoming a great contributor to our success. Obviously, the products that are driving our success down there are going to go global, but also demonstrates just our ability to get into new markets, to make appropriate investments and deliver great returns. So Yes, just gives us a lot of confidence in other areas of the gaming market that we can get in and explore. So, Yes, incredibly exciting.

Yes. Obviously, there's two major drivers there. There's obviously the install-base growth and then what are we doing on the RPD side. So on the revenue per day, we've seen a nice sequential uptick in terms of the revenue per day. And that really is driven by better product and a more premiumization of the installed base. I think you'll see an inflection point in 2024 from my vantage point with the portfolio we have lined up kind of the complementary nature of the different cabinets we're launching and games we're launching.

We've done a lot of heavy lifting in the install base to make sure that our legacy fleet has been addressed with the appropriate amount of CapEx. So I think you'll see RPDs in this range. And then the net benefit will be as we start to expand the installed base over time, that will be the tailwind that drives that revenue for that segment higher. But again, I feel like 2024 looks like an inflection point from where I'm standing in terms of the net adds you'll start to see quarter over quarter.

Yes. I mean those titles you mentioned specifically are premium gaming ops titles, so they won't be sold. They won't be taken to those other markets. So it really is in the US, the premium gaming ops story. So those titles that you mentioned in the portfolio is designed specifically for that. So Yes, we're encouraged about the lineup and what it can produce for us in 2024 and beyond.

Yes. No, great question. I think SciPlay is becoming quite metronomic about the way they just deliver outstanding results after outstanding results. Clearly, the fastest-growing social casino company in the industry and taking a wild amount of share. I think it all comes back to we got a best-in-class team with a really focused strategy. So we've made the right strategic investments about two years ago in the SciPlay engine, which just really gave us all the tools that we needed to make sure that we were driving each of our games efficiently.

So again, nice uptick in [indiscernible], really holding onto our down across all the four major games. It was a collective effort across many games that drove this result. So in this business, the trend is your friend or your enemy. I mean, so for us now, we're kind of up into the right with SciPlay and we have been for the last few years. So nothing suggested that will stall anytime soon. Great momentum leading into Q1. Yes, a fantastic result for SciPlay in what is apparently a challenged market. Oliver, anything to add or subtract?

Yes. And then maybe specifically to your question about which inning are we in, I'd say we're in kind of early middle innings in terms of the growth profile on the gains that we have. I think in relation to DTC, we haven't even sung the national anthem yet. Like if you look at our industry peers, they're putting 24% to 25% through DTC. We're less than 1%. So the optionality for us is all in front of us, and that's a great margin enhancement opportunity for us over the coming years.

Yes. Nice to be with you. I think probably twofold, continued success in Australia. It's a large vibrant market. It's been stable and resilient for decades, and we expect it to continue that way. So continuing to take share in that market. I think with Dragon Train and other products, we're very early in the cycle in terms of what looks like a multi-quarter, multi-year opportunity for us in Australia.

And then I think in Asia, I was in back there in September of last year. I lived there for five years in a former life and just so fantastic to see that market back on solid footing. You see Macau coming back to life on the operator side and with the churn opportunity there. That's exciting for us over the next couple of years.

But I think the really exciting opportunity is the Philippines. The chairman of Pagcor down there, the regulators has a mandate to grow GGR in a very big way. And so that comes off the back of investing in four product, in new IRs. And we are a market leader in Asia. So I think Asia is a very exciting opportunity for us, but specifically the Philippines. So Yes, we are looking forward to making the most of that opportunity over the coming years.

Yes. Maybe just one additional build there. We did a lot of heavy lifting through the divestitures and the strategic review to clean up the complexity in the portfolio. And what we have now is a very focused organization with a very clear mission about being the leading cross-platform global games company. We want to stay true to that. I think that strategy has been validated, like I said earlier, all three of our businesses growing double digits. So what you can expect from us is a management team that's very focused on being efficient around cost, but also with capital allocation making sure we have a very high bar for anything M&A related and staying really focused on keeping the leverage where we've said it would be and buying back our stock.

Yes, that is a pretty complex question, but I guess my initial reaction to that is we have seen a shift away from our public markets install base towards the premium category. So there is a tailwind there in terms of RPDs because the RPDs in the premium category are obviously higher than the public. We do expect through '24 for that to continue in terms of the ads that come into the installed base to be premium units.

So that will be incremental to RPDs over time. That's the way to think about the construct of our install base and in relation to premium gaming up. So I'd say there's some upside here from an RPD perspective, given the mix shift and then we would expect our install base to grow over time.

Thank you, operator. In closing, I would like to acknowledge our Light & Wonder employees whose commitment and dedication made the past year a success and provide us with great confidence for the future. Our global team continues to do inspiring work every day, delivering exciting new content to industry-leading games, utilizing the latest technologies, and create an exceptional customer experience.

We're excited about the opportunities ahead in 2024 as we continue to execute in our strategy in this dynamic environment. Thank you for being with us today and thank you for your support.