Matt Farrell
Church & Dwight Co., Inc. (CHD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Steve Powers, you're up.

Okay. Your first question is probably with respect to the weakness in the fourth quarter with respect to ARM & HAMMER on laundry. If you recall back when we did our Q3 call, by the way, this sounds a little right now. Does that sound okay? If you think back to our Q3 call, we said, hey, we had -- because of revenue growth management, we identified a lot of promotions that we had in Q4 of 2022 that we're not going to repeat in Q4 of 2023. So that cost us. So we lost some share but it was the right thing to do. And if you look at the most recent four weeks ended, say, mid-January, the same is true, like so we cut back as well. So we had a very low deal in the first couple of weeks of January. So it's not unexpected from inside out.

Your second question is with respect to Deep Clean. So Deep Clean is that we're entering into the high tier, something going on with this thing. We're entering into mid-tier where historically we've played in value. And yeah, we are going to be getting incremental share in there. And we do think it's going to be contribute to our share growth in 2024. But Barry, if you'd like to add anything?

Carlen, do you want to pile on it all?

We probably need a mic up here, too, for those in the crowd. Okay, Dara?

Past is prologue. So we had a slide up here that showed if you looked over the last 10 years, so what's been our organic growth rate average? It's been 4%. And almost every year, it's above 4%. And often at these meetings, we get the question, how come it's 3%? So we finally fessed up and said, yeah you know what, going forward it's going to be 4%. I mean, it's as simple as that.

Now why would we have confidence there? Because we did change how we're going to get to 4%, right? So we said 3% US, 8% international, 5% Specialty Products. International is going to be a juggernaut for us. It's 8% growth. It's in our one big component is Global Markets Group, and that's been doubling every five years. So we do have such great brands. And what we're doing is what our competitors did 30, 40 years ago, is take your products on the road.

So I think a lot of faith in the international number. And just international and US are going to benefit from our two most recent acquisitions, which is THERABREATH and HERO. And we're going to be launching HERO in 40 countries in 2024. And we just got so much runway there. So I got total confidence in our ability to grow the top line 4%. Yeah. I guess you can't rest on your laurels since you did 4% for the last 10 years. But given where I stand today and the innovation that we have, I think it's in the bag.

Sure.

Okay. Well, I'm going to throw it to Mike to talk about international. I'll let Carlen have a crack at how we're thinking about it in the US.

Yes. And obviously, we know the resets and what the planograms are going to look like.

Okay. Rupesh, you're up and then Chris. Bring your own microphone.

Yes, we'll take that one first. So I'm going to toss that one to Barry and Surabhi as far as what we're seeing for Amazon.

Yes. Rupesh, you are accurate that historically, we've said that if you look at our organic growth at 1% to 1.5% is going to come from new products. So our expectation is we're going to exceed 1.5% in 2024.

Get ready, Andrew. You're next after Chris.

Yes. I'll take a swing at VMS and you guys can prepare for the other pieces. So if we look at the category, categories really struggled this past year. If you look at the first three quarters, it was down in the first quarter, up like a point in the second quarter, down in Q3 and down 4% in Q4.

So the category is still recovering from the COVID success where the categories just rocketed. We were down even more in 2023. So we've -- as you heard today, we're making a lot of changes there. We'd be happy with a flat year for our vitamin business in 2024. So that's not -- we're not banking on a big recovery in the VMS business in order to hit our numbers. And okay.

It's only been 12 months though. We did have -- early on, we had a bit of a drought. I think in 2008 we acquired ORAJEL, and 2011 we acquired BATISTE. So I know we had some small deals in there but businesses we don't talk about are very small brands. So as far as decent-sized transactions, we've had seen a drought in the past.

And yes, I get the whole -- it's a burn a hole in your pocket, and this is -- or what do you do with the cash? We did a large buyback. I can't remember what year was. It's quite a while ago pre-COVID where we had a lot of cash building up the balance sheet. We hadn't done a sizable deal in a while, and we wound up increasing our authorization to buy back and we bought back more shares. So that's always available to us.

But like I said, we looked at four deals this past year and some had pretty good economics but we just didn't think long term that they were going to be able to be sustainable. So no, we don't ever get deal momentum in the company. So we -- like I said, we're really fussy. But we do recognize the fact that we have an unlevered balance sheet. It's pristine. We could be building up a lot of cash if we don't do that. So this time next year, we haven't done a deal. Obviously, we'd be looking a lot harder at buybacks.

And you might be encouraged by the fact that we've doubled the size of our M&A team. So for -- so I joined in 2006, and Brian joined in 2006. And in 2023, we added another person.

No, that's true. We're in the hunt to hire somebody in Europe and also in Singapore or in Asia Pacific so we get deal flow outside the US because historically, it's more US-centric, our focus, but it is true. And this is -- by the way, this is the team that goes through the diligence meetings. All the gray beards, old people with better experience. And so Brian is very grateful. Okay. I think that Andrea was going to be next, then Peter.

I'll do the M&A one, so is your question of what categories would be focused on?

Yes. Well, I mean, look at the -- you can only buy what's for sale. And we venture into lots of different categories. We will not venture into devices. But we look at household or personal care. Again, it has to be how good is the brand? How good is the brand equity? The economics obviously matter, but what do we bring to the table? Are we a good owner? So we have a pretty wide lens of the types of brands and products that we'll look at. But again, it's got to be a fast-moving consumable. But we don't have -- we don't target. It's one thing we don't want to. So Brian doesn't spend all day long, looking at categories and say, wouldn't it be wonderful to own that brand? Yes, but they're not for sale. So we don't spend any time on those PowerPoints. What we want to make sure is that we're in the deal flow that anything sets for sale, we know about. So we can look at it. That's most important.

Okay. Peter, you're next, so let's keep it at that table we have to…

Yes. And the other thing, Peter, I'm sure Barry Bruno put his hand up for spending more marketing money to the extent that we're.

But look, when you got all these new products launched and it's a target-rich environment, there's lots of places we could spend money. We've got the sheets then we just came out with. There is an awareness about that. You got to spend some dough in order to flow that out. But yes, there's lots of opportunity.

Look, everybody is aware of the fact that we've got two fast-growing brands, but this is not just a one-year look. It's because we've grown 4% for 10 years in a row. And the stable of your portfolio can change over time. And obviously, we got two fast-moving ones. We'll have other ones in the future. So we need to see if it's sustainable and clearly sustainable for the next couple of years because of those two.

But it's not a cause effects. Thanks.

Yeah. that's a good point. So if you think back that 5% growth and 5.3% growth in 2023, more than half of that came from the business ex-THERABREATH and HERO, tell you that the base business is strong. Okay, let's move over to the far table now.

I've had that question in the past. And we evaluate all of our brands regularly, because everything is going to pull their weight. But I wouldn't say that signals anything. You see that MEGALAC is one that we've looked at that for a while. It had good years and bad years. But considering that's become commoditized, we think we should move it out. But yeah, it's a regular analysis that we do as a company.

Okay. Let's start with supply. So Rick Spann, take a swing. You think you can supply 40 countries?

Hang on, Rick.

It's such a good story I want to make sure everybody can hear it.

Could we spring for another one up here?

Then you can tick off like four or five countries, we've already launched with success?

Yes. Well, look, when you talk about the promotional environment, you're generally talking about household. Household is where you have by far the most promotions, couponing, et cetera, et cetera. So, if you look at, say, liquid laundry detergent, unit dose, scent boosters sequentially Q3 to Q4, actually, the deal was declined.

Now, went the other way with cat litter. So, cat litter was up 70 basis points sequentially from Q3 to Q4. But if you look at the numbers historically, litter is around 15% sold on deal today. If you went back to 2019 or 2018, it was 20%. So, it's nowhere near where you have historical levels.

The same is true for say liquid laundry detergent. It's 33% in Q4. But you'd have to go back again quite a few years. And I think the high watermark was 40% quite a while ago. But then yes, this is quite a while ago so you'd have to say yourself, hey, all suppliers have absorbed these huge cost increases, had to raise price. Is it sensible to think that this is going to be dealt back? So, I think if you look at the trend, you'd say probably not just looking at the trend line. Yes. Okay. Microphone over here?

Yes. What was the last part of that, the 4% is actually--

Yes, I'll start off and then Barry, you pile on. So, we want a business that disrupted a category. So, the category was a $500 million category in the US say, four or five years ago. And then this new form comes along. Now, it's a billion-dollar category and still growing.

So, we said, hey, what you really want to do is you don't want to get distracted. You want to really do a great job with household penetration of patches in the United States and also taking it globally. So, that's where our focus is. But there are opportunities to go elsewhere.

I'll be getting e-mails from people in marketing and new products tomorrow, because you're on their team. We should be going into adjacent categories more quickly. But I think the slow roll is going to pay off long-term. Okay. I think that might be it. Anybody else that has…?

Oh Olivia, so sorry, dead center.

Okay. I think we're good. Hey, thanks, everybody, for joining us.