Matt Cox
Matson, Inc. (MATX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Jacob.

Yes. So, Jake, this is Matt. I would just add a little more color. I think we see the pattern that’s emerging in 2024 in the first quarter around Lunar New Year, as Joel mentioned, to be much more traditional. This is really the first year in 4 years that people have had a chance to return to their homes and are taking advantage of kind of a longer shutdown period that were abbreviated during the pandemic for various reasons. And so it’s more a return to normal than I would say anything that is of concern to us about our outlook, which is in part why we still think that the full year we are going to have a year that looks a lot like on a consolidated basis, the year we just finished in 2023.

Yes. Jake, it’s a good question. I think certainly, we know our customers are looking closely at – we talked about the Red Sea, we talked about the drought in the Panama Canal, the ILA contract renewal. These are all factors that I think are going to inform our customers’ decisions around how they are going to route their cargo into the U.S., the imports that many of our customers have multiple distribution centers and can select where they want to have the imports focused. What I would say is while we know customers are looking closely at these various factors, so far, we haven’t seen any significant movement of customer moves in that direction, although – and nor have we seen any significant changes in deployed capacity by the international ocean carriers, but I do expect that we will see, at a minimum, a return of that cargo, which moved off of the West Coast when the ILWU contract was renewed in 2023. So, we do expect some volume to return to the West Coast that had left during the ILWU contract renewal. The extent and amount are unclear and not yet present, but we do expect some increased volume as a result of some of that as the year progresses in ‘24.

Sure. Thank you.

Hi Ben.

Yes. Let me take a crack at that. So, from our expectation of what we know now, of course, we will have two weekly departures for the full year 2024 as we did in 2023, except for the handful of CLX+, now MAX wages post-Lunar New Year when the expedited market demand could be accommodated by the single sailing of the CLX service. So, I think what you will see, and we were effectively full once we ramped ourselves back up after this post-Lunar New Year period. So, we expect – there really is no fundamental changes in our expectation at this point about the number of voyages that sixth ship we have added we do not expect will be results in additional voyage. That vessel is there to stand by as a reserve either the CLX or the MAX service because of a weather event or some other circumstances not able to sail to ensure an on-time departure that our customers rely on and are willing to pay for through our premium rate structure. So, I don’t think you are going to see a – we are not thinking that there is going to be any significant additional capacity that’s introduced in a very similar profile in terms of how our ships are going to fill up as the year goes on.

Yes, I think the short answer is yes. I think we – as we talked about it in our prepared comments, I do feel like Matson since the acquisition, 5 years, 6 years ago, have really focused on two areas of growth – or three areas. One, of course, was the acquisition of Span Alaska in our logistics business, and that business has continued to grow faster than market. We have invested in new distribution facilities, two in the state, one in Anchorage and one in Fairbanks that have led to strong growth in that segment. But on the ocean transportation side, really, there are two segments that we focused on. One is the – in the Oil and Gas segment that Horizon Lines, our previous company had not focused very much on, and we are now seeing it as a growing component of our freight flows. And right now, the dynamics in Alaska for exploration and production are good. And we are aware of our customers looking at large multiyear projects, and we expect to benefit from that additional volume in drilling and production. The other one, of course is the seafood exports outside of – on the Aleutian Islands, Kodiak and Dutch Harbor primarily to international seafood markets and buyers in Asia in our scope of services. And so those are the two verticals that we have seen most directly that we have grown ourselves into. And frankly, we continue to see more growth opportunities in both of those segments moving forward.

Thank you, Ben.

Yes, sure. Thanks for the question. I would say that when we look at brand extensions, I would say we would look to our past to look at both organic growth initiatives, whether it’s our fleet of 53-foot rail boxes growth in those rail services in and out of Mexico, for example, is a new vertical. That’s an organic growth initiative. We have done some small tuck-in acquisitions in the Alaska service. And while we see valuations as continue to be elevated in logistics businesses or base their financial forecasts on elevated profit forecast that were borne out of the pandemic boom. We do keep a watchful eye on good quality businesses that fit our investment profile. I would say right now, there is – well, we are going to keep a close eye on it. We think valuations are still relatively elevated and beyond our underwriting capability. To your point about China, we expanded our service offering, connecting with partners to have direct services from Vietnam, which connect over Shanghai to meet our CLX or our MAX services. We expect continued growth in working with partners to expand the origins of our business out of China into nearby markets. So, those are just a couple of examples of ways in which we expect to continue to grow over time.

Thank you, Grant.

Okay. Thanks operator. Thanks for tuning in today. We look forward to catching up with everyone at the first quarter call. Aloha.