Michael Brown
Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning Chris. Yes, the new owner question is a very important one and as we came out of the pandemic, we said that there were two very important elements. Number one was, we wanted to increase our marketing standards -- the credit standards. And secondly is, we wanted to ensure our marketing partners delivered positive margins, as well as new owners. So we took a very measured approach coming out and we've seen our -- I would say, diversified OPC channels grow on a regional basis. We're not overly dependent on a single partner. We do have some bigger partners that generate a lot of tours for us. But region-by-region, each of our regional marketing executives will evaluate the best opportunities in their region. And therefore, contract locally. What typically happens in the cadence of the year and you also see it in our VPG guidance in the Q -- in the first quarter versus the full year is, the summer months are your big new owner months. So our teams right now will be working with marketing partners to sign up deals for the upcoming summer. So you're just building on the success of last year, which was 18% tour growth from the prior year and we're expecting tour growth this year over 10%. So it's just a steady growth on a regional basis of developing the right partners that will deliver; A, new owners; and B, at a profit from day one.

Yes. Well, yes, you can get the growth through top line growth. One of the key elements that we've modified is that -- the addition of the Travel Club business is driving incremental EBITDA growth in that space. Although it's not meeting the expectations we originally laid out on Investor Day, it is providing growth and it is providing a new source of revenue for that side of the business. So the rightsizing was really a reflection of the growth trajectory we saw in Travel Club, and we've seen a lot of predictability start to come into the exchange side of the equation as we've seen coming out of pandemic, it dropped, but we're starting to see that stabilize to a revenue range that we think is pretty predictable. So yes, I think we can see top line growth. And we just needed to make some changes to make sure the cost structure reflected what we thought was the future growth in revenue in the Travel and Membership space.

Thanks, Chris.

Good morning, David. There's no change in our capital allocation strategy. I think for the last five years, we've said dividends are the foundation and then you're consistently choosing between strategic M&A opportunities and share repurchases, and we'll only act on anything M&A as it relates to what we think is, has the right IRR and also fits into our long-term strategy. Sports Illustrated does exactly that. And for the ability to grow with a brand of that quality with the marketing capabilities that come along with it, which is lifestyle, leisure in the hospitality space, combined with a world-class hospitality brand like Accor, which really strategically decided to put on pause its sales effort in Asia Pacific region, post-pandemic. The opportunity to get an existing operation, 30,000 members with a brand to the quality of Accor made complete sense to us. As Mike mentioned, we returned 15% of our capital through dividends and share repurchases last year. On top of this, yes, pretty much the same the year prior. And when we saw these two opportunities to invest in the long-term growth of this business to support our long-term initiatives to be in high single digits, it was really an easy choice for us, and we couldn't be more excited about it.

Look, we're in the business of leisure vacations in the vacation ownership space. And I think our 2023 execution against that shows that our business model performs extremely well. And if we have the opportunity to invest in the long-term success of our business -- look, Accor is more immediate because it's an existing operation of size -- of relatively decent size as far as their owner base in resort system and to build something like Sports Illustrated from ground up is, it is an investment in what we do well, which is leisure vacations and vacation ownership. And in the absence of those opportunities going forward, we'll use our free cash flow to keep ploughing into share repurchases and paying the increased dividend.

Yes, very important sort of the strategic direction for the next few years is our growth this year will be tour led. As I mentioned, we had 18% growth last year. We'd expected our tour growth this year to be over 10%, which is a combination of a number of factors. We mentioned that our owner room nights will be -- are already projecting up versus 23%. That results in incremental owner tours. We have a great relationship with the Wyndham Hotel groups that, for the first time, broke $100 million of sales last year. We expect that to grow as that relationship remains very strong and productive. And then lastly, back to Chris' question is our regional teams continue to grow incrementally, good profitable, local marketing channels. As it relates to the volume per guest, we are projecting at the high end of our long-term guidance range. And that really -- that with our tour growth is an important dynamic to look at because with our expected new owner growth this year, this will put us over 35% of our transactions being new owners. And for those who are -- those of you familiar with our story, we said once we get to 35%, we are set up for the long haul to be stabilized, and we can start making decisions on a year-on-year basis as to if we want to grow that number or not. So that implies that as we get beyond 2024, the decisions on -- you should have less of an impact on VPG related to a mix adjustment unless we proactively make that choice beyond this year.

I do. It's -- it's never easy to make changes. And I think the industry has evolved dramatically over the last 12 years. And at some point, the nature of the structure of the industry changes, and therefore, you have to change the structure of your business. Our teams continue to deliver great exchanges with over 3.5 million members in that space, but you recognize structurally where the exchange business is, which as we shared, will be low single-digit growth this year. And you have to make those changes, which is what we did. We still love the business, high margin, high free cash flow and think that this sets us up for a very clear line of sight to our performance in 2024, which, candidly, was a constant conversation that we had on these calls. And that change along with our clear line of sight to this year's performance should hopefully result in a lot of calls this year where people are nodding their heads because we're hitting those expectations and achieving the goals we laid out on this call.

Thank you, Patrick.

Absolutely. So their run rate EBITDA is approximately $6 million to $8 million. And as I mentioned previously, is they have really stalled their sales efforts coming out of the pandemic to decide exactly how they want to take the business forward. So as we look at this year, we should be closing this deal at the end of Q1, which means we have three-fourth of the year, which means very immaterial EBITDA for this year, $2 million to $3 million. But our investment and real focus this year will be the re-ramping and growth of the sales efforts related to the Accor Vacation Club. There's no one on this call that doesn't know the brand and know the quality of it and having the level of resorts in the Region 24 the Accor team is excited about it. The Travel + Leisure team is excited and very similar -- it's a license fee arrangement. So they're incented for us to grow their member count, their top line and ultimately leading to more resorts at more Accor destinations.

The short answer is yes. The more detailed answer is materially against $2.2 billion of sales. It's not going to move a VPG needle. But the Accor Vacation Club is an upscale brand which tends to bring with it slightly higher VPGs.

I don't see the physical capacity issues. We have sufficient sales pace. People are the key to success in this industry, and we're very focused on retaining and bringing in new talent. So I think physical capacity and human capacity are the most important along with the third leg of that stool is in today's world data is key. So it's one of the reasons that we love the relationship with Wyndham Hotels and are excited about their growth and their loyalty program as well as the reason we're excited about the additions of Sports Illustrated and Accor is they bring new databases, untapped data basis to a certain degree and give us the ability to grow our marketing component. And if I could just swing back to add one comment to Mike Hug's earlier on margins. I think in a year like 2023, where we had challenges in our Travel and Membership segment, high margin and the rapid rise of interest rates, I just want to say I'm very proud of our team. Yes, we organically executed to our vacation ownership plans that we laid out at the beginning of 2023. And I think that was a great accomplishment, but also the overall margin of the business with some headwinds against high-margin business shows once again that our team, when faced with challenges finds a way to deliver against expectations and in the case of 2023 actually it improve our margins slightly.

Thanks, Dany.

I can. For the first half of the year, the two primary destinations are, where you would expect, Las Vegas and Orlando are leading the charge. We -- I expect this year that you'll see a return to U.S. travel. I think we all know that Europe was the hot market last year in Cruise. I think the second half of the year blending into the first part of this year remains hot. I'm not sure how they trail through the year. But our bookings are ahead 5% on room nights for the full year and -- yes 5% for the full year.

Just one more quick thing to add to that is post-pandemic, there's been a tendency for a longer length of stay. We're seeing that longer length of stay continue, which really sort of validates this work from anywhere environment that continues to persist even into 2024 related to our owner bookings.

So we have significant Hawaii exposure in Oahu, Maui and the Big Island and Kauai. We only have one resort in Maui and what I would say for our 2023 performance, there was no material change from what we performed in that market from 2022. And as it relates to 2024 bookings, they look very similar to what they were in '23 and '22. So for us, we really didn't see any material variability in performance, both sales or occupancy for the year between the 3 years, '22, '23 and '24. And again, we only have the one resort on the Island of Maui.

So, the key to expansion is good execution. So our first priority will be to make sure we execute against the plan we put forward. But the short answer to your future expansion question is yes. We want to establish the relationship, build a good one with Accor just like we have with Wyndham Hotels, which has proved to be highly successful. And then from there, gain the mutual respect and alignment economically to grow and do more locations, countries and regions of the world.

Thanks, Patrick.

Thank you, Sherry. We were very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year performance, particularly in our core business vacation ownership. We are effectively leveraging leisure travel momentum, which we expect to continue in 2024. As indicated by our announcement of the Accor agreement, we have great traction in executing our multi-brand strategy. We are excited by the opportunities ahead to drive earnings and adjusted free cash flow and to deliver value to our shareholders. I want to thank our teams who work tirelessly every day to put the world on vacation. And thank you for participating. Have a great day, everyone.