Michael Arougheti
Ares Management Corporation (ARES) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, it’s a good question. We’ve talked about this before. Obviously, we were early, I think, in identifying the growing opportunity in alternative credit. I think it’s important that people appreciate like so many things happening in private credit right now with both secular and cyclical.

So a lot of the secular trends that have been driving more capital formation in Alt Credit actually started post the GSE with the dismantling of the larger securitization apparatus on the street and the proliferation of smaller finance companies in the wake of the GSE. And that trend, call it, the first wave has been very much intact for the last 10 years and has given us a nice backdrop to grow what we think is a market-leading business there.

Obviously, now with Basel III and some of the challenges that I think we all saw emerge in the banking sector generally early last year, there is an accelerated cyclical opportunity, obviously, to partner with banks largely in our Alt Credit business to help them navigate some of their balance sheet challenges. And that’s been a keen area of focus, but not an exclusive area of focus.

We talked on our last call about a sizable partnership transaction that we did with PacWest. We were public about a recent trade that we did on the risk transfer side. And those dialogues are ongoing and continuing. And I actually think that they will continue regardless of the resolution of Basel III end game. I think what we learned coming out of the struggles in the sector were largely structural. And once we get past this first phase of balance sheet restructuring and repositioning, I think you’re going to have a lot of banks, regional, super regional and GSIBs just rethinking core businesses and balance sheet positioning. And we put ourselves out there as a proven partner for them as they go through that.

So, I think it’s – it bodes well for continued deployment. And we had a very strong fourth quarter in Alt Credit. We’re seeing that activity level spill over into the New Year, and I’d expect that to continue.

Morning.

Sure. Good question. Just to clarify, Craig, the $350 million was both ASIF and its European counterpart, but obviously, strong numbers relative to the momentum that we saw building into the end of the year. I do think that both ASIF and AESIF are benefiting from our long successful track record at scale in the public markets.

Obviously, as the market leader in direct lending and having run BDCs through cycles, I think that, that is definitely a tailwind. And I think if you look at the early fundraising momentum that we’re enjoying both of those funds that compares well to competitor product. One of the reasons that we are so excited right now, both of those products are actually only on one platform. We had our first wealth closing in ASIF in August, and we actually now are expecting to add a significant number of new partners throughout the year, both in the U.S. and overseas, Europe and Asia.

So I think you’ll see that selling group increase dramatically as we get through the rest of the year. And needless to say that, that should result in some pretty good fundraising momentum. Similarly, on AESIF, we have one partner, and our expectation is that we’ll probably add two or three there as well in Q2 or Q3 of this year.

Yes, it’s interesting. I think – and we said this in the prepared remarks, we’re quite pleased with our performance relative to the rest of the non-traded REIT product in 2023, which was a difficult year just given performance headwinds and some of the redemption conversation around some of our larger peers. But if you look at the performance of both of the REITs, we actually had positive flows in the quarter and throughout the year, which I think is an outlier. I think that’s a combination of the positioning of those funds.

There are some unique attributes in terms of our 1031 Exchange product that I think is a little stickier. Those funds are less leveraged. So, we’re going into 2024, obviously, having seen reduced sales but having positive net flows in both of those products. And my expectation would be that as some of the peer performance improves and people begin to feel like we’re hitting bottom on cap rates and interest rates that you’ll begin to see sales pick up there.

So again, it’s still early. Our experience in January would tell us that the sales are still there. But I think once we get to a place where interest rates are moderating and the redemption narrative within the peer set has moderated that we’ll see ourselves accelerate as well.

Sure. I want to clarify some of the comments that were made on the ARCC call, because that is not how I would interpret the commentary. There is a give and take in the market generally that when the markets are accelerating in activity, the banks will get more active, syndicated loan and high-yield market will open up and the CLO machine will turn on. That’s not necessarily a bad thing because that means that transaction activity is picking up, and there’s an opportunity to drive higher volumes and higher fees.

I think it’s important that people appreciate at least from the Ares [ph] and ARCC perceive is that we continue to have a very, very strong focus on the traditional middle market. It’s a very big part of what we do across the globe. And I think there’s a little bit of a misunderstanding that a lot of the growth has come from share gains from the syndicated loan and high-yield market. And as long as we’ve been doing this, yes, there are moments in time when the loan market is closed. And at the higher end of the middle market, private credit providers can take share and then obviously, when the markets heal, activity levels pick up.

But unlike some of our larger peers, we are not dependent on a transfer of market share from the liquid markets in order to continue to drive the growth and performance that we’ve seen. So to clarify, I think, the commentary, I would say the enhanced levels of activity and turning back on of the deal market writ large, I think, right now is significantly more of a positive than a negative. There are significant, what I would call mitigants to refinancing in the private markets unlike the liquid markets that tend to just be price-driven.

A lot of that is just relationships. So if you look at our deployment, for example, in 2023, 57% of our deployment in 2023 was to incumbent borrowers. That relationship is critically important and is actually protective of the portfolio. And then when you look at the amount of upfront fees, call protection, et cetera, that exist in these private credit instruments, even as spreads are tightening and capital is flowing into the liquid market, the economics of refinancing take a while to find their way into the market.

So, I think as we’re sitting here today, I would say it’s actually a net positive. We’re seeing increased transaction activity, more liquidity in the market. And I think that’s generally a good thing. So, I heard some of the commentary on the call yesterday. I don’t think that we’re looking at a return to normal in the liquid markets is bad for the Ares Credit business. I’d also highlight that we are one of the largest liquid credit managers and CLO managers as well. So from the Ares management perspective, as that market opens up, we’re a big beneficiary as well.

Yes. It is remarkably similar. If you look at the EBITDA numbers that were quoted for the ARCC portfolio is about an 8% year-over-year EBITDA growth that had accelerated from 6% in the prior quarter. If you look at the European direct funding, which is actually pretty amazing, year-over-year EBITDA growth was 18%.

LTVs are a little bit higher. They’re kind of in the 48% range in Europe versus 42%, 43% in Europe. Interest coverage is a little bit higher in Europe, 1.8% versus 1.6%. But if you just take all of the different ways to articulate credit exposure, they're largely similar. But we're seeing a surprising amount of momentum and resilience within the fundamental revenue and EBITDA portfolio in Europe right now.

It's a good question. I think Kipp articulated it well, which is just by definition, given the rate backdrop and the assumption that rates will stay higher for longer, I think you will see an uptick in defaults, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. And what we keep trying to focus people on is the structural improvement in the leverage lending market, particularly the private credit market in terms of the amount of equity subordination in a lot of these capital structures. And so if you look at loans to value of 42% or 48%, when you look at the structure of the private equity market, there's about $3.5 trillion of private equity sitting at the bottom of a lot of these capital structures with $1 trillion of dry powder to protect value.

And so I think part of what you are seeing is that even if there's a nonaccrual, many of these are unlike prior cycles where you have fundamental underperformance at the company level. They're being driven by higher rates for some of the better performing companies that were able to access more leverage. And those are a lot easier to resolve, both in terms of modification and amendment. But they're also the first places that capital coming in from the private equity sponsors to protect the value below you.

I would say the industry is obviously running higher than we are. I think that we continue to outperform from a credit standpoint. But we're at peak rates. The economy continues to be strong. So if rates stay at this level, I would expect that to tick up a little bit, but I don't think that we're going to return to historical levels.

Sure. Obviously, we have been diversifying the business for a very long time now, both in terms of asset class, fund structure, distribution channel, geography. And a lot of those investments, as I highlighted in my concluding remarks are now bearing fruit and have significant momentum.

Credit as well is not one thing here, right. So when you look at our credit business. It's a host of strategies, liquid and illiquid around the globe at various parts of the capital structure. And while many people feel like those businesses are maturing, if you look at the way that these funds are structured and the way that the performance is stacking, we still think that we have significant growth across the credit spectrum.

It's an interesting comment on secondaries because right now, if you look at the balance sheet of all of these assets, whether it's a buyout or a piece of real estate or an infrastructure asset, everyone is dealing with the same challenge, which is fundamentally strong performance, over-levered balance sheet and a liquidity challenge. And so for the first time in a very long time when we're going through the market transition, the problem or the use case is the same in every market that we're in. It's how do you bring capital into these companies and assets in a way that minimizes dilution, expands duration and runway for the asset owner and a lot of these businesses to not just kind of get to the other side of the rate hiking cycle but to accelerate out of it.

And that's taking any number of forms. It could be through direct lending, where we're making a first or second lien loan. It could come through our opportunistic credit business, where we're doing debt restructured equity investing. It could be P/E, where we're coming in with some kind of minority equity, and then it could be secondaries. So I think the investment thesis for growth in secondaries, again, secular and cyclical.

Secular growth is being just driven by the growth in the primary markets on a global basis. And the cyclical opportunity is this need for creative solutions to resolve the installed base. And we are seeing volumes pick up pretty dramatically across the secondaries landscape. And I think we are uniquely positioned given the fact that we have funds in real estate, infrastructure, private equity and credit that could come into these situations at various cost of capital and be a really good solution provider. And maybe stating the obvious, just given the depth of our GP relationships in each of these markets, corporate and real assets, I think we have a really strong origination advantage.

So we are working hard to continue to raise capital in that business. As we talked about, we had a very successful fundraise for our leading real estate practice. Our PMF, which is our non-traded fund, continues to scale into the opportunity. We're having very meaningful early success in growth of our credit secondaries business. So we're enthusiastic about the growth opportunity in the secondaries market and our ability to capitalize on it. And it's actually a really interesting example of an acquisition that we've made and transformed and repositioned into a new market. But I don't think it's just secondaries. Again, I think it's going to be the full product set that's going to be coming into this market to try to resolve some of these situations.

Yes. I think you answered your own question. I mean, our experience would be that the investor base is buying the excess return available in these markets relative to the public market equivalents. They're buying lower volatility. They're buying non-benchmark exposures. They're buying active management. But ultimately, we have not seen changes in investor demand through the different phases of this rate cycle or prior. We've been doing this a very long time, and rates go up, they go down. The balls go up, they go down, and we haven't really seen impact on investor demand.

I think we're now at a point in the development of these markets while they're still growing, they are becoming core exposures in most investor portfolios, both institutional and retail. And I wouldn't expect that as rates move that we're going to see capital flowing out. One could argue maybe if rates come down that it could spur increased demand just because of our ability to continue to drive differentiated deployment, access and spread, but that's TBD.

Yes, Mike, it's a good question. And again, I'll just reiterate what I just said. Every part of the business is turned on right now. We have $110 billion of uninvested capital, which may sound like a lot. But if you look at our 2023 deployment, we deployed close to $70 billion of capital in what most people would argue was a tough deployment year, and that was down from a little over $80 billion in 2022.

So I think we now kind of know what the guardrails are given the depth of the platform and capability set that we have. If you look at Q4 specifically, $24 billion against Q4 2022, which was about $22 billion. So we had a strong Q4 as well year prior, and I think that's a typical seasonal pattern that we see. But Q1, at least in the early goings, feels like it is going to be higher than it normally would be given seasonality. And that's causing, I think, us and others to feel optimistic about the activity going into at least the first half of the year.

But it's really across the board because a lot of what we're doing in each of our businesses across credit, real assets, P/E, secondaries, like I said, is really coming into a market that is starved for capital with a big installed base of institutional equity that needs a solution. And so I wouldn't really highlight any one as jumping off the page, Mike. It's really – again, it's across the board, which is quite unique from a deployment setup standpoint because normally, when we're talking about cycles or even different outlooks for rates or the economy, one or two businesses will pop out, but that's not what we're seeing. They've all been pretty consistent year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.

Yes. I mean I think we have probably one of the largest capabilities across the various asset classes in asset-based finance. And it's always hard to say, where the opportunity set is going to be. It's a function of what's happening in the broader market. But I think we are one of the few platforms that has dedicated in-house origination and portfolio management capability across the broad waterfront. And I think it's important that when we talk about asset-based finance and structured products that we are differentiating between the investment-grade side of the market and the non-investment-grade side of the market, meaning the bottom half of the balance sheet. And I think that we have by far the largest capital base and team against the – what I would call the non-high grade part of the market. So some of our peers have appropriately articulated, there will continue to be growth in the high-grade part of the space. We are participating in that as well. And I think there will continue to be growth in the non-investment grade part of the market. And I think we have a real leadership advantage there.

Back to the earlier question just about banks and liquidity and risk transfers, we are very active on portfolio acquisitions, partnerships, risk transfers, fund finance. All of the things that are coming out of the transition in the banking market, I’d say, are prominent right now, and I would expect that to continue.

So maybe without getting into too much detail, I would say that, that’s probably where we’re seeing the biggest amount of flow as opposed to saying, which corner of the asset-based market we find most attractive because, again, that’s always a function of structure, price and kind of where we are with our counterparties.

Jarrod, I would also add, as we talked about earlier, that as rates come down with that lagged effect that usually means a transaction activity is picking up and structuring and underwriting fee contribution flowing through some of those vehicles that generate FRPR would be an offset to the lagged effect of rates declining.

I’ve been pretty vocal on this, and I think that you kind of have to distill the signal through the noise in terms of the amount of capital and new entrants into private credit. So first, it’s important, if you look at the growth in private credit markets over the last 10 years, it’s basically grown at the same compound annual growth rate as every other market that folks participate in.

It grows linearly, so it grows in a different way. But if you just look at the actual growth, it hasn’t actually outpaced, it’s not frothier. If you look at the structure of the private credit markets and you say that the biggest users of private credit across the private credit spectrum are institutional equity owners, there’s still a significant shortfall of supply of private credit relative to the demand.

So just if you use the private equity market as an example, there’s about $1 trillion as I mentioned of dry powder in the private equity market today against maybe $200 billion of private credit dry powder. So you’ve got 20% private credit raised against the private equity installed base. And if you said that roughly 50-50 debt to equity, you need to see a $1 trillion of private credit capital formation just to satisfy the private equity capital that’s been raised. And you see similar trends emerging in infrastructure and real estate. So there’s plenty of room for growth.

Third, I would just highlight, and if you look at the actual numbers, the preponderance of dollars that get raised and deployed are in the hands of a few large long-tenured incumbent lenders. That has been the case. That consolidation trend is accelerating. And there are meaningful benefits to scale in private credit, the ability to originate and invest in broader origination teams around the globe, the ability to have flexible capital at scale to drive better deployment in different market environments and so on and so forth.

So if you look at the number of people raising their hand that are saying we’re in the private credit business, yes, that has increased. But if you look at where the dollars are flowing and the dollars already getting deployed, the competitive dynamic is not that different. And as I’ve talked about earlier with regard to the syndicated loan and high-yield market, I do think that there has been some new entrants that have not been building entrenched origination networks for the last 30 years. That’s the easiest place to deploy in the larger part of the market, taking advantage of challenges in the liquid market.

And I do think that deployment will be tougher there than in the core middle market. But if you look at the core middle market, the competitive landscape is pretty unchanged. And you just look at the deployment numbers that we articulate for our business, if you look at our direct lending business last year, in the fourth quarter alone, we did $14 billion of deployment, which is larger than most private credit managers total AUM. So we’re – I don’t want to sound immodest, but we continue to execute well given all the competitive advantages we have. And I think we’ll continue to do so.

I would say yes, but we should just clarify that I would say fund families, right? So one of the things, again, that I think is important as you’re scaling any of these private credit businesses to make sure that you have different funds for different parts of the market, whether it’s different cost of capital or borrower needs or geographic nuances. So the Pathfinder family has been scaling with good performance, and I would expect will continue. But sitting next to Pathfinder II, for example, is an open-ended core fund that has a lower cost of capital and the ability to invest in a different part of the market. That is similarly scaling well with good performance.

We obviously have our affiliation with Aspida that is scaling AUM within the alternative credit business. We have a number of third-party insurance SMAs and partnerships that are growing. So, I would just clarify that the alternative credit family of funds, yes, is growing nicely, continues to scale, and I think is one of the biggest growth opportunities that we have here. But you won’t just see it within the core Pathfinder flagships. It’s going to be the whole family of funds that surround it.

No, I don’t think we have any. Again, we appreciate everybody’s continued support and interest. And we look forward to speaking again next quarter. Thank you.
