Michael O'Sullivan
Burlington Stores, Inc. (BURL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

It's a good question. Let me start by putting 2024 into context with the last three years. If I go back to 2021, our trend was extraordinarily strong, stronger than peers, fueled by the impact of pandemic era benefits on our poor, lower income shoppers. Then in 2022, we came back down to earth with a bump as those shoppers were crushed by lower benefits and by big increases in their cost of living. Now those issues continue to bleed into the first half of 2023.

So here we are, what to expect in 2024? I'm going to whisper this, but we think it's possible that 2024 could be the first full normal year since I joined Burlington in 2019. And that's kind of how we approached guidance for 2020.

In normal times, before the pandemic, we would likely have planned a low single-digit comp and then been ready to chase. Of course, we don't know if the trend in 2024 will be stronger or weaker. There is plenty of economic uncertainty, interest rates, inflation, gas prices, as well as political and geopolitical risks even.

But by planning 0% to 2% comp, we're positioning ourselves to react, I think, to an appropriate range of outcomes. If the trend is weaker than 2%, we can pull back and absorb it. If it's stronger than 2%, then we know we could chase it. I should add, in Q4, as we've just reported, we grew 2% comp versus last year, so that gives us some confidence that our 2024 guidance is reasonable.

The key part of your question was about our longer-term outlook, so let me try and reconcile our 2024 guidance to a longer range target of mid-single-digit comp growth. In the years leading up to the pandemic, although we might have planned low-single-digit comp, the intent was always to chase above that. And measured over multiple years, our comp indeed averaged 3% to 4%.

But we think that, as the after effects of the pandemic continue to recede, that's the right baseline for our longer term model. We believe all the underlying consumer, competitive and structural factors that drove that growth still exist.

But, in addition, we know that we've taken significant actions to improve our own execution of the off-price model. And as those actions gain traction, we expect to outperform that 3% to 4% baseline. So, if I pull all this together, for the 12 months ahead, for 2024, our plan is based on low-single-digit comp growth with the potential to chase.

In future years, I should add, it will likely take a similar approach, and I expect in some years, we'll chase and beat that number. In other years, we won't. But we believe over an extended period, a five-year period, we will be able to achieve average annual comp growth in the mid-single-digits.

Let me anchor my answer on the gross number of new store openings. We expect to open about 140 new stores on a gross basis this year. That includes relocating a couple of dozen of our older, oversized, less productive stores.

As we've described previously, that program of relocations is pretty important. It's going to be important to us in the next few years as we reposition ourselves away from some of our less attractive legacy real estate.

Anyway, if you take 140 gross new stores and remove those relocations and remove any closures, then we expect our incremental number of new stores to net down to about 100.

As I said in the prepared remarks, we have high standards and tight controls for the quality of the real estate where we open new stores. Each potential location is analyzed carefully based on the traffic, trade area, demographics, and co-tenants. And based upon those detailed characteristics, we feel pretty excited about the new stores that we're planning to open this year.

Now beyond this year, it's a little difficult to get specific, but I'd offer up a couple of comments. We typically manage our new store pipeline two to three years out. So we still have plenty of work to do on our 2025 new store pipeline, but so far I would say it's shaping up well.

It includes a number of additional former Bed Bath & Beyond stores that we didn't pursue directly during the bankruptcy process, but instead have negotiated directly with the underlying landlords. And we're excited about those locations.

Beyond 2025, the pipeline is going to depend on the availability of attractive real estate locations. Again, difficult to be specific, but given the weak outlook across bricks and mortar retail, there are reasons to think that that availability could be fairly strong.

I would say that historically in off price, and certainly for us, the lower income shopper has been, A, or even B, major driver of growth. But since early 2022, that has not been the case. In fact, I would say that, for the last few years, it's been clear that right now the growth in off price is being driven by higher income shoppers. That's not a new revelation. We talked about that last year.

In 2023, especially in the fall, we pursued a number of strategies to go after those shoppers, in particular focused on delivering a higher mix of recognizable brands and on elevating our assortments in specific businesses. Those strategies worked. They worked really well. But looking back, we could see that we could/should maybe have been even more aggressive.

Many of the areas that I'm talking about require that you make buying commitments well ahead of time. In other words, it's more difficult to chase in some of those businesses. And that means that you have to commit further out. And that means you have to be prepared to take more risk. So although I'm happy with the success of the strategies we pursued, in retrospect, I think we should have leaned in more. We should have taken a little more risk. And we might have ended up actually with a slightly lower margin, but we could have driven more sales.

So as we look at 2024, we see that as an opportunity. Again, the lead times are a little longer for many of those brands and those businesses. So I would say the opportunity is likely to be stronger in the second half versus the first.

I guess the last thing I would say is that we have always had a lower mix of higher income shoppers than some of our peers. We know this. It's partly a reflection of where our stores are located.

I think we've shared before that about 70% of our stores are in trade areas where the mean household income is less than $80 ,000. That footprint is not going to change in the short term. But what 2023 demonstrated is that we have enough higher income shoppers coming into our stores, but we can drive incremental sales if we offer great value on the recognizable brands, styles, and items that they are looking for. So we're going to go after that business much more aggressively in 2024.

We did, in fact, increase our buybacks to a little over $100 million last quarter, which was nearly double the previous quarter. So we were more opportunistic this past quarter, as we will from time to time, depending on valuation and liquidity. And we don't guide to buybacks, but I think you can see, looking at our balance sheet at the end of the quarter, we had over $900 million in cash and over $1.6 billion in liquidity, so we're in a really very strong liquidity position.

As we've said many times before, our first priority is to invest in our growth. And Kristin just, a few questions ago, walked through our larger CapEx investment in 2024. Nevertheless, despite that step up, we still expect to generate sufficient cash flow, free cash flow to return excess cash to shareholders.

We're going to continue to be active, but we're not going to guide to a level. I guess what I would say is, if you look at the buyback level in fiscal 2023 for the year as a whole, that's probably a reasonable proxy for what you might expect, again, depending on market conditions.

I would also remind you that we had $500 million remaining at the end of Q4 on our buyback authorizations that run through August 2025. So we'll update you in May on our Q1 buyback opportunities.

I'm going to answer your question, but I want to preface my answer by saying, we're students of our business, so we always analyze weather. We always analyze everything, but we always analyze weather to help us explain the context for our trends. But internally, and I want to underscore this internally, we're very careful to focus on what we control. We don't want our merchants or operators to use weather as an excuse.

But with that said, there were two main weather call-outs in Q4. I think the one that's most widely reported elsewhere is January. The weather in January was certainly disruptive with winter storms in many of our major markets. As we came into the month, we were running a stronger trend, but the disruptive weather dragged down our comp for the quarter.

But, look, it's, our view is it's January. Winter storms happen, and I assume that those storms also hurt other retailers in our markets.

There was another sort of weather impact in Q4 that probably hurt us disproportionately versus other retailers. That was driven by milder temperatures for most of November and for December versus last year. Those are obviously the prime selling months for outerwear, which for a company that many people still think of as Burlington Coat Factory is relatively very important. Our outerwear business is not just to drive our sales in its own right. It also brings traffic to the store and therefore lifts sales across other departments.

Now in Q4, our comp sales in outerwear was down in the negative mid-single digits. Leaving aside the broader impact on store traffic, that comp sales impact alone cost us a full point in overall comp sales for the quarter.

Quarter-to-date, we've just wrapped up February. So, we're four weeks into the quarter. And truthfully, I would describe the trend in February as softer than we had anticipated.

Now I suspect you've probably heard that from some other retailers as well. We attribute that softness to maybe some unfavorable weather early in the month and then a slower pace of tax refunds versus last year. As we've discussed previously, our core customer is just extremely sensitive to the timing of tax refunds, especially the timing of earned income tax credit.

Now we're expecting that tax refunds will catch up over the next few weeks. But candidly, this is a good example of why it makes sense to plan our comp conservatively and flexibly, which is what we've done.

One of the metrics that we always look at internally is our comp sales growth on regular price versus markdown merchandise. That's particularly important for us.

As you know, one of the major elements of Burlington 2.0 is to turn our in-store inventory out faster. That means fewer markdowns, and that means less clearance inventory. That's very healthy from a margin perspective, but lower clearance balances are also a slight headwind to comp.

I call that out in the comments because it was quite significant in Q4. Our clearance sales were down by about a fifth versus last year. Our regular price comp was up about 4%. We regard that as a very healthy sign. In other words, the customer likes what we're putting in front of them.

I would attribute it to all three of the things that you called out. I think our execution on the merchant side in the fall season was very good. And actually, one of things I really liked about how we managed the business in the fall season, there were some merchandise areas that did not perform well. But early in this season, we saw that they were not performing well, and our merchants and planners moved very quickly to take money out of those businesses and push that money into faster trending areas.

That's exactly what you want in an off -price business, and that worked well for us. It obviously saved margin dollars because had we not done that, we would have taken markdowns in those businesses. But it also helps drive the sales trend in businesses that we could chase.

So I feel good about what it says about the seasoning of the buyers, and also I also feel about good what is says our values. Ultimately, what's driving the customer to make a purchase is the value they are seeing in front of them. And if they're seeing great value at a regular price, then we don't need to mark it down. So, I take that as a very positive sign.

The last thing, I should say, I should add that we are planning faster inventory turns in 2024. So we anticipate that that comp headwind from lower clearance will continue to have an impact, especially in the first half of the year. We've factored that into our guidance, but I think it's worth calling out.

I would say that, in general, whenever a bricks and mortar competitor shuts down stores, that tends to help us. We would expect to pick up some of their traffic. But of course, the size of the impact depends upon which particular retailer, which specific geographies and which specific stores.

If a retailer closes stores that it has in more urban, lower to moderate income areas where we have a strong presence, then we would expect the impact to be bigger.

Stepping back, in terms of the overall outlook for bricks and mortar retail, we think it's likely that there are going to be a lot of store closures over the next two years. So like I say, in general, it's hard to be specific without looking at specific details. But in general, we would expect those closures to be a tailwind for us.

I think this is a very important question. You probably picked this up from the script, but I think how this customer performs this year is going to be very important to our business. This customer is critical for us.

As I said in the prepared comments, we think that their situation has improved versus last year. Back then, they were experiencing double-digit increases in the cost of everyday essentials – food, rent, transportation, et cetera. So we think that that pressure eased in the back half of last year and that that helped to underpin our trend. But I don't want to overstate that.

Discretionary spending levels for this segment of shoppers have been seriously impacted over the last two years. You can see that in the results of most retailers who serve that lower end customer.

I should also add that although the situation may have eased, those customers are still highly sensitive to things like timing of tax refunds, which obviously we just spoke about.

And although inflation has come down, I think it's going to take a bit of time, considerable time for that customer to really start to recover. So that sort of ties to something else that we talked about in the script and that we've responded to on some of the questions.

So we really think the incremental growth for our business this year is going to have to come from increased penetration with trade down customers. We think that's where the opportunity is. We think that's really what drove our comp in the second half of last year. And we think there's more opportunity for us there.

Let me close by thanking everyone on this call for your interest in Burlington Stores. We look forward to talking to you again in May to discuss our first quarter 2024 fiscal results.

Thank you for your time today.