Michael Doss
Graphic Packaging Holding Company (GPK) 2024 Investor Day and Q4 2023 Earnings Call (Transcript)

Yes. Look, our package manufacturing facilities are incredibly well capitalized. And if you think about our paperboard manufacturing facility, they are as well, particularly with what we've done with Kalamazoo and with Waco, we've got a significant cost advantage, as I mentioned, in the most attractive parts of the market. And really where our growth will come from Phil, in terms of the gains we make is all about innovation and driving this whole sustainability message that we have and what we talked about.

You heard Maggie go through a lot of the different examples in the markets where we compete. And that's why we broke that chart out because we want to talk more about the markets and how we're actually going to win in those different verticals because where the consumer goes, we go and we built that business purposely to allow us to be able to do that.

Steve, why don't you go ahead and take it.

It's really true. We got a lot of levers to pull there, too, with the cash flow that you outlined. And I was joking with George at the break. I said, I'll know that we've really established ourselves as a consumer packaging company when we move off the paper packaging list and we move into the packagers portion of it.

And so that's also part of how we're thinking about the goals that we laid out there today because you think about it, our goals and targets, our aspirations, the algorithm really lines up well with the customers that we're servicing.

Thank you for that.

Thank you for the question, George. Maggie, would you like to give us a little insight into some of the attractive markets that you're seeing and some of the growth we see along those verticals?

Well, look, why don't I take a piece of that. I think, George, you sum that question up perfectly. It's a competitive landscape out there. We compete every day for the right to win. And really, when you look over the last 7 years, the fact we've been able to post that 2% stack average over that period of time, I think, should give investors confidence that we've got some really good momentum in being able to do it.

Our confidence level that we can deliver the $200 million of innovation growth that you heard Maggie and Jean-Francois talk about for 2024, is high. Because as Steve said, we kind of know that locked in going into the year. The conversions have happened, so it kind of flows through -- Ricardo is smiling because he always has to give that to us in advance so that we can kind of go on it. And we've done that in some very different economic environments. '22, arguably a lot easier than '23, but we got it done in both years. So I think that's there.

To your question around foodservice and it's a good one, and that's really why I opened up with my comments about the price declarations for RISI. We expect our Foodservice business to be very busy this year. Again, there's less than 4% unemployment here in the U.S. market. The American consumer loves mobility. They love being on the go. They got a lot of things they're doing, and they appreciate the drive-through window a lot and the convenience that provides.

We've given you some good insights into some of the trials we've got going on with Chick-fil-A and others. And that we expect to be a flywheel for us for years to come. And that's why our Texarkana paperboard manufacturing facility is so important to us because we'll have the raw material that we're able to use all the way through that whole supply chain.

And it's another great example around the differentiation we make around where we choose to be backward integrated and where we don't because we can provide good growth to our customers and ultimately higher ROICs in cash flow.

No, I wouldn't say they're inelastic. I mean, again, it's a competitive market. It's packaging. But what I would say is that there's a general appreciation, particularly by our largest customers around the need for security of supply. The need for innovation and the need to help them accomplish their sustainability goals.

I hope when you see that waterfall up there, I mean, you know Graphic's DNA, we measure everything. And so being able to put that in, and the context around no, this is real, we're actually going to reduce this down, and you saw the Scope 3. Michelle had that on there. We need our suppliers to do the same thing. Guess who we are for most of our customers where that bar. And so the fact we bring those things is really valuable to them. And they understand that.

Like I said, we expect them to buy well, but they're willing to compensate us for those types of things that we do. And if we do start to see input cost inflation in the market. And I know that was a question we had over here from Mark earlier, we'll take price.

And that's -- our track record is really good at doing that. Look at what we did in '22, look at what we did in '23. So I think we've demonstrated an ability to do that, but it also comes back to making sure we're getting paid for the value we provide our customers and have an equal sharing on that. So it's a number of things.

Yes. So I think, look, Gabe, we've got a certain percentage of our portfolio that's up for contract renewal every year. It's almost like clockwork. Some years are a little heavier than others. But for the most part, I'd say it's 20%, 25% that is constantly rolling through. So it's not like that ever stopped during that process.

But what I was trying to do in my prepared remarks is really kind of paint a picture for where we were kind of bid ask, which is really the market we were in versus where we are now, which is a much more holistic supply position we have with our customers, deeper relationships with customers because it's needed for them to accomplish their goals as the world has gotten more enthralled with regulation, and it's been harder to reach customers. We have solutions that will help them do that.

So it's really not so much that we're just trying to, hey, look, we're changing all the vernacular because we want to and that's why Vision 2025 doesn't really even apply right now in many ways because it's -- some of those targets aren't ambitious enough and it's not aligned with how we run the company.

That algorithm, well simple in nature, is really hard to do. But if you can do it year in and year out, and that's why we put the stake in the ground today, it's incredible value creating. And that's what we want you to take away from. That's the commitment we're making today. And that means we have to manage a whole bunch of those little industry things that you're talking about, price cost, what the volumes do, how did this happen over here.

All of that gets encompassed in there. And we think it's a better way to talk about what we're doing. And that's why we want to make that shift to talk more about the markets because that's really what will drive the overall performance of the company over the long term.

Can you read that question again please.

No, maybe I just might add the really good response there. Steve made a couple of points in his prepared remarks that I just want to put a little emphasis on. He talked about 5% of sales is CapEx and 2% being a robust amount for kind of maintaining those assets. These are well-invested assets. We look at what we've done over the last 7 years. We're proud of our package converting facilities and our paperboard manufacturing facilities.

And if you think about it, Kalamazoo and Waco will be brand new. So that's a pretty long tail as you kind of wind that forward. So that difference between the 2 and the 5 is substantial in terms of the things that we can invest back in the business. So as we grow on the foodservice side, Maggie needs cup plants to kind of fill out that geographic piece, that's all in that 5% that we've rolled out there.

What Michelle talked about, the decarbonization, those 3 big projects that you put out there, that's in the 5%. So the cash flow that Steve kind of outlined on the ARC, I guess it was, which is pretty darn impressive. I mean it anticipates those investments and the things that we need to do to continue to deliver on those things for our customers. And so you asked about how we're positioned against other competitors. It's not just our paperboard packaging peers. It's really all consumer packaging companies, and we love the relative competitive positioning that we're in right now.

Sure. Yes. So again, the way to think about it, excellent question is, look, we've got Waco that's going to come to life here, ended '25 into '26 and on. So there's $160 million of EBITDA we committed to that will be there, that will drive some additional sales growth. The Rainier piece of that's accretive on top of that.

But look, we're committed to growing our volumes each and every year, and that starts in '24, and we gave you some insight into how we're thinking about it and why our confidence is there that we'll be able to do that. and we see that as accelerating and continuing to be accretive over that entire 7-year planning horizon. And our track record, as I talked you through, is solid for being able to do that.

And I think the only thing that's back-end loaded is a little bit of the cash flow because we're still in the investment phase. But if you adjust for '25 and '26, you kind of saw that ramp up to $1 billion of free cash flow a year in those outlying years, and that's why.

Look, I think I characterized that in the beginning pretty sharply. I mean it's not new for Graphic Packaging to not like third-party indexes. We've been talking about that for years. And as you can see by our value-based pricing model, we've been moving away from third-party indexes for years. So what I'm saying is that we don't agree with the assessment on foodservice for all the reasons that I've outlined here, foodservice cup stock, in particular, and it just strengthens our resolve to continue to move away from third-party indexes that are, in our opinion, historically inaccurate and very nontransparent in terms of how those things are generated and how they're scored. So I'd just say that's how I would answer that question.

And really the way I'd answer the second part of your question, which is a really good probing question in terms of how we think about that from a strategy standpoint is ultimately, this is consistent with our view. Our view is that recycled products in particular, are going to be at the heart of the most attractive part of the paperboard packaging market. And so the result was we made the investment in Kalamazoo and then we couldn't even see some of the things that we've got in Waco before we made the K2 investment.

So as we take that as a follow-on, our ability to continue to ramp up like our Rainier grade, you heard Maggie talk about, which competes with the very best premium SBS grades that are out there. It puts us in a situation where we're not doing those kind of trade-offs. That's where we're going to spend our time. We'll always convert some SBS. It's important. It's a good grade. We'll make some of it ourselves in Texarkana. And where we need more, we can always go to the open market and buy it because people are continuing to invest in that market.

You've got a North American producer that's building some, there's a European producer that's discussed about bringing another mill online. So we like how that positions us. And what you don't want to do with a new grade of paperboard like Rainier start to cannibalize what you're already doing. So this really fits us well, and it's consistent with our overall strategy around driving long-term customer investments that help them drive the innovation as well as higher ROICs and more consistent cash flow.

Yes. So I'm going to hit that first and then you can add on, on that. When you're -- look, we work with our customers all the time to try to get the best insights that they've got around what their overall demand profiles going to be. But there are times that, quite frankly, they don't necessarily know. I mean, things shift kind of quickly here, and they want to be able to be responsive to their end-use consumer.

And so that was that flex capacity that I talked about that we've got to make sure that we have something we learned as we kind of came through COVID. Our customers need us to be able to do that. I love the question, though, because ultimately, the closer we get to the customer here, the deeper we have, the more integrated we are into their business, and there are some cases where our overall demand planning models are actually connected now, and you'll see us do more of that in the future where we're closer to they sell one, we make one. It is ultimately something that we strive to achieve. And you probably want to add on that one.

There's a question in the back.

Well, yes, I think, look, if you look at Augusta, I mean, both mills are roughly the same size. [indiscernible] $20 because -- I've said it twice. You noticed that I have to change too. I'm not using that word. And we have paperboard manufacturing facilities. But -- they're both about the same size, roughly 600,000 tons.

If you look at the Texarkana facility, it actually is indexed about 400,000 tons of cup stock and then the balance, of course, coated. So it fits us perfectly with what we're doing. And as Steve said, and we've talked about publicly is our pivot is we would prefer to run more comp out of that facility, and we'll either make Rainier for the grades that need that kind of premium paperboard and Maggie showed you the kind of end-use markets that we're really targeting for that.

Or if we need to buy some of paperboard on the market, we can do that. And as we've demonstrated in Europe, we can get really good ROICs by doing that. We're one of the largest purchasers of paperboard in the world. We buy it well. We know who to source it from. And ultimately, we benefit and being able to do that. So we've got a lot of great options, I guess, is the punch line.

There's less people that make it for sure. It's a complicated grade because one of the things you got to be able to do is make the brim around the top, and that requires some real knowledge of material science and the type of furnish you use in that whole process.

And in the case of our business, it's a highly integrated model. Almost 95% of all that material goes through our own cup plants, which again gives me the ire that I talked about earlier around the third-party scoring a market like that when we know exactly where all that material is going.

So most of it is coming to ourselves. So it's a very attractive market and one that's growing, as I talked about in my answer to George in terms of overall demand. Every quarter, over the last 3 years, we've shown growth in our foodservice business, including the one we're in now.

Thank you, George, why don't you take the first one.

Yes. And look, we've got the customer base in there, you'll look to true that up. So I get the point, it's a good one, and we'll give some thought to that and how best to do that. In terms of the other 2 questions, I mean, in terms of Rainier, I'm really excited about that one. As you know, I'm a printer. And when we look at kind of the surface of that particular sheet, and Maggie did a really nice job going through the different markets where we think we can penetrate that.

I'm hesitant to give you a tonnage figure because I want to move away from that, but it's definitely all [indiscernible] to our benefit in terms of package sales. And that is actually one of those substrates that we would seek to sell on the external market because it's not available from anybody else. We make it. Others don't have it. And so it makes sense for us to actually make that available, and we'll do that kind of going forward here.

So I think it's got a lot of promise. And we've already got our first commercial application. You got a dozen or so trials underway. So we're quite encouraged with what we see. I'll hit the first part, and then Michelle, I'd like you to kind of respond to this. George, it's a good point. Everybody is sustainable. Every presentation you go to, they've got it out there. I want to know, do they have the detail that we laid out here. We just laid out a very good waterfall with discrete bespoke projects that show you how we're going to get there, and we told you how we're going to pay for it within the CapEx that we laid out there.

It's one thing to say it. It's another thing to do it. And so from our standpoint, that's what you can count on us doing. Michelle laid it out really well. And we know exactly what we need to do in order to do it, and it comes with cost of capital type returns. It's not knock your socks off stuff, but the mere effect, we can decarbonize the way we did, and we can earn cost of capital that's a pretty great position to be in.

And so I think the best way I can answer your question, I don't know everybody else's stuff, but I know ours. And I think the more transparent other companies are in terms of the claims that they're making, actually, I think, shines light on it and I'll let you as analysts and ultimately, the investors and our customers, the end-use customers actually be able to make those decisions.

And consumers. Thank you. Yes. That's really a good point, Maggie. Michelle, anything you would add over and above that?

The other thing I'd add, George, to piggyback on those comments, too, is if you think about what we're doing at our Waco paperboard manufacturing facility, we've had a vertical drum pulping system we're going to install there. We're going to be able to take up to 15 million paper cups a day. You heard Michelle talk about that. That's going to be the top wire fiber, which right now today for most people who manufacture that paperboard is sorted office paper, which is going the way like this, right, from an availability standpoint, which means the price is going up like this.

So if you're a consumer and you heard Michelle talk about one of our customers that manufactures that, you want to know that your stuff is actually going back and being reused again. We're going to be able to show that within about a 200-mile radius of that mill and the mill we have in Kalamazoo, we'll have the capability to bring that stuff back, clean it up and put it back into first line packaging again.

It's not downgraded somewhere into a park bench, planking. And I'm not disparaging that. I mean look, that's important, too. But the consumer, as you talked about, really cares about, hey, can I use this? Do I have a license to feel good about this paper cup I've got in my hand. And if they know that, that's actually happening and you talked about a very learned person who didn't have that perspective. That actually makes a big difference.

That's incumbent upon people like Graphic Packaging, leaders in consumer packaging to make those kind of investments back in our business so that we can actually say that kind of stuff. Not that we're saying someone else needs to do it or the taxpayer needs to do it. We're going to do that, and we compete in those markets every day for that fiber and our customers are really excited about that. So I think ask for the details because they matter. And you can't ignore the whole upstream operation because when we lay ours out, we're looking at it from beginning to end. That's pretty exciting.

Well, listen, it's been fantastic to be here today at the NYSE. It never gets old for me to be here. It's our third time, Steve, I think, doing this. We had some new speakers today. I thought they did a great job. Really appreciate everybody's input. Thank you for coming and for all of you on the web. Thank you for your interest in Graphic Packaging. It's exciting time to be a part of the company, and I'm actually more than thrilled to have the opportunity to lead such a fine group of people each and every day. So have a great rest of the day.