Michael Nierenberg
Rithm Capital Corp. (RITM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Current cash on hand, we announced at the end of Q4 were roughly $1.9 billion. Today, I think our cash and liquidity is something about $1.7 billion and so that's kind of where we stand. We expect the SLS acquisition to fund most likely in early March.

Yeah, it's probably $400 million, Bose. One of the things that we set out over the quarter of the past couple of years is to carry excess cash and liquidity during our balance sheet. We've done that. We really haven't hit the capital markets since 2020. Clearly, we're monitoring some -- in the mortgage company, well for example, some of the peers that have been out there raising capital in the high-yield markets. So we'll continue to evaluate all sources of capital. And then also keep in mind, as we grow our alt space, the teams are on the road and having discussions with various LPs and -- around capital formation. So I think you could expect 2024 to be a year of some capital formation at the Rithm level as well as at some of the other operating companies as well as Sculptor.

Goodwill and intangibles, approximately $325 million.

You bet. Thanks, Bose.

I'll let Baron take it in a sec. I think when you look at the recapture business of whether it'd be us or anybody else in the marketplace, you have to look at apples-to-apples. 99% of our portfolios added the money including the SLS stuff from a recapture standpoint or added the money from a refinancing standpoint, I should say. When you think historically in the mortgage business, refi recapture depending upon the product type, Ginnie Mae or a HUD type loans are typically easier because those are easier to refinance or recapture, and you've seen that with some of our peers in the marketplace over the years. So those numbers are going to be higher. On Fannie Freddie products, typically, those recapture numbers are a little bit lower. The cohort of recapture today are significantly added the money just based on where rates were and where they are now. So when we think about recapture, I think you could assume that our refi recapture numbers are going to be north of 50% and I think purchase recapture is a much more difficult thing. It's something that we continue to work on. Huge -- we have a huge group of folks in our data business as well as the servicing folks are working with the origination folks. But I think overall, you're going to see refi recapture in a normalized market, probably with a six handle would be my guess. And I think that's consistent with where the industry has been and knowing that because we helped form some of these companies in my prior life, in our prior life. And I think you'll see on the Ginnie Mae product higher numbers. Baron, I don't know if there's anything you want to add there.

Yeah. I'm not -- I think we all do what we do. We're all respectful of each other. We've been -- the -- whether it be Cooper, whether it be Penny and some of the other folks who've all been at it a long time. When we look at the high-yield market and we look at where we're financed, SOFR today is 5.25, 5.5. So if you think about your MSR financing, let's assume it's whatever, 250 to 300 over. So that's give or take, 8%. If we could issue a high-yield unsecured debt in the public markets, we're going to explore that heavily. So the short answer to your question is we're hungry.

Thanks, Eric.

Sure. So I think if you look at Q4, the 10-year close, I think, at like 388 or 389, something like that. So you had a massive rally between Q3 and Q4. Our GAAP results reflected our write-down of our MSR book which was significantly higher than the $88 million that we reported in kind of the GAAP loss. So it's really an MSR mark. When I look at -- when you think about that, that $88 million versus I think the total mark we took it down was 280 or something like that, which I think is probably a little bit higher than others in the industry, that 280 million versus the 88 shows you that when we look at the broad scale of our business, we have a lot of other assets from a duration perspective that we're longer. When you look at Q1, and Nick, you should just -- if you could dust out what we think the P&L is as of now. When we look at Q1 from a hedging perspective, we have rates, we have mortgages that are hedging out our MSR book. As -- and when I -- what I said in my opening remarks, whereas as close to home as we've been in a few years. That is because we have billions and billions of dollars of hedges versus our MSR asset. For the quarter, you could assume and this reflects the hedges. Book value is probably where we are now is north of $12 a share. So that reflects the gains that you're going to see in both the MSR book as well as what we're seeing in our hedges.

I think what I would say from a market perspective, I thought the past -- or we felt, the past couple of years from an overall market standpoint, listening to the Fed was why we were set up to be on the short side. Listening to the Fed now, there's -- obviously, there's a ton of Fed speak about their desire to lower rates, even though when you look at the economy or you go out for dinner here in New York City or anywhere else, things feel pretty good. When you look at the probability rate cuts, we think March is off the table barring some unforeseen geopolitical event or something else. June right now, when you look at the probability of a rate cut is at 90%. So we're not going to fight the Fed. We will be closer to home, everywhere from a duration standpoint because, again, we won't fight the Fed, and we think from an edge standpoint, you're going to see a lot more volatility in the markets this year than -- or going into the end of Q4 as well as into this year versus what we've seen in the past couple of years. Past couple of years, it was straight up. Now it's a little bit harder to predict. So we're going to be close to home.

Thanks, Doug.

Hey, Kevin, it's going to -- I think our -- not that I think, I know. Our business will continue to evolve. We closed Sculptor at the end of -- I think at the end of November. The way -- we want to simplify our story and our structure, and that's why I think Nick created these different columns or verticals in our financial reporting. Sculptor, there's obviously a huge desire. One, to put up great results, number two, to grow AUM. That is going to be our asset management business. The REIT itself currently sits as a REIT. What you could expect from us over time, and I think we've been pretty vocal about that. To become, I think, a world-class asset manager, we need to continue to simplify our story. We need to raise funds, the REIT is going to be the REIT, and it's no different than some of the larger players in the marketplace whether it be Blackstone or Ares or folks like that. I do think when we look at our pipeline of opportunity in everything that we do, things are going to continue to change for sure. And our sole -- not our sole goal, but our goal is to grow our asset management business and the fees associated with that because that's going to drive a higher terminal value on our underlying business. But again, we need to lead with performance. And one of the reasons I wanted to highlight in our deck to performance, both at the Sculptor level and the Rithm level because the results are terrific, and we have what I would call really good investment professionals across both platforms. Things could come together over time. But for now, it's onward and upward. So things will change, but I think you could assume that will be something closer to -- we're not going to be Blackstone, obviously, but a Blackstone-type structure or an Ares-type structure.

Yeah. And we're starting to see that now, right?

And the other thing, Kevin, is when you look at the platform on all the different origination businesses, for example, we just made some strategic changes in the retail platform, taking expenses out and trying to align that business with the goals of the company, which, quite frankly, is profitability. The other thing is there's obviously the variability on -- way you produce your MSRs and how you think about gain on sale there. So there are levers that you could pull that would obviously drive higher earnings in the origination segment versus low earnings in the servicing segment.

Thanks.

So first, on the Sculptor side, yeah, the -- everybody is out meeting with clients and LPs around the platform, which is wonderful. The real estate guys have a fund there out-marketing. It's a -- I believe it's something around a $3 billion fund that could grow over time. The credit businesses continue to grow -- look to grow the funds there. You're not going to grow -- I mean the noise is gone, right? So we're moving forward. Whatever was in the past at the organization is out, gone, moving forward. So I'm -- we're highly confident and really excited about the prospects of growing AUM, but more on the FRE side. But you have to lead with performance. So and what I said in the opening remarks and this goes for every -- any one of the businesses that we have where we are fiduciaries of capital, whether it be LPs or public shareholders. First and foremost, we need to drive good earnings there and good returns. And when you look at '23 and looking prior to that both at the Sculptor level as well as at the Rithm level, we've delivered there. So that's going to help us grow AUM. I don't have a specific target. I'd love to tell you it's -- you hear the bigger players talk out how much dry powder and how big their AUM is. Yeah, we'd like to be there, we're just not right now. But I think over time, we're going to grow those businesses. We could grow strategically through some acquisitions, which we look at acquisitions, I would say, every single day. So I think you could expect more acquisitions as we go forward in the asset management space. The teams we currently have in place are world class. If you look at the results at the asset management level and here at the Rithm level, I'd put us up against anybody candidly, and this is not being -- disparaging against anyone. When you look at the retail side, retail is a hard business. We -- we've taken some pretty aggressive measures here beginning of the year to align the production side with proper P&L that we expect out of the business. And when you look at the overall business with SLS, the third-party business as well as what we have here between both the Rithm level and the Newrez level, I think, and including excess MSRs that we have, I think we have something about $850 billion or some number like that of MSR. So we have a lot of customers we should be able to drive origination volumes through. If something was a giveaway from -- on the retail side that we felt we could actually make money with, we'd have a hard look at it. But I think now we're pretty happy where we are. We are actively recruiting salespeople because we do think mortgage origination will pick up over time.

On the SLS side, we haven't closed yet. So what I would say is there's going to be significant synergies and saves, I think, around that line of business. We're looking at other platforms that I think are going to be able to add revenue to the business and same. Those should do -- those should -- if we're successful, that will add additional synergies and create more expense saves. At the Sculptor level, Sculptor is its own thing from an asset management standpoint. It's -- as we go forward and we could create synergies between, for example, shared services. When I look at the fortress model and that's where we came from, we had a good shared service model, and I think we'll continue to look at things around that. The investment teams though are going to be the investment teams.

Thank you.

So there's -- I think there's a ton of opportunities. I mean office is obviously for sale, for example. We've looked at a number of different opportunities in office because most folks are shying away from that. When we look at the real estate market today, what I would say is we equate it to some of the best investing environments we've seen in -- quite frankly, in our careers. And this takes us back to -- I'm not sure everybody on this call is born, but the early '90s, which were the RTC days when the government was liquidating all these thrifts, those were great opportunities to deploy capital. You look at the great financial crisis. You look at the dotcom crisis, you look at where we are today with rates. And as a result of COVID and people not being in the office, there's great, great opportunities. As the banks write some of their assets down, I think what you're going to find over time is once they write them down, they would look to part with them off their balance sheet as long as they're not strategic. We've done some investing in the office space recently around the debt side where we've looked at, for example, a deal that was originated a few years back with a, I think, a total market cap of about $2.4 billion. And we just -- we acquired a pool of debt with the first dollar of loss at roughly $900 million. So if you think about that $2.4 billion to $900 million, stuff down significantly. And as long as you think you have the expertise to underwrite it, we're going to deploy capital there. The real estate guys on the Sculptor side, they're out, doing their thing around both equity and debt. And again, the story is the same. We're in one of the better real estate investing environments that we've seen in our careers. There is a need for funding because whether it be some of the traditional real estate players who have a fair amount of legacy commercial real estate are going to be less aggressive in certain areas or when you look at the banks who are going to be less aggressive, I think, it puts us in a great place between both Rithm and Sculptor to take advantage of these opportunities.

Anything that can be synergistic with our existing business that we think. We have the pieces in place to win at both the Sculptor and Rithm level. We don't need anything else. I think part of this is as we think about real earnings for shareholders. When you look at the way we trade, quite frankly, I think that we trade poorly from an equity perspective. If we could change the narrative where we trade more like an alternative asset manager and you pick up several multiples versus EBITDA, I think we're going to be, I think the opportunity for us and our shareholders and LPs is a great one. So that's how we're thinking about it. But the scope of the real estate guys are world class, the credit guys are world class, the master fund and Jimmy and that team, I mean we have all the pieces in place. At the Rithm level, I'm saying Charles is here with me. I think we all punch above our weight. We have a world class team, and we don't really need anything else. It's just more what can be accretive for our equity holders in the business.

Yeah. I think scale wins in those business lines. I mentioned earlier, this year should be, give or take, $2.5 billion or so in our origination business. I do think there are -- there will be platforms and/or people, honestly, we don't need a -- you don't need a lending platform if you have the platform, if you could acquire teams of people which I know we're currently looking at -- looking to do right now.

Thank you.

There's constant dialogue between what I would call the asset management business under Sculptor and at the Rithm level as we think about the balance sheet and balance sheet investing. I brought up the SFR funds for example, that we're likely going to grow that business away from the public company. I think there was an article about a large -- one of the larger asset managers raising money $1 billion fund around the build-to-rent space. We intend to do something similar there. On the MSR side, we will -- we continue to evaluate MSR funds candidly. I mean, when you look at where you create these, they're created anywhere from an 8% to 10% unlevered type of yield. So you got to make sure that resonates with folks. There are -- you need to have the operating business and have a great recapture/origination business in our mind to make this work. We've had these discussions with a number of folks. I've been overseas four times in the past year. So we've had a ton of these discussions and we'll continue to do so. But it has to work within our business. The last thing I'll point out, when you look at the Sculptor business, we have credit funds. The credit funds have restructured products in them. Some of the best results there are when they take advantage of, for example, the March 2020 period during COVID, when assets were essentially a giveaway and the team counts on those and created great results. So we don't necessarily need a dedicated fund per se when we have the credit funds and we have the real estate funds at the Sculptor level or the multi-strat fund.

If we could do it in two weeks, we would do it in two weeks. It's going to take some time. We can -- listen, do we need the biggest balance sheet? The answer is no. Does the balance sheet help? The answer is yes. We look at strategic things that we could do together. No different than I think the large -- the larger players in the old space. When we look at things that we could do together with the Sculptor folks, there are things we will do together at those levels. It's going to take -- it will take some time. Ideally, you'd want to do more in the so-called the fund business. The other thing I -- just to point out, one of the beautiful things about our business is we do have $7 billion of permitting capital from an equity perspective. And I think that's highly valuable. So as we look going forward, if we could create more vehicles that are going to give us what I would call permanent equity from a permanent capital standpoint, we'll continue to look at that as well. But transferring or not transferring, just creating more assets off balance sheet, I think, is going to help from a valuation standpoint as well.

Thank you.

We signed the deal. Things are happening as we speak now. We're going to try to concentrate geography more so than to have geography across every state here in the US but things continue and we expect that integration to be pretty seamless because it's a servicing business for the most part. When you look at our servicing sites, we have Greenville, South Carolina. We got Fort Washington in PA, we got Tempe, Arizona and then we have a couple of sites in Texas. Those are our main sites. I think you could assume that it's going to continue that way. But acquiring a servicing asset and putting under servicing platform is a lot different from going out and acquiring full-scale operating businesses.

Thank you.

I think that on the managed funds, that business will continue to run itself. Steve Orbuch and Nick Hecker and their team will continue to run their business the way that they do. We look at some one-off stuff here on the Rithm balance sheet that this is not where one division is going to compete with the other. They do very, very different things than I think, for example, I brought up this debt deal that we did. They do very different things than I think what you're going to see on the Rithm balance sheet. If you recall, we -- about -- at the end of '22, we brought in a world-class group of folks at -- which was -- which is named GreenBarn, David Welsh and Dave Schonbraun and their team who have been instrumental in some of the stuff that we've looked at here. So I think you're going to see some investment on the Rithm balance sheet. Clearly, we want to grow the funds business, and Steve and Nick will continue to do what they do and the results stand for themselves. So it will be a different type of investing business. And I think what you see there, there could be times when we partner, no different than, I think, what you'd see at -- for example, at Blackstone and some of their private funds and what they do between the private funds and their REIT.

Thanks for joining. A lot of good dialogue, some good questions. Any follow-up, you know how to reach us. Appreciate the support and have a great day. Thanks, everyone.
