Michael Ure
Western Midstream Partners, LP (WES) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think a couple of comments. Yes, we do see 2023 and 2024 as higher expected capital periods relative to go forward rate and really the reasons behind that are because of the two new plants that we're building that we're building that we believe are going to be able to sustain the growth level that we're expecting into the future. And so, as you look at 2025 and beyond, all things considered based on our current expectations, we would expect that capital would actually be reduced relative to the higher levels that we seen in 2023 and 2024.

Yes, I would just look from a capital perspective, I'd probably turn you to 2022, which was a period of growth for us, but did not include the significant capital associated with building new plants as an indicative amount of capital what it might look like on a sustainable basis going forward. We still again believe that's going to results in positive outcomes from free cash flow generation point-of-view going forward, which is to your point the incident or the commentary that we made around the sustainability of the distribution at that level and even the potential for increased distributions going forward.

Yes, we've actually always held the perspective that those assets were non-core to us that obviously we see great value in them, but they're not core to us. And so, should someone see more value in those assets than we do, then we would divest of them similar to what we did at the end of 2022 as well. And so, we do have some equity method investments that we've retained. We maintain the same perspective around those that they have great value to us, but shouldn't someone else see greater value than what we do then we would look to divest them in the future.

Yes. So I'd reiterate again the comment that I would probably turn you to 2022 is the best sort of indicative levels for us. As you think about a sustaining with even a lean towards growth in terms of the amount of capital necessary and that's a call it about a $0.5 billion of capital range. So, that's the best guidance that I think we can give to you as it relates to what we would expect for a sustained level to be in the absence of some of the chunkier sort of capital projects like the two plants we are building right now.

Yes. So a couple of things that went into that and we did a lot of analysis together with our board to take a look at it. And really it focused on number one, we put out a target a couple of years ago of where we would like to be from a leverage standpoint at the end of 2024 and that was at 3x. The 3x level we think is on the lower end, but gives us the flexibility to be able to continue to grow our business and even offers opportunity for us to buyback units opportunistically and continue to support and sustain the businesses as it relates to inorganic opportunities on the M&A side.

And so, as we took a look at the health of the business, we took a look at the asset divestitures and targeted where we might be able to achieve a 3x leverage level exiting 2024. That's where we came out at the $3.50 level. Then we sensitize that on a go forward basis relative to expectations and have confidence that is a sustained level going forward and frankly even provides an opportunity for us to grow that even further into the future.

Yes, I think I'd probably point you to the recent past in that regard. I think from our standpoint, we have incredible confidence in the culture, the team, our operational capabilities to be able to go out there and acquire bolt-on acquisitions in areas which we operate that we can enhance our existing position, drive synergies through the system and then increase our free cash flow going forward. So, obviously, we're constantly scouring the landscape to be able to be open to opportunities where we can continue to do that similar to what we saw in the Meritage acquisition.

We would expect that once Mentone III comes online that plant is largely full. So, I think that should give you a pretty good sense for an offload volume perspective. As we see here today, we actually believe that with North Loving Train I coming online that we're sufficient to be able to handle the growth that we're projecting expecting going forward. So between Mentone III coming online shortly and then, North Loving Train I, we think that that sets us up nicely to be able to handle the growth that we're seeing in our asset base.

So our board is set up. We have three OXY appointees that are on the board and then the remaining five of the eight are non- OXY employees including myself.

We don't currently foresee the need to be doing offloads after North Loving I is completed. We believe that the capacity that we'll have will be able to handle the growth and volumes that we're currently expecting.

So the revenue recognition that was an impact to EBITDA on the fourth quarter is actually a non-cash item. So that is just trying to align the expected revenues that should have been booked based on expectations and weren't. And so that's actually a non-cash adjustment that occurs with any of our cost of service contracts that have demand payments. So no cash associated with that.

Kristen, anything else you'd add on that?

So the way that the enhanced distribution framework was intended was to set a distribution level that we believe was sustainable going forward. And now that the business has continued to perform and we expect it to perform, that's where we're expecting to recommend that to the $3.50 level on an annualized basis.

The enhanced distribution was intended to be where if the business does outperform and we can't find and we can't find another use for that capital that we were going to return it back to our investors. And so I think your question and your comment there definitely accurately captures the way that we're thinking about it. So, we take an assessment on a quarterly basis to be able to take a look at the health of the business and what it is that we believe that we can sustain going forward. Should it outperform relative to that and should we not find another use for that capital, that's when we would pay the enhanced distribution on an annual determination.

So, first comment there as it relates to the comfortability, I would just correct maybe one item there and that is that we don't expect that the base distribution encompasses greater than our free cash flow generation on a go forward basis. And so that's part of the level of comfort that the board and the management team has in recommending that level is that we do expect that our free cash flow generation throughout the projected period actually does exceed the distribution level.

For this year, you did point out the $790 million coming in the Delaware and what that really did is it allowed us to get down to a leverage level when combined with the expected growth from EBITDA and free cash flow for the year to exit 2024 at or around 3x. And so that's really more in light of the Meritage acquisition. This is a way for us to effectively recycle that capital that we spent on Meritage by selling our equity method investments that are non-operated and sold at a much higher multiple to bring down that leverage to where we could get to a more sustainable leverage level and then pay distribution that we believe is commensurate with the free cash flow generation of the business, plus the ability to be able to lever other -- pull other levers as it relates to growth capital, M&A and buybacks as a whole.

As it relates to the GP, I would say it's a very interactive level that we have with all of our board members, not just the GP as it relates to the health of the business, as it relates to what it is that we think is in the best interest of WES. We've had great support both from all of our board members, both non- OXY and OXY board members as it relates to trying to drive value overall for WES as a whole. And this is definitely a decision that was driven exclusively with the purpose of trying to drive value to our unitholders collectively in light of the incredible performance of the business and the leverage reduction that occurred as a result of the sell down of the assets.

As we projected today, you're right and that we will have Mentone III that will largely be full when it opens up. There will still be some offloads as a bridge to when we get North Loving out there. And then according to our projections with the inclusion of North Loving, we believe today as it relates to the volume forecast that we have that that should be sufficient for us from a processing standpoint. Should obviously we get incremental commitments, incremental growth then at that point there would be additional need for us to build a plant. But as we look at it today, we don't need that.

We are projecting even if you looked Selman on an annualized full annual 2023 basis compared to 2024, we actually do still project growth in the Powder River Basin 2024 on 2023. That's as it relates to both volume growth as well as EBITDA. So, we highlighted in there some of the synergies that we were able to achieve already for that acquisition and incremental opportunities that we believe may be available to us going forward. So from an EBITDA and a free cash flow growth, there's even better growth than what you might expect just from a throughput standpoint.

I would just actually highlight that the fourth quarter last year was actually the most successful quarter. I think, since those new rules came into play as it relates to the number of new permits that were achieved. And so, I think that there is increased confidence in the process that it would take. We always expected that there would be a little bit of time for companies to get familiar with what it is that it was going to take to get those approvals through. And actually the fourth quarter of last year, I think there was a lot of positivity in light of the fact that there was the most that were achieved in any other period.

So a couple of comments on that. You're right in that the commentary from OXY is a portfolio wide or a basin wide expectation, not just specific to the areas in which WES operates and its partners with OXY. There's a couple of comments I would make around it. First of all, the well performance as we highlighted has been very strong under the assets that WES services. In addition, 2023 was really the first year where they had the elevated level of activities. If you actually go back to the beginning of 2022, it was roughly half of the activity that then got stepped up around midyear of 2022. And so, you have the full year now of 2023 of that increased higher activity levels where you're seeing obviously an exit rate we exited much higher than we entered 2023. And so those tailwinds along with that continued expected activity is part of the reasons why you're seeing a lot of the growth coming out of the Delaware Basin.

I would also highlight, we mentioned it in the prepared remarks that we've added a pretty meaningful amount of third-party business coming into it. And so, as we take a look at our third-party business has actually grown, the volumes on the third-party side have actually grown at double the pace of the Permian as a whole over the past couple of years. And so, for us, what it is that we're doing to focus on growing the pie as a whole for all customers and then emphasizing what it is that we can do that we're really unique in terms of our offering, our customer service focus has resulted in new third-party volumes that is accelerating that growth profile relative to what you might expect from a basin wide perspective.

So a couple of things. Actually for 2024, we're really expecting growth across all of our operated assets, irrespective of area or basin. And so we're quite optimistic as it relates to the performance of those assets, not only for 2024 as we look into future periods as well. And so that's part of the reason why there's great confidence in the sustainability at this stage for the distribution increase of $3.50 and why we think that there may even be incremental opportunities to increase that further into the future.

Thank you all for joining the all. I want to again express my appreciation for all of the WES employees for their extra strong effort to put us in the position that we are today. We look forward to speaking with you three months from now to discuss the results of our first quarter 2024 performance. Thank you all.