Michael Stubblefield 
Regions Financial(AVTR) CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Yes, Dan, thanks for the question. This is Michael. I think as we've been saying throughout the last year or so, they have seemingly been moving in similar directions. In the lab segment, of course, that's going to be the lab consumables where there was the excess inventory. We've seen that coming down at the very similar rates as what we see on the single-use offerings that we have in our bioprocessing platform.
And our interactions with our customers would indicate kind of very similar dynamics in terms of where their inventory help stands, which as we've noted, continues to improve quarter-by-quarter.

Maybe the one different dynamic I might call out within the bioprocessing business is as you move downstream from our materials, I think part of what we're seeing in our business is continual work down of our customers' inventory of drug - substance inventories that were built during the pandemic, and we see that improving as well. But that's probably the only different dynamics that I might call out between what we're seeing in lab versus the production segment.
Yes. Tejas, good morning. Thanks for joining the call today. On your first question regarding the minus two at the low end of our full year guide, really, what you're picking up there is just the year-over-year comparables. Q1 last year was the high watermark and it - things deteriorated a bit as we move throughout the year, some of the cautious spending patterns work their way in.
The way we've guided the business consistent with Brent's remarks, is kind of looking at where we exited the year, assuming that, that continues throughout the year, plus a modest contribution from price. So that range kind of reflects, just I would say, normal volatility in the business, the impact of the price and then just the year-over-year comparables.

Yes, maybe we'll take the reverse order. Consistent with kind of our long-term algorithm, we're assuming kind of 1 to 2 points of price flowing into our outlook for the year. And then I would say probably nothing out of the ordinary to call out regarding the new customer wins. I think they're in line with the pricing and margins of the rest of the business. Nothing specific notable there.

Yes, Vijay, thanks for the question. Thanks for joining the call today. I think it's important to just start with, we continue to be extremely bullish on this space. We're coming off another year of record approvals and the pipelines are full and a lot of new modalities are getting traction.
I think it's also important to recognize the trends we've seen in the order book as we talked about over the last couple of months, Q4 order rate of intake did improve sequentially from Q3, and we've seen that trend continue into the early days of Q1. But to be clear, we've not yet seen what we would consider to be a step change in the order book.

We finished the year, last year with what I would think is probably best in class performance for that platform down mid-single digits. And we're expecting kind of similar performance in the year ahead. And the way we've guided - way that gets reflected in our guidance, of course, is looking at kind of exit run rates at the end of '23, flowing that through on a full year basis with modest benefit coming from pricing.
The quarter numbers, while the absolute numbers are going to look pretty similar, on a rate basis, you will see a step down in Q1, just given the comparable of what we're running into on a year-over-year basis. So Q1 is going to want to be down probably mid-teens, Vijay, but not because we see a difference in the revenue, just the year-over-year math that flows into that. So assuming a full year of down mid-single digits.
Yeah, not because of…

Yes, the guidance assumes similar absolute revenues throughout the year, Vijay, you might see a little bit based on a number of days in the quarter or how the pricing phases in. You might see some differences there. But nothing fundamentally different from an underlying demand perspective. Of course, the way we've guided it does imply that you're going to be roughly flattish by the time you exit the year, but not because we're forecasting an inflection in the order book.

Yes. Thanks for the question. I think the trend has continued when we look at the input we're getting from our customers, the inventory help, as I noted in my prepared remarks, does continue to improve. We haven't yet seen an inflection or what would consider to be an inflection. We continue to see sequential improvement in the order book. But nothing that we would consider to be a step change.

Relative to your last point around just performance of the business relative to the peer set, our 2023 performance, I think, speaks for itself, although we're not jumping up and down with a business that's down mid-single digits, I think you'll find that as best-in-class relative to other players that are exposed to the space. And even if you account for maybe more limited exposure to China, I still think that, that statement holds up.

So we've had a long-standing track record here, at least over the last decade of outgrowing the broader bioprocessing end market by 300 to 400 basis points. And I think that's reflected again in the 2023 numbers. I can't speak to the ins and outs of how others have guided the year ahead, but I'm confident that our business will hold up as well as anybody's here and likely outperform as we have done in previous years.

Yes. So a couple of time periods that we've talked about in terms of sequential improvement in order book. Firstly, from a Q4 to - relative to Q3, we definitely did see a modest improvement in the rate of order intake, and we've seen that trend of sequential improvement continue into Q1, albeit at a slower rate of improvement than what we would hope for that would ultimately enable us to call for a full recovery here.

But we're encouraged. I think the activity levels remain strong. Customer sentiment remains quite positive. And we're certainly - our teams are certainly busy working with our customers on supporting their new innovations.

From a book-to-bill perspective, I don't think that's something that we've typically or historically quoted. So I don't have a number to give you on that. But we do continue to see modest improvements in the rate of order intake.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Patrick. My conviction on what I've said before about where we see things exiting 2025 is unchanged. We would see us in that time period performing at or better than kind of where we were at in 2021 on both top line and margins, which does set us up for a year in 2026 with adjusted EBITDA margin performance above 20%.

The end market fundamentals remain robust, which is something I certainly look at to support our view that a recovery is coming. Again, record levels of new drug approvals, really robust pipelines, positive customer sentiments. When we look at funding environment, I think, has stabilized some pockets, including some of the biotech capital market funding levels improving.

I think there's a lot of encouraging leading indicators here, and we've taken an approach here to guide the year not trying to call the timing of recovery and would consider that upside when it happens.

But as we think about over the course of the next couple of years, we are optimistic about the recovery and when you look at the margin rate that we've guided to for 2026, we can largely get there just with the self-help measures that we've talked about at Investor Day, and we spend a little bit more time on here today. So we remain quite optimistic about what we've said about this recovery period.

All right. As we've said before, semis is a relatively small portion of our business, although it did take up a disproportionate amount of the airtime in 2023, just given how aggressively that end market took out their excess inventories. Similar dynamics is what we see in the life sciences space. They just moved a bit more aggressively to reset the inventories on the back end of the supply chain reset.

As we noted, as we move kind of through the back half of the year and certainly in Q4, we have seen the business improve, and we expect a return to modest growth in 2024, which as we realize that certainly is factored into our guidance just given the trending that we saw at the end of the year. And hopefully, it's a platform that we don't need to spend a whole lot of time talking about in the year ahead.

A couple of things I would say on that, Rachel. Firstly, I would reiterate the positive customer sentiment and just the level of activity that we're seeing with our customers continues to be encouraging. And when I think about R&D budgets and the discussions we're having with our customers on that front, I think the majority of them are anticipating modest growth of R&D budgets, albeit maybe a bit second half weighted. We've not tried to reflect that in our outlook, and we'll bank that as upside as things improve throughout the year.

Relative to what we've seen in the early days of the year, I'd say it's consistent with the with the run rates that we experienced at the end of the year. And certainly, that's reflected in our guidance or the direction that the Brent provided on what we're anticipating for Q1. Order books continue to modestly improve, but we've not yet seen an inflection point, but very consistent trending - moving sequentially from Q4 to Q1.

Matt, a couple of things I would say about that end market. Our exposure is principally into two types of workflows: One, kind of QA/QC workflows to support our customers' testing of their finished goods. And then similar to our bioprocessing or other life science platforms, we also have custom materials that are specked into our customers' manufacturing process. In the case of aerospace and defense, that's certainly true where we provide some extremely high-performance, high purity materials that are specked into those platforms. And so that reflects just the continued growth and momentum and positioning of our technology in that space.
The other thing to call out probably for the quarter is a sequential improvement in the semiconductor end market that I mentioned earlier in response to one of the questions that had been such a drag on the business throughout the year, just given the inventory reset and certainly seeing some of the benefits of that modest improvements coming through in the quarter.

Yes. So probably important to split my answer into the two ends of the workflow. In the research space, which - whether you're large pharma or biotech, those revenues are going to be captured in our new lab segment. And the way we forecasted that, of course, is a continuation of kind of Q4 run rates, adjusted for a bit of price, if you will.
I'm encouraged by what we're seeing on biotech. We probably saw the last step down in Q1 a year ago and things were relatively stable through the back three quarters of the year. And when I look at the external data and try to triangulate the disparate data points around funding, I think there are some green shoots there that give us a little bit of hope that they're on their road to recovery. But certainly, we're encouraged by the stability that we've seen there.

The back half of the year on large pharma. Certainly, we saw the cautionary spending patterns work their way in, reprioritization of pipelines and such. As I mentioned earlier, I think the sentiment and the expectation for most of those large pharma accounts is to see modest growth as we move through the year, particularly in the back half of the year. We haven't factored that in, and we'll realize that if it does, in fact, work out that way.

On the other end of the workflow in the production environment, we don't really have much exposure to the biotech space, just given the way we manage these businesses, the biotech funding - biotech revenues tend to be in the research space. And so the production segment really is reflecting the revenues associated with commercialized platforms, which, again, you've got just the patient demand on one hand and then the launch of new molecules, which continues to run at a high level as key drivers for that platform. And we continue to be extremely well positioned here.

Yes. Thank you all for joining us today. As we conclude, I'd just like to reiterate that while we're certainly encouraged by the trends that we're seeing, we're also taking an appropriately prudent approach to our full year guidance and indeed are positioned for upside if a market recovery does materialize within the year. I'd also like to thank our associates around the world for their many contributions and for their continued commitment to our customers. I look forward to updating you when we meet next. And until then, be well, everyone. Have a great Valentine's Day.