Michael Casey
Carter's, Inc. (CRI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Warren, it's largely on the opening price point product. The everyday essentials, just have a more consistent experience throughout the year on what those price points would be. So given the progress with cost reduction, we took some of that cost reduction, put it into product benefits and where we thought it would be helpful, we've gotten sharper on price points in the magnitude of $1 or $2 for certain key items, still $1 or $2 above private label because when we raised the prices, private label, generally during the inflationary period, raised prices as well.

I would say, during the worst of the early days of inflation, when we lowered prices, we did not see a meaningful change in unit velocity. So we stuck with the pricing that we -- what we had because product costs were higher, we kept the prices higher. But with product costs lower now, we saw that as an opportunity to get sharper on some key price points.

Richard, and, our Head of Supply Chain, Karen Smith, will be in Asia, next week, meeting with all of our suppliers. We've had good top-to-top meetings with them earlier this year, virtually earlier this year. I think that we would describe that the cost environment is fairly stable. And cotton is an important input cost, so is oil for polyester. I'd say on labor, it's kind of mixed. Labor rates went up in Bangladesh this past year. But probably the biggest driver of cost near term.

In near term, again, to Richard's point, we have visibility through largely winter of this year starting to get some indication of spring next year is capacity, manufacturing capacity. And our sense is we've had suppliers come here to Atlanta asking us for more work. But as every major retailer, including Carter's has gotten leaner on inventories and being more cautious on inventory commitments to drive better sell-throughs, price realization and margins that has opened up capacity. So as the suppliers are eager to fill that capacity, they've been very helpful meeting our cost and margin objectives. So near term, I would say our visibility through the balance of the year is good. And as we move through the year, we'll give you some indication of what we think is possible going into '25.

I’d say it’s mixed. Some will be up, some will be down. And on the off-price, just to put it in context, we’ve never had a big off-price business. So if the mix last year was 4% of our $1 billion wholesale business, it will be closer to 2% this year. It’s always been a relatively low number. But in the department stores, I would say the department stores are showing some progress. We have visibility every day to how the department stores are doing. Again, they are trying to recover from the pandemic. They -- when they close stores, just like we closed stores for several weeks in 2020, a lot of the business swung over to the mass channel, which has helped us because we’re the largest supplier of kids apparel, the national brands in kids apparel to Target, Walmart, Amazon. But the department stores saw kind of this shift in traffic from their businesses over to the mass channel. But I’d say the department stores are showing some good signs of recovery. We see the spring selling. We see the over-the-counter selling and the arrow is pointing up there. So their businesses are recovering nicely, and we’ll benefit from that to some extent this year, and I think, more importantly, in the years ahead.

Sure. I'll give you the top two. One starts with talent and the other one is in product. So it was less than a year ago, we made some significant changes in our retail organization and with changes that followed were in the merchandising, design and marketing teams. And we're starting to see the benefit of that in spring. I think we expect to see more of that benefit as we move through the balance of the year, particularly in fall and holiday. But our business is heavily weighted to the second half. So it's talent, it's product.

Some other things, Jay, we have a better mix of stores. We're going to close more low-margin stores this year, and we'll open up higher-margin stores. We've got new marketing capabilities that we've invested in this past year in terms of a new media agency. We'll have the first full year benefit of that media agency that guides us on the highest and best use of our marketing spend each year. We have a new creative agency that's been engaged for this year.

So I think there's a number of good initiatives that we believe will enable us to have a kind of a glide path back to growth in comparable sales. That's our focus. We have to demonstrate that we can improve comparable sales this year. That is our focus. We expect we'll see progress with that objective as we move through the year. But I would say the top two, starts with talent. And then that very talented team is focused on elevating the style of our product offerings and the value proposition. So that's what you'll hear. Those will be the themes that we'll share with you our progress with as we move through the year.

That’s possible because the -- what we’ve done with that new side-by-side model has created a better experience for that family shopping for about a 4- to 10-year-old child. And so we’ve seen a nice lift in the older age segment product offering and we’ve actually seen a better performance on the baby and toddler. The lion’s share of our business is in baby and toddler, about 80% of our total sales. The older age -- like we’ve had this age of strategy to make sure that the product is relevant for that slightly older child. In years past, we’d have an all in one box. Both we would have newborn to apparel for a 10-year-old child on the Carter’s side and we’d have a similar mix. We have baby at [indiscernible] up and then a product offer for up to a 10-year old on the OshKosh side. We think it makes -- you test, you test and learn, but the test we did last year putting baby and toddler all brands on one side and kid apparel, all brands on the other side has shown some promise. So that will be the model going forward.

So Richard will help you with the wholesale question, but the comp for e-com in the fourth quarter was down 19%. What we're encouraged by is that the trend we saw in the fourth quarter improved sequentially. It improved sequentially in each month from October, November, December and then even into January. So we've seen four consecutive months where the e-comm comp has improved since October. October was the toughest because comps grow at record levels in October. There just wasn't as high a demand we saw for our fall and holiday product offerings. But we're encouraged that we've seen four consecutive months of improvement in the e-commerce trend. And year-to-date, our e-commerce is down 10%. It was down 20% last year, now down 10% year-to-date. And then on wholesale in terms of the shift, Richard?

I would say stable. It’s about a $28 billion market in the United States. The market data we have, it's fairly stable. Births are fairly stable. We're seeing an increase in births of moms who are over 29 years old. Moms who are 25 to 29, that's down a bit. And then we saw like a 2% drop in new moms under 25. Biggest drop there in teenage moms, and we're -- that's okay by us, right? So that's -- we're seeing the increase in births to moms who are older. People are waiting, waiting a little longer until they get a little bit further along in their careers, but -- those who are having children a bit later have the ability to spend more on their kids. So I would say, the birth trends and market trends are fairly stable, thankfully.

That's what we're assuming. And given our broad distribution in the market, we believe that we have an opportunity to have growth in a market that's fairly stable.

I would say the sell-throughs were good. We saw very good growth in our replenishment business in the fourth quarter. I think the replenishment trends were up about 9% in the fourth quarter. So that's where -- there's two business. I think you understand, Jim, there's kind of a seasonal business. There's a replenishment business. Directionally, it's two-third seasonal, one-third replenishment. But our wholesale customers were very cautious on the seasonal commitments for 2023. They had to make those decisions when inflation surged in the mid part of 2022. So they said, and we're not quite sure how long this inflationary cycle is going to last. So they pulled back on some of the seasonal commitments for '23. That's what weighed on our growth last year. But the replenishment is all about how the registers ring in. So those five packs and blanket sleepers, wash claws bids, all that stuff is being purchased, the register sends a signal to us to keep those fixtures in stock. So we were encouraged by the strong replenishment business in the fourth quarter.

I do think we're planning the comps down in the first quarter but you will see we expect that the comps will improve as we move through the year.

I'm rounding for you. So it's a $1 billion business. So off-price sales were some portion of 4% last year, it would be closer to 2%. So it's in round numbers about $20 million.

Thank you very much. Thank you all for joining us this morning. We look forward to updating you on our progress in April. Goodbye.