Michael Speetzen
Polaris Inc. (PII) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And remember, Fred, that Q1 is typically a pretty low quarter for us anyway. And for years, we've had the benefit of that snow business delivering late, which obviously is not optable for customers. So we've got that business in a much, much better spot. And as Bob mentioned, dealer inventory is now essentially at an optimal level. I look at it as -- it's essentially when our performance is kind of bottoming out. There's a number of factors coming together at one time. And when you look at Q2 and Q3 and Q4, you're not -- this isn't a heavy back-end loaded plan. It's essentially getting back to shipping to retail, we obviously have opportunity in front of us to get cost out through the remainder of the year. But this isn't something where we're not generating earnings in Q1 and making it all up in Q4. It's really us getting back to running the business on a more normal level basis, essentially starting in Q2. And the team came out of the gate strong in January. I can tell you, we are monitoring even more measures and metrics than we have before, specifically around the operations of the business. And I'm encouraged with what I've seen so far, and we're going to stay on top of it to make sure that the team executes.

Yes. I mean I'd say a couple of things. I mean, one, obviously, the broader industry is going to behave as it will. And for us, it's our relative performance. And we did it this past year in terms of gaining share in all three segments. And I'm really confident given the new products that we came out with, obviously, late in the year and getting a full-year of that with XPEDITION and XD. The work the Marine team has done, not just in Bennington, but with Godfrey and Hurricane. And then in our On-Road segment. We've got some, as Bob teased, we've got some very intriguing news coming this year.

And to add on top of that, the dealers obviously have become a lot more discerning in what they want to have in their dealerships and we know that they're pushing out a lot of those weaker brands, and that really benefits us because we continue to demonstrate that we are the leader, and there's a reason behind that. And I think that the dealers appreciate the adherence we have to making sure that the dealer inventory stayed at an appropriate level.

So as Bob mentioned in his prepared remarks, we're going to make sure we're watching retail, and we're going to monitor our shipments. We're not going to get out ahead of our skis, and we're going to make sure that we have the right inventory at the right dealers, but we're not going to ignore trends. And if trends are better or worse, we're going to adjust our shipping plans accordingly.

And Megan, I said it in my prepared remarks, but it merits reemphasizing it. The majority of these costs are associated with products that are back before 2018. And the thing to keep in mind is during COVID, the legal, the court system kind of essentially shut down and has just kind of gotten back into getting up to speed, so the pace and movement of these cases has been happening pretty quick. And as you can imagine, we're obviously trying to do the best that we can to stay on top of it.

Bob mentioned that we've planned '24 at a very similar level to what we saw in '23. We're keeping a close eye on it. Obviously, I think it's not unique to us. The legal environment is pretty challenging right now and cost overall of settlements and trials and all that are much higher than they have been historically. So we do have product liability insurance. So we do have that benefit factored in as we think about financial guidance and how we want to handicap potential risk.

Well, I mean, a couple of things. We ended up doing probably a bit more in the fourth quarter, as I mentioned, given some of the competitive dynamics around noncurrent inventory. As best we can, we can tell that, that is coming down relative to where it has been. But if you look at the first quarter of '24 versus first quarter of '23, our dealer inventory was probably 40 days lower than optimal. So there was very little promo in the channel. We were all still trying to get ourselves caught up in the first quarter. And so when you do that year-over-year comparison, it's pretty substantial.

Look, it's really going to come down to the amount of discipline that we and others are going to have around dealer inventory, making sure that there isn't noncurrent inventory sitting on the floor in excess as well as just making sure that we're watching retail and making the adjustments to the shipments. And we know we've made that commitment. We've heard others now starting to voice that, which is encouraging. And I think that's going to be an important dynamic to make sure that promo remains in a relatively contained fashion.

Our team has done a lot over the past few years in terms of the investments we've made in our CRM systems so that as we go out with offers, obviously, you'll have blanket offers that are around financing that we know are pretty successful and obviously hit a certain tier bracket of credit rating. But a lot of our other offers go through and are much more targeted to customers that have been in the Polaris family for a while, and we know it's time to upgrade. We're really trying to do that so that we end up with a much more efficient use of that money than just doing a blanket offer.

Yes, I think I feel pretty good about everything. The margin EBITDA margin is obviously the one we're contending with right now. And I'd say it's a couple of things, Craig. I mean it's obviously why we have pushed the team hard to work on the inefficiencies. If you go back in time, our factories were dealing with a fair amount of I don't want to say chaos, but there was a fair amount of inefficiency given what was happening from a supply chain standpoint. And during that time period, I'd tell you, we kind of lost our way. The lean focus making sure that we were managing down to the daily cost budgets in the plan, it was all focused on trying to get product out. If you remember the days of dealer inventory having an 80-day deficit relative to targets. I give the team a lot of credit for working hard to get the product out so that we could make sure that we were getting consumers the product that they needed.

The issue really started this past year when we saw the supply chain becoming less and less of a factor yet the performance in the factory wasn't improving. And a lot of the things that happened during COVID really came back to work against us. Specific examples would be in our indirect versus direct labor. Typically, you have more direct labor than you do indirect and then some of our plants that balance got out of whack. And that's really driven by needing extra teams to go out and do rework and supplemental quality checks because you're moving product through essentially a secondary assembly line.

Material flow. At one point, we had 1,000 tractor trailers with parts in them in Monterrey. And that is really a symptom of an inefficient material flow process. Now the good news is, yes, we have a lot of work in front of us, but we have a very skilled team. We've brought some new team members in, very steep and lean principles. We have engaged some external folks to come in who are more hands-on, not consultants to help us identify the issues. We've seen the progress starting the momentum shift in Q4 and we've tailored our internal review process, such that Bob and I are sitting down with the business unit presidents and their operational leaders on a pretty regular basis to review how we're doing making sure that we're keeping the cadence going and that this isn't short-term fixes. These are really fixing some of the more systematic things that we've got to get after.

So I have a lot of confidence in that. And it's really going to be key for us to have the bending of the curve. That's why you see us targeting a positive EBITDA improvement versus '23. Because that will really start to build the momentum. And as you can imagine, a lot of the enhancements and the changes and the improvements we're making, they're not happening in day 1 in '24. And we've obviously factored that into our guidance. They start gaining momentum as we get into the second half. And what happens then is you really get that momentum of those cost improvements into '25 and then I'm not sitting here making a call, but if you can get some positive revenue momentum if the market is just either flat or up slightly, that puts this business in a much, much better position to leverage that growth and get that margin expansion.

I think the rest of the pieces play out. I mean, our capital deployment, return on invested capital, those things I feel really good about. It's really going to be predicated on, one, our execution of the cost improvements internally. And then two, does the broader macro start to improve late in '24 and into '25?

Well, the way -- I guess the way I'd come at it, Joe, is to say we didn't get after enough of it in '23. And so the piece that we missed is definitely coming out in '24. We did get cost down in '23. We just didn't get it down near as much as we had targeted. And aside from the actions that we've been taking, there's also momentum around certain commodities already starting to come down sequentially, and that obviously takes some time to roll through inventory. So Bob and the team have this pretty well pegged out in terms of the buckets that need to happen, and that's what we're basically reviewing on a weekly, monthly basis.

And it's almost -- there's some impact in marine and motorcycle, but the bulk of it is snow and ORV.

Yes. I mean it's tough to say. I mean, I think the opportunity we have with XD and XPEDITION given the positive reception, I suspect that that's going to be -- if you think about those are not completely, but highly incremental. In terms of new segments, we certainly will cannibalize some customers off of general for XPEDITION and the core Ranger business for XD. But given the bulk of that is incremental, it's probably going to outpace any other potential new products that we would have just given the size of those markets.

Well, I mean, like I said in my prepared remarks, we anticipate the industry is going to be down and for some reason, I think there's been a view that the industry got some massive uptick as it related to what happened with COVID. And essentially, if you go back in time, really, what happened was we had a year where just a ton, not just assuming the industry everything was sold off of dealers' floors and then we've spent the last few years just trying to get caught up. So with industry being down a little bit next year, we think that the volumes are still hovering at or below where they've been historically.

And from my standpoint, it's really two things that are going to have to get resolved. I think the uncertainty around the economy as it relates to our discretionary products, the rec products, marine, things like that as well as interest rates. I mean, look people -- even though the financing isn't -- the impact of the interest rates isn't some significant monthly impact to their payment, people just generally don't want to finance at the top of the market. And so we do think that you can see it every time the Fed talks about or hints at what they're going to do with interest rates, you see things start to shift. And I think once the rates do start to move, I think that is going to be positive for the industry, people want to be in.

We're not seeing some surge of used vehicles where people are just saying, "Hey, we want out." One of the interesting facts that we've seen, we've talked about it in prior calls, we track repurchase rates. Everything from customers who bought some three months ago to people who were in the market a year ago, five years ago, 10 years ago. And those repurchase rates actually got stagnant during the pandemic surge because new people coming into the category were willing to pay a lot for vehicles. And what we've seen is since that fever has kind of lowered the repurchase rates pretty much across every category we track had actually started ticking back up.

And I think that's good for the industry because we know that people are out there. They've got aging product. We've got a ton of new product and innovation out in the marketplace. And I think we just need to see some things settle out during '24, and I'm optimistic as we get out of '24, the setup is much better heading into '25, both for us as a company as well as potentially for the industry.

Well, I mean, look, it's tough to always know. But we took a pretty firm stance through the course of '23, working with Ben Duke and his team as we saw the retail environment slowing feedback from dealers around dealer inventory levels and the interest costs associated with those. And it's why we made a series of cuts to our marine production through the course of the year. And so as we head into to '24, we're still being very cognizant of that. The first and second quarter are really going to be key as dealers get a sense of what the boating season looks like, how much inventory they want to take a position on. The dealers are obviously taking a far more aggressive stance because the OEMs essentially have all caught up.

I can't think of the last time we've had a supply chain issue within our Bennington, Hurricane or Godfrey businesses. And so they know the manufacturing system can move pretty quickly. And so we've taken a conservative approach to what we think is going to happen this year. And if things end up a little bit better, we can react. And obviously, as we demonstrated in '23 if things don't play out as anticipated, we'll make those reductions to make sure we keep dealer inventory in check. Bob made that point. One good thing about our boat business in a downturn is they can react quickly, and we actually were able to improve the EBITDA margins in that segment despite having lower-than-anticipated volumes.

And I mean, go back and look at the data, I mean, last year, we pulled revenue down in our Marine business over 20% and then we've got a guidance that says we'll be down another mid-teens in '24. So we're responding appropriately to the category, and it's going to be important to see what happens. And hopefully, we're going to have good boating.

Yes. Obviously, we've done a lot of math around and Bob can talk to more detail about what -- to get to those numbers, what '25 and '26 really need to look like. It's not super sporting. I mean, obviously, we can't have another couple of years like we've had from a broader economic perspective. What gives me confidence is, I do think we're at the end of a -- what was probably, I think a record tightening cycle as well as coming out of an environment that I don't think anybody could have ever predicted in terms of COVID and get everybody back to work and just some of the other geopolitical things that were going on. And it's not to say that there won't be more issues in front of us.

But I do think we're getting into a more stabilized environment. And when you couple that with what we've done, if I go back years ago, the knock on us was we were losing share. We didn't have the new products coming out. I mean we have fixed that, and we fixed it significantly. And we're not done, and the team's got more product coming out. We're obviously not going to spend time talking about that now. But rest assured, when I look at what happened starting back in that 2015-2016 time period from a share standpoint, it's great that we gained share last year. It's great that excluding youth, we gain more share than everybody else.

But we still have a lot more that we're going to get back. And we're going to go after that. We are not building in acquisitions. Given where our stock is trading, I made some comments about our free cash flow yield, there is hard to imagine a better investment than Polaris stock right now from my perspective. And so I would be hard-pressed to be convinced that we need to go out and buy some other company to try and meet our revenue growth objective. I think for us, the biggest challenge is going to be around margins, and I talked about it earlier in terms to Craig's question. The things that we're doing and the things that are under our control, I feel confident that we're going to be able to get after them, and we're pushing the team hard. The team understands what's at stake and they're highly committed and driven and I wouldn't bet against them.

Thank you.

Yes. I mean it certainly isn't the topic that it used to be around here. I think we resigned ourselves that these things feel like they're probably going to be permanent. It knows what's going to happen here in '24. But we can't control any of that. I mean we have a great government relations team, and they're constantly advocating for us even though there aren't a ton of them, but the exemptions, making sure that those get renewed and those types of things and fleeting our case because we do think we're being incredibly disadvantaged -- as the global leader in powersports, the truly only U.S.-based company, and we're the only ones really paying tariffs seems a little wrong to say the least.

The near-shoring opportunity is something we've continued to push. I would say we've made inroads, but there's still a lot more to do. And frankly, I think there's a lot more to do in terms of shoring -- not shoring but locating our sourcing within Mexico, given how large our footprint is so that we make sure that we've got continuity of supply, and we've got things being produced in the region as opposed to coming from continents away and being subjected to the vulnerabilities and the risk of the supply chain, then obviously, that does give us potential tariff benefit.

But we haven't built in some substantial improvement. We know really well what those tariffs are and how to calculate them. And look, if we get some level of good news, that would be great. I'm not counting on it. I think even if there's a Republican in the White House, I think the pressure relative to China is still so great that it's going to take a while if those things go away for them to be acted on. So we're going to continue to do what we do and act like they're permanent and do it great for the business.

Thank you.