Michael Happe
Winnebago Industries, Inc. (WGO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, James. Say, I’ll address the affordability question in this way. We have decided to attack affordability through the introduction of new models that get our brands to potentially new and different price points or fill some gaps in our product lineups that we think are important from an affordability standpoint. And I’ll point to four quick examples. In fiscal ‘23, in the pontoon market under the Barletta brand, we introduced the Aria product, which expanded our total addressable market price point-wise from 40% to 70% of the market.

So the Aria is the opening price point brand for the Barletta business. We showed at Open House the Winnebago branded access which is that particular brand’s entrance into the conventional travel trailer market with MSRP targets at $30,000 or below. And then the Grand Design business has introduced two new brands, the influence, which is an affordable Fifth Wheel between our Reflection and Solitude models. And we’ve also introduced the Reflection 100, which is affordably priced below the traditional reflection Fifth Wheel line.

And so as opposed to decontenting and dropping margin on existing SKUs, we’ve really chosen to go after affordability with our business through the introduction of new products. And we anticipate that we will be successful here as we go through our fiscal ‘24 year.

Scott, good morning. This is Mike. I think the dimension you touched on is probably one of the bigger elements as I think most of us in the industry know the dealers are facing higher floor plan costs due to higher interest rates, and that is certainly factoring into their attention to aging models, but also certainly the total amount of product that they are willing to carry. I do want to state, though, that on the RV side of our business, specifically, where we see this element most in play. We are pleased with where we stand with our inventory position as of today.

And in fact, since the end of our fourth quarter, our RV field inventory is down probably another 1,500 units in gross between the end of August and this call this morning. And so we believe our inventory is fresh as fresh as it can be. We believe that the inventory volume in total is appropriate. And we will continue to partner with our dealers to make sure that they are comfortable with the inventory they are carrying.

But we anticipate any further destocking on our brands of RVs to be lightly incremental going forward. We don’t anticipate any significant further drops. And retail volume and optimism will really be, we think, the determining factor for dealers to begin taking more inventory onto their lots in the months to come

Our Class B inventory in the field is probably in the neighborhood of 15% to 20% lower today than it was a year ago. So any previous comments about tightness probably were specific to potentially certain SKUs. Again, we’re -- the motorized business has been a little bit different from the Towables business in terms of inventory comps year-over-year. The Towables business was probably the part of the industry that a year or so ago was more rich in terms of the volume of inventory, but also probably more challenged in terms of the mix with prior model years and lower-tier brands whereas the Motorized segment fell to low levels in those -- that 2021 and the beginning of calendar 2022 period, but because of supply chain challenges around chassis, we really haven’t had the need to correct field inventory levels in the motorized segment to the degree that we’ve had to on the towable side.

So again, I am comfortable with where our motorized field inventory stands today. I’m comfortable with where our Towables field inventory stands today. And again, we look forward to earning the business of the dealers going forward to increase lot share. We have run some selective promotions around floor plan inventory rate support here as we ran into Open House. But we don’t anticipate having the need to do that extensively throughout the ‘24 year.

Joe, good morning, this is Mike. We are not hearing material weakening of retail financing in our business at this time. I would say the headwind that probably is most prevalent at retail for our dealers, especially with existing customers is some of the challenges around what to do with that existing unit that an existing customer has that they would like to trade in. In some cases, depending on when they bought it, they are in a negative equity situation and may have to write a sizable check to get out of that current product and upgrade or get into a new product. And so I would say the trade-in headwind is probably a much bigger factor than any retail financing challenges that we are seeing at the present time.

Yes. Let me start with more of the historical relationship with Camping World that we have had in our Winnebago-branded business. We have done business with Camping World through the Winnebago brand for many years. Mostly on the motorized side, but off and on, on Winnebago Towables as well. And we continue to do business on the Winnebago side in dozens of different locations and have a healthy relationship with Camping World there. Not all of those locations are full-line locations. They carry select models of the Winnebago Motorized line.

And we have had some productive conversations with Camping World around the Winnebago Towables line as of recently at the Open House event in Indiana a few weeks ago. You did reference the Grand Design Camping World store. We recently co-opened an exclusive Grand Design store with Camping World in the Green Bay, Wisconsin market, looks fantastic. I think the grand opening was this past weekend, and that is an opportunity for us to influence more of the customer experience in an exclusive store format working with the Camping World team.

Admittedly, this is Grand Design’s first location with Camping World since the inception of that brand. And we are having some discussions about possible other markets. But we will be very selective in our conversations with Camping World and really kind of take it in a crawl-before-we-walk style to make sure that this is a productive relationship.

Just so you know, but also any stakeholders listening to this call know, our relationships with our dealers are not focused solely on sales. They are also focused on the complete experience for our customers and especially how our customers are cared for in the aftermarket. So, any expansion with any dealer includes a conversation on the service side as well, where we need to get comfortable with both the OEM and the dealer taking care of the customer at a high level. And so that conversation is definitely a part of any Grand Design expansion discussions with any of their retailers, including Camping World.

Tristan, we are having productive conversations with most of our key suppliers about the need for them to pass on the reductions they are seeing in cost on their raw materials or from their suppliers to us. And in many cases, that is happening. In some situations, we have an index-based relationship with certain suppliers that just follows the curve of those indexes. But we are having good productive conversations with our larger suppliers on cost management.

I would say where those discussions are the most challenging and where we continue to see headwinds concerning cost is in the motorized chassis category. Those suppliers are a little less agile in changing cost and in some cases, are still experiencing some cost increases that they are needing to pass on to OEMs like us. So net, we are getting good responses from our suppliers on continuing to manage, in some cases, lower the cost of our bill of materials.

Fred, today, between our two existing brands, Winnebago and Newmar, we run somewhere between, and it varies by quarter and by year, but we have run somewhere between 18% to 20% total market share in the Motorized segment between those two brands. We absolutely believe that the addition of Grand Design Motorized into our business strategy will be net incremental to that market share. I am not going to share a specific target at this time. But we would not be funding from a capital standpoint, the investment in this business strategy if it didn’t, a, have a standalone ROI that was projected to be positive.

But b, it was meaningfully accretive to our overall share. We have been very intentional with internal conversations about minimizing cannibalization of our existing motorized revenue and share to the best of our ability as the Grand Design team rolls out this lineup over the course of the next several years. And this will be a graduated rollout of product over probably the next two years to three years beginning in probably our fourth quarter of fiscal ‘24.

So, we anticipate that this will be -- that, that target will be 20% plus. And I guess as we are ready to unveil some further details, we can potentially get more specific on what those aspirations are. But just know that for us, it has to be and will be incremental. And that will mean that the product will be important from a differentiation standpoint.

But the way we attack the market from a dealer standpoint will also be important. We will be crafting a new Grand Design Motorhome dealer network that will consist of some of our existing Grand Design Towables dealers, but it will potentially consist of some dealers who do not carry the Grand Design Towables line today. And some of these dealers may or may not carry some of our existing motorized brands, Winnebago or Newmar. So, more details to come.

Fred, thanks for the question. We really didn’t plan to not comment. We just did not include that topic specifically in our script. Our position really hasn’t probably materially changed since our last earnings call, and I will explain what I mean by that. As we look at calendar 2024, there are many retail estimates out in the marketplace. Our latest on record comment was around 350,000 units of retail in calendar 2024, which would be roughly flat to where we think calendar 2023 will end.

And so we continue to believe that, that is an appropriate target for calendar 2024. We do believe in calendar 2024, that by the end of that period, that wholesale shipments could approach a one-to-one total with that retail number. And so wholesale shipments could also equal 350,000 in calendar 2024, sands any unexpected macroeconomic developments or other issues. And so that’s our current position, which I don’t believe is meaningfully changed from the prior quarter. That’s where we stand.

Bret, this is Mike. Good morning, let me comment on that. First, let me talk about what we experienced at Open House with our business. So, at Open House, we had each of our three brands displaying. The Winnebago brand essentially has two sub businesses under it, motorhome and Towables. Each of our four businesses at Open House, Newmar, Grand Design, Winnebago Motorized, Winnebago Towables experienced an order increase at Open House 2023 versus the open house in 2022 during that Open House week.

So, we were really pleased coming out of Open House 2023 in spite of a very tepid dealer ordering environment to see that increase. And some of that is due to the new products that we have referenced here today. And even some we haven’t mentioned like the echo on a Mercedes Benz chassis underneath the Winnebago Motorhome business. That also drew a nice amount of orders in Elkhart. We have seen backlog sequentially improve in our largest segment, Towables from June through September, which is a nice development. And I think I may have mentioned that in the script comments, but we are seeing that backlog beginning to grow again on the Towables side. From a timing standpoint, we think that this will be contingent a bit on the retail pace, obviously, that dealers are experiencing.

As I mentioned, minutes ago, we like our inventory position in the field at this time, meaning that we do not believe it’s excessive or old at all. And so our sales personnel are working with the dealers to have them take product as they are comfortable. We will not share production schedule information this morning in terms of this fall. But we are continuing to turn the dial on production rates based on that short-term backlog that we have.

We did mention that the first two quarters of our fiscal 2024 year could be challenging primarily because, again, we think dealers are just going to be very disciplined about when they take the product as it is tied to retail results happening at their locations and/or any optimism they see about the market in the future. So again, we are pleased with our order position and some of the recent trends we have seen coming out of Open House.

Yes. Good morning Noah, this is Mike. What’s interesting with our marine business and just a reminder that, obviously, we have a fast-growing pontoon brand in Barletta in a major segment of the market. And then we have a luxury brand in Chris-Craft in the very high end of the market.

I will speak to the Pontoon segment specifically. We are seeing certainly dealers continuing to destock inventory in the Pontoon segment and work on aging aspects of that inventory mix. But what’s been positive about the pontoon category has been that the retail activity around that segment has been relatively stable especially as compared to some of the retail trends we saw in the RV segment over the last year. In fact, our Barletta retail fiscal year ‘24 to-date, the first six weeks or seven weeks is up meaningfully. We are up meaningfully at retail on Barletta through the first six weeks or so of our fiscal ‘24 year.

But we are seeing the dealers continue to use that to normalize their inventories, but also they are disciplined taking in a product is also contributing to their destocking. So again, similar to my comments about our first and second quarters being challenged on the RV side, we think you will see that on the marine side as well as dealers continue to try to get their inventory in better position before some of the winter and spring marine shows once calendar year 2024 begins.

But what I am most pleased about on the pontoon side is that we continue to see good retail for our brand, and we continue to take some share. We are around 7%, 7.1% of aluminum pontoons now with the Barletta brand and continue to be very pleased with that business’ future runway.

We did not mention because we are not sharing specific details at this time. What we wanted to share with you all this morning was that the business strategy is happening and is being developed and worked on. The Grand Design team will choose the time in the future that they are comfortable sharing specific specs publicly about their new lineup that they are working on. And you can probably anticipate hearing or seeing something to that and probably in the early part of calendar year 2024. But again, more details to come in the future to that end.

Operator.
