Mikael Bratt
Autoliv, Inc. (ALV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you for your questions there. The 4% outperformance versus LVP takes us into 2024. So this is the last year of the three-year period that we have communicated on, and as we said there, we expect to over deliver on that target.

And of course, it is thanks to the growth we have created through the order intake over the last couple of years, and of course, we have seen a good development on the content per week and also -- and we expect to see that also next year. This excluded, as we mentioned here, also the price negotiations that is on top of that.

Then beyond 2024, we have the 4% to 6%, where the core -- 4% to 6% organic growth targets where the current, let’s say, core business should be 2% to 4%. So that is our target going there beyond 2024.

Regarding China, the minus 2% versus LVP we saw in the fourth quarter is due to mix effects. As we mentioned here, we had growth -- significant growth on the low-end vehicles, or let’s say, the vehicles with lower safety content than usual.

But if you look at the full year, we had a very strong outperformance there of 8% for the full year. So we look very positively on China and we feel that we are well-positioned with, let’s say, the new EV players and also the OEMs in general there. So positive view on China going forward.

Thank you.

Thank you for your questions there. On the buybacks, as you know, we only report on what we have done on a regular basis here through our webpage here. We are, I mean, very committed to our program that we have and I think you can see that we have in the fourth quarter here a healthy level of buybacks, and the -- of course, we are focusing a lot on making sure that we have the cash flow generation needed, and as you see from the report here, we are committed to be a shareholder friendly company when it comes to both the regular dividend and also to the buyback program and we will come back on that as we progress here. But that’s as much as I could say here today.

Regarding the inflationary, there is a lead time, and as we have indicated here already, you see, let’s say, the cost effect from inflation hitting us earlier in the year and then we have the negotiation throughout the year. And in the same fashion as we were stating last year, our focus here is to get the full compensation and the height of the compensation rather than to looking at the quarter-by-quarter here. So it’s the full year compensation that is the priority and the height of it. So therefore you get this, let’s say, new seasonality, if we call it that, where you have obviously Q1 and then gradually improve throughout the year. So that’s the reason behind that. I don’t know, Anders, if you would like to add anything there, Fredrik, or?

Okay. I mean, there are a lot of components in your question. So, overall, the framework is I think pretty clear. $85 million we say -- as it looks right now, 2024, $85 million seems to be in place as an assumption here for 2024. Then when it comes to the other two that we are made whole on the inflation compensation, that will potentially have an impact also on a full year as long as we have inflation and there’s always this catch up effect from when the costs come in until we are compensated for. Again, here, our ambition is to have that also in place for 2024, but that remains to be seen also how inflation develops during the year.

Then the last component is on call of stability and here we have a graph in our presentation where it’s clearly not in place going into the year. I mean, we have seen it kind of temp or stabilizing at around 90% now during the second half of last year. We are not assuming it right now that this will improve significantly during 2024.

And then there’s also even if it were to come up to pre-pandemic levels, closer to the 100%, there’s also a time lag of when that accuracy is actually in place until we can also get the efficiency out in our network. So it’s -- yeah, it’s trending towards the framework, but for sure 2024 will not be in place and it remains to be seen how much of that number two and three here will come in place during 2024 and then what the impact is for 2025.

Looking at the building blocks of how to get from the 8.8% that we had now in 2023 up to the 12%, it’s roughly, you can divide it into three buckets. One is the structural initiatives and the headcount reductions. The second one is the volatility improvement combined with the labor productivity development. And then the third component is sales growth and our strategic initiatives and it’s roughly, I would say, one-third margin contribution from those three buckets.

Yeah. As you know, we have since last year communicated here around the lifetime revenue on the order intake and I think we had a very good 2023 and the highest in five years here in terms of lifetime revenue. And what we are saying here is that, we reached the 45% market share in 2023, which we have indicated since some years back that that was what we expected us to grow into, and with the order intake and order book we have, we expect to defend this market share.

We do not have, I would say, a target or an ambition to set a new level of our market share here. It is really to defend this market share position with healthy business, of course. If we can grow more in a healthy way, of course, we will do it. But it is not the target in itself. So the growth that we expect going forward, the 2% to 4%, as I talked about, and we have announced earlier beyond 2024 is connected to light vehicle production and content with more sophisticated products.

Thank you.

Thank you. Let me start with the price recovery, and Fredrik will comment on the working capital there. But on the price recovery, I can’t say there’s a structural to it. I think it’s -- I mean, of course, I can only comment on what we are doing here and we have now for the last two years have had very constructive dialogues with our customers around the over and above normal cost increases we see in the system here.

And I mean we’re starting out with raw materials and there we have also mentioned that we have made some indication, a higher level of indexation to those contracts here also. So I mean it works both ways obviously. So when we see that come down we will also hand that back to our customers.

When it comes to the other components here, it’s a little bit different to its nature, but I think, it’s very important to get compensation for what is the inflationary components here and we -- for this year definitely have the labor in focus here. And I mean that’s the nature of inflation, it needs to be passed on into the end consumer here and meaning the price of the car at the end of the day.

So we need to push that on, because there is no possibility for us to compensate our suppliers unless we get the pass on here. It’s not sustainable and that’s something we just need to continue to work hard with and we will do that and that’s our focus here going forward as well.

I think on the Active Seatbelts side it’s no drama in into that, of course, you get mixed effects also in specific years where you have maybe some outgoing car models where you have a high level of in this case than Active Seatbelt and my expectation here is that you should see that recovery recovering in the next year here or so. So no drama to that, it’s more of a, yeah, temporary mix effect.

And then on the cost compensation here if I understand you right. I mean the nature of OEMs, as you said labor cost increases is sticky and therefore it’s, I mean, it will not come down, I think we can call it.

So of course there is an absolute necessity that that inflationary component has to come through. There is no room for anything else and that is what we are doing here and we of course have very detailed supporting documents to when we go to our customers how that’s connected to their specific business and how it’s correlated.

So that’s something we need to go through and I mean we went through that partly already last year when we saw in some cases and in some regions that impact already in 2023. So we expect to do more of that.

Thank you. Thank you, Bjorn. No. I think, I see what you’re referring to here. But I mean, it -- first of all, it has never been easy these negotiations, not even when we saw record profitability at the OEMs. And I think the point from my side here is that that’s nothing to do with their profitability or our possibility. This is inflation that needs to be passed on. It’s not sustainable for us to pay our suppliers unless we can get the pass-through. So that is just something that we are very firm on and needs to continue to be firm on. There is no other way uh than that.

Then I think when you look at the price reductions and so on at the towards the end consumers. I think there is of course different reasons for that you see those prices coming down, which probably is more on an individual basis between the OEMs, so I have no comments around that, but we need to focus on our business here, which we are doing, so just to continue to press on there.

No. I mean, not from our perspective it’s no correlation and I think that’s my point here that they need, I mean, each company take care of their business and in our case here we need to get compensation for the inflation in our system, which includes ours.

No. I think, I mean, at least from the dialogues we have with our customers on the way forward here, I don’t see any discrepancies to what we refer to here as the minus one from S&P Global in general here. I think there is more of this mix effect between ICE and EVs and -- especially in Europe where maybe the EVs is slowing down somewhat, but it’s more a mixed effect there. And for us that is neutral, because as you know, we are well represented in both categories and we are agnostic to the driveline question here, so we don’t see the effect on our end here.

Thank you.

Thank you very much, Nadia. I am confident that we will deliver a substantial increase in sales, operating cash flow and adjusted operating income in 2024, while maintaining substantial shareholder return. Our actions are creating both short-term and long-term improvements, and we believe these actions enable us to take important steps towards our targets, while we remain agile and prepare for more adverse market development, should that be necessary. Autoliv continues to focus on our vision of saving more lives, which is our most important direct contribution to a sustainable society. Our first quarter earnings call is scheduled for Friday, April 26, 2024. Thank you everyone for participating in today’s call. We sincerely appreciate your continued interest in Autoliv. Until next time stay safe.