Mike Cannon-Brookes
Atlassian Corporation (TEAM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Hi, Greg. It's Mike here. Thanks for the question. Look, I would start with our philosophy here and long-term thinking as a company. We clearly believe that, Atlassian Intelligence and AI and new models are a huge opportunity for us. we think that software is supply constrained, not demand constrained. That will enable the creation of far more software. We are a content text based business and anything that allows you to manipulate, generate, pause, understand, text is very good for us as a company that targets collaboration and knowledge workers. We have a huge amount of data across our set of products and connections to third-party products and the best of big products in the world. That is incredibly valuable for us. So we are huge believers in AI and the potential of Atlassian Intelligence to drive significant value change for our customers.

Secondly, our philosophy is to live with R&D, to build and then customer value before thinking about monetization. I know there may be others in the industry if you go the other way around and announce a price then build something then work out of customer's care. We don't work that way, we go in the other direction. So, you've seen us execute that plan and that play many times over two decades and that's exactly what we're doing in terms of Atlassian Intelligence. We are super excited, and I believe you're at TEAM 2023, one of the best feature set, customer resonances we've had at the announcement and the launch of what we demonstrated to customers, huge customer excitement. Our job now is to turn that into actual customer usage in a huge manner first, and that is exactly what we're doing. Those features are now in the hands of the order of 1,000s of customers. and we are working every single day to make sure that those features deliver customer value and actually used, first.

We do believe they'll drive significant product competitiveness, and unleash your potential of every team, which is what we hear today. There are a number of ways we believe, as we've said before, that we, gain economically from the Atlassian Intelligence feature set. Again, first and foremost, we do believe it will continue to drive significant momentum and migrations of customers from server and data center products to the cloud. Atlassian Intelligence features only exist in the cloud and canon exist in the cloud. So anything that is a carrot to further improve that migration flow is a good thing for us economically as a business.

Secondly, we do believe it will drive product competitiveness and improve our new to new customer conversion rates and our win rates against competitors in all markets. Worth saying that we have built Atlassian Intelligence leveraging our cloud platform, which is both world-class and quite unique. This is a great example of why we spent five to 10 years building this cloud platform, because we can ship Atlassian intelligence features in every product in every category that we're in every market to improve our competitive standing across the board and we think that will come back in new customers and competitive wins over the medium to long-term.

And thirdly, some Atlassian intelligence features enhance and leverage features that are packaged into premium and enterprise additions. So we do believe it will drive some additional movement as customers go from free to standard, and standard to premium and premium to enterprise. Some features do exist in enterprise levels. For example, the Atlassian Analytics features that exist in the Enterprise edition, very powerful set of features to be able to use Atlassian Intelligence to generate queries for you is one of the resident features, but that will hopefully drive more enterprise addition upgrade.

So we do believe there's monetization opportunities for us in Atlassian Intelligence in summary. But philosophically, we're starting with R&D and building a deep set of core capabilities. We believe we can scale for the next five to 10 years as this wave takes over all software. And secondly, we're focusing on delivering customer value first. We are doing that every single day. We remain incredibly bullish about this area of the company.

Nothing, Cameron. I think you now that just reemphasizing that the half migrated seats coming from data center is a really important milestone for us as we continue this long-term journey.

Hey, Fred, I can take that. It's Mike, and thanks for the kudos on dark team and Jira. It's a good example of the amazing R&D team we have. It's done properly with design tokens and all sorts of things across our cloud platform using Atlas Kit. So it will be coming to other products shortly. It's already in hand for products that you see well across the area with a huge focus on accessibility, which has kept us into migrations. Dark team is quite challenging to do in an accessible way that works to meet all of the standards required for people who have accessibility issues when it comes to software.

Gets to some of the migration tooling questions that you've asked. Our migration tooling continues to improve quarter-on-quarter. We work really hard on the tools to make that as self-service as possible. And largely what we are doing is continue to work on the scale and speed of the tools to move huge amounts of data faster and faster the repeatability of those tools. Customers don't do one-shot migrations, especially the larger ones. They will migrate their data across, test it, migrate it again and do that multiple times. So the tooling becomes incredibly important to be repeatable and reliable.

And lastly, we work with customers who have lots of edge cases, some of them have 10 to 20 years of Jira family or Confluence data on-prem. They may have added their own database, they may have done a whole lot of things that we have to take these edge cases to move them across. We continue to work on how to do that as we get bigger and bigger customers, and we can counter more and more edge cases, more of the tooling is self-service and repeatable.

And lastly, we are continuing to work with app vendors and our amazing marketplace community to make sure that their app data and the apps themselves can be migrated as they move from our on-premise extensibility and plug-in systems to connect and forge in the cloud. That's quite a unique migration challenge. I would say every quarter, we get better and better at doing this. We can use less human power to do migrations. We can do bigger migrations. And I'm really proud of how the team is going on managing all of that tooling.

So continuing to improve I don't know it's -- your question was around, is it solved, it will get better every single quarter as it has done for the last three years, and we'll continue to do that as we migrate more and more server and data center customers at the time.

Yes. I just wanted to add on one thing. I was talking to an enterprise customer maybe a month, 1.5 months ago. And one of the things that was coming through to them was the value of the Atlassian platform. And one of the reasons why they opted for JSM. In particular, in this case, they used Atlassian in their Agile and DevOps, the Jira software and other products. The combination of development teams and IT teams is increasingly important. We have an incredibly unique value advantage there as every customer every company becomes a software company, that connectivity between development teams and IT teams is incredibly important.

That's powered by our investments in the Atlassian platform over time. You're seeing that come through in Atlassian Intelligence and a whole host of other ways. But it's really gratifying to us to see that resonating with customers, especially the large customers, and it's a big differentiator. The same actually applies on the connectivity between IT and service teams in an organization and the work management space.

So on the other side of our market combinations, as enterprise service management continues to roll out, our virtual agent technologies using Atlassian Intelligence, I think will be a huge boon to larger enterprises in trying to take service management more broadly from IT into HR, finance, marketing and other capabilities. This all relies on the power of the Atlassian cloud platform. It will continue to drive migrations of our largest customers there and I think be a differentiator in the ITSM space.