Mike McMullen
Agilent Technologies, Inc. (A) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think part of the big story, too, Vijay, is the 10% comp from last year as well. But as we said it in the call, we were -- it was encouraging to see some initial signs of stabilization with that kind of book-to-bill on the instrument side.

We got that into the script, Vijay.

Mid-singles. Yes.

Yes, sure, Patrick. I want in lead off, Bob, and then you can add any additional comments you'd like to make here. But when we think about these comps around what we described as a gradual recovery and grow. I think is, first of all, important to remind the audience that we do expect the first half of the year to be very much like what we saw in the second half of '23. But looking forward, why do we think that things are going to be different in the second half which is though it's initial and still early, there are some early signs of potential stabilization that you see in our order book. The fact that book-to-bill for the company was above 1, the fact that we had the same result in our instrument business, which has been the most pressured part of the company. And listen, while it's too early for customers to be confirming their 2024 budgets with us, let's go back to the sales phone, which is a predictor of potential growth, right? So our sales funnels continue to show a lot of interest from customers. And we know that at some point in time of things will start to release. The funnels remain healthy.

And listen, an environment like this, we've seen these things before, which was healthy capital spending has been constrained. So some release can be expected. And we hear -- I don't want to get too down my skies on this, but we hear customers talk about some new focused investments. And I think we're not calling for a big broad-based market recovery, but certain segments of the market are going to be better. We're talking about some investments in R&D tools, what's going to PFAS testing capacity expansion plan we're hearing from our customers, Advanced Materials. And then as you mentioned earlier, Patrick, there's an easier compare in second half '24 as well. So we do expect this return to growth. And I think as -- it's not simply a hope. We've got some information to be kind of back up our thinking there. Again, we'll know a lot better about how things look when we get to the budgeting phase of our customers in early 2024.

Again, right now, the markets for capital -- instrument still remain quite challenged. And as I mentioned, we are seeing encouraging signs of potential stabilization, but it's going to be a journey for our return into growth. And I think our guide reflects that. And again, I think we're -- we've got a high degree of confidence this is what the back half of the year will look like.

Yes, absolutely, Bob.

And Patrick, this is Mike, I stated about the confidence about the growth recovery. I think when it comes to hitting the $175 million, high degree of confidence, we control this 100%, and we'll deliver on this.

I'll jump right into that one. So I tried to make that come out in the script. But our plans to continue to invest for the future long-term growth this business remains high. We're going full steam ahead on the capital expansion and they're tracking according to plan. In fact, I think we'll probably do a little bit better on the cost side when all said and done relative to the CapEx that's involved. And Bob, maybe you can talk a little bit about some of the things we're seeing relative -- I think we commented on this before, but what have we seen in the marketplace relative to 2024 relative to NASD.

Sam, I know this will be your last call, would have thought it might be interesting for you to jump in here for a second. As part of your transition, you've been talking to a lot of our key customers. And I think we're hearing the same story from them about long-term growth continued investment here.

Do you want to take the first part, Bob, I think it's…

Absolutely, Bob. Why don't pick up from there. So I made a few comments about this in the prepared remarks, but I may first trip to China since October 2019 when we're there for the [BCIA] show. And what did I see, first of all, I'll just remind how quickly things can happen in China. Electric vehicles everywhere, a lot more green, digital adoption was just amazing. I don't think anybody uses cash there anymore. And then you also remind as you travel around the country, just how big a country is, how big the economy is and how big the markets are for Life Sciences. But to your specific question, here's what I was hearing from customers and my team when I have seen as well, which was why do we think this market eventually will return to growth, all the things that have been driving this market over the years, which is primarily the Chinese government's 14th 5-year plan. They're still on it. They're pointing to long-term growth, improving the quality of life in China.

We're hearing stories of new environmental regs coming from PFAS. The anticorruption impacts that we've seen in the health and the pharma space look to may have peaked, with a lot of the actions occurring, which could ultimately long term, lead to more R&D investments because there'll be less money being spent in the SG&A area. But I don't want to be too short-term optimistic about this expansion of growth because the business is bouncing along at a certain level. And that's why we call it stabilization in our prepared remarks. So what we're seeing, what we're forecasting, what we're hearing is from our teams and our customers don't expect any significant near-term improvements but don't expect any significant near-term deterioration either. And I think that's why when you look at the year-to-year numbers in terms of growth rate, Bob, was probably a comp -- payer issue. But we've had a couple of months now just run at a certain level, and that gives us the sense that what -- I think we used were potential signs of stabilization. So I hope that helps.

Yes, I think the answer is the deal funnel still remain elongated. So…

Yes. I think as we said earlier, Derik, there's reason to believe that you have the comps working in our favor for the second half, there’s real. And we know that customers want there's interest in the products. And I think they've got a step -- and by the way, we're not calling for this miracle snapback in 2024. But we're also saying that small markets continue to decline 20%, 30% on the numbers we're seeing this year, particularly, that's where the pressure has been. But we know that biopharma, they need some tools for R&D. We know that those replacement cycles only last -- can only be held up for so long. So there's confidence relative to what we see in the funnel. Deals aren't coming out of the funnel. And then although we are focusing here on pharma right now in his commentary, there's a lot of other strength in some of the other secular markets and applied markets, in particular, which is a nice diversification we have on the instrument side as well. And Bob, I don't know if there's any additional thoughts on the pharma story.

Yes. And through the quarter, Derik, we saw a normal seasonality. So there wasn't anything unusual about the order pattern to kind of say, is this a head fake or not. So I think that also is one of the reasons why we say, okay, early signs of some stabilization here. Again, not huge growth. We're seeing stabilization.

And Jack, I think it's fair to say, Bob, that one of the things we were conscious was a lot of commentary about how significantly things we're getting in terms of being worse. And as you know, we've been out for some time, calling for no year-end budget flush, constrained capital environment. We came into the year actually guiding for a slower growth in the second half. So what we're trying to intimate in the call today is what we've been saying for the last several quarters is exactly what we're seeing right now. And I thought -- we thought a proof point was the book-to-bill -- listen, it's not great out there in terms of robust growth, but the sky is also not falling either.

But I think we saw some trends too that we're starting to see, PFAS is also now driving some testing in the food marketplace as well as every country that we talk to is in the process of further enhancing their own reg. So we wanted to have some other areas of potential growth for the company beyond the story around pharma.

I think pursuant to Padraig and Bob, kind of the same rates, right, no significant improvement.

Sure. Bob, maybe we'll tag team on this, which was -- I think the -- relative to the order book, I think we were slightly above revenue for the quarter. No really unusual pacing through the quarter from China. We've been calling -- I know a lot of our conversation today has been about pharma, but we've been saying for some quarters overall for China, it's been a broad-based slowdown. And that's what the business has been, and that's how we ended the year in terms of the end market performance. I will say that we were pleased that we were in line with our expectations for the business. So again, we described earlier that the business was moving along at a certain overall level. I think we do have a view of China that we will still be down in terms of the revenue for the year. But reflective of where we are, where we're seeing the business right now. So…

So how about Bob lead here a few comments. And then I've been dying to pull Phil in on here as well. And maybe talk about some of the things he's seen on the Advanced Materials side, which is a real area of expertise for him, so. But I think your word of tail of 2 cities is really quite appropriate, both in terms of breakout by segment, also by geography. I think we posted 70% growth, if I remember correctly, in China last year. So I mean that's a tough comp. I don't care who you are. But we're seeing continued slowness on the C&E side. Our major customers here are really conservative in terms of their deployment of capital. Many of our largest customers are on cost control. So that's been -- that's what you're seeing reflected in the numbers, and that's why we expect a constrained outlook on that side of the business for a while. The different story on the Advanced Materials, and I think Bob, you pointed to good growth geographically globally outside of China.

And then Phil, I know you and the team got a whole bunch of initiatives around the applied markets, particularly not only PFAS but Advanced Materials. And I thought a good opportunity for me to introduce you to the audience and have you share your perspective on what we're doing on the applied on the Advanced Materials side.

Great question, Bob.

Yes, I think first of all, just to remind the audience, when we talk about the genomics mix business, what are we talking about? We got a $500 million business, probably 50% of it is in QA/QC instrumentation, where we are the undisputed leader here, a lot of appetite to invest here. Our TapeStation product, particularly the consumables business is on fire right now. Capital side is constrained as we've seen across the marketplace. And then I think we all believe in the view that NGS will continue to be a growth market for us. And for the industry, I think that people are dying on back their expectations about how robust it is for a period of time. And I think we're seeing that in our business. So why do we make some of the structure changes we made in the portfolio because we want to ensure that we've got the ability to have a healthy P&L while at the same point in time invest in growth. So there's a reallocation of R&D dollars happening as a result of some of the changes we made that we talked about over the call. So answer the story is we have a lot of appetite for focused investments in areas where we think we can win in genomics.