Mike Nolan
Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (FNF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Bose, it's Mike, and, and good afternoon. I would say, you know, cautious to margins, particularly in the first quarter, probably looks a lot like last year, given the inventory volumes in the fourth quarter are lower, you know, we do have maybe, you know, a little bit of a lower expense base that helps, but, but pretty cautious to the first quarter and a, and a bit more optimistic, as we, as we move through the year. Encouraged by the increase in, you know, resale open orders in January, up 7% over last year and the sequential improvement, I think, lines up well for, for maybe a modestly better purchase environment, as we go through, through '24.

But the, the real difference maker will just be what happens to rates. If we get, if we get better rates, as we go through the year and particularly in the second half, I think there's some upside to margins there. You know, when you think about refi was up sequentially 15% in January, and that was really driven by the modest decrease in rates that we saw, you know, kind of in the back half of the -- of December, I guess. So it's really going to be about the rates, but, but I think there is some potential for modestly better margins as we go through the year.

I would just, just -- I would just agree with Tony that it's -- that those are independent considerations and really focused on the growth opportunities. The growth has been tremendous, doubling assets in three years and the expansion in, in channels to, to sell has been incredible, and we want to take advantage of that.

Chris, do you want to maybe weigh in on your thoughts around F&G's performance if interest rates come down?

And Soham, it's Mike. I would just add then that we would welcome a lower rate environment, given that we don't think it's a significant impact on F&G and it would be a significant positive impact on the Title business.

Yes. On the commercial, and you're right, Soham, it was, it was significantly higher in the fourth quarter versus a pretty good number in the fourth quarter last year. It was heavily influenced by a couple of really large transactions that we had. And so I would, I would expect that number to, you know, kind of reconcile to more normal, as we, as we move back into -- as we move through to '24.

Yes. I, I really don't see that. I think the impact has been with customers negligible. I, I personally talked to a number of large customers, who, who've given no indication that there's any concerns. And I'm not really expecting so many impact from long-term customer relationships.

Okay.

Hey, John.

Yes. I would agree. Obviously, the dollar amount heavily weighted by the TitlePoint deal. I'm looking at the list of acquisitions, about half were in the first half and half in the second. Half of the year at '23, probably a modest impact on, on order counts, but, but I don't have a number to give you, John, as to how much it impacted order counts.

I think it's difficult to, you know, say with certainty. But as we looked at the two months, it looks like, particularly when you get out of the centralized world because it's different there because you have these electronic connections with your customers and they, they kind of turn them off when you have a security event. But I would agree with you, our, our November open orders were off about 10% expectation, and, and that kind of lines up with, you know, the couple of days, where we were really restricted from taking orders.

And then December, to your point, was up 15%, and I think that was definitely higher than expectations. So I really feel like the business that didn't happen in November, we just picked up in December. And when we looked at our revenues kind of on a per-day basis, the last couple of days in November and into December, I think we were just really picking up those closings. And I think it speaks to the great work that our field employees did to, to work with individual customers and, and to move transactions off of a couple of days, to the next couple of days and maybe into the next week. So, you know, I think that's why we said the, the impact was, was very, very minimal. And I think customers work with us very well in, in, in dealing with, with the event.

I have to go back and look at those numbers, John, to give you a better answer. I would say when we look at the full-year in '23, closing ratios were probably lower than historical averages. And I think that's driven by, obviously, the rate environment. I would expect, as we normalize potentially into the back end of '24 and beyond, the closing ratio should improve overall. I would say the same for commercial.

Thanks, John.

I think -- it's Mike, Mark. I think the potential for it to continue to grow is significant. The -- you know, from a kind of a real estate agent transaction coordinator standpoint, I think there's still a lot of upside. And that $1 million number includes both consumers and agents and their staff. So I think there's a lot of potential there.

The consumer number is driven more just by the marketplace. So as more transactions occur, you know, rates come down and more transactions occur, we'll send out more packages to consumers and more consumers will engage with us on it. And, and the numbers are actually suppressed given the lower market. So maybe a long-winded answer to say. I think there's still quite a bit of potential.

Thank you. We are proud of our very strong performance in 2023. We remain well-positioned to navigate the market cycle and are continuing to build and expand our Title business for the long term. Likewise, F&G's opportunities are compelling with many prospects ahead to drive asset growth, deliver margin expansion, and generate accretive returns. Thanks for your time this morning. We appreciate your interest in FNF and look forward to updating you on our first quarter earnings call.