Mike Reed
Gannett Co., Inc. (GCI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, thanks. Good morning. Thanks for the question too. Yeah, there are many initiatives underway that give us that bullishness and that confidence in the shift we're seeing back half of 2023 and early 2024. But let me hit on a few of the bigger ones in my view. Number one, our new content strategy. So we have scale, and the new content strategy is driving further audience growth, which is really important. And we're also through data and AI engaging with that audience better, which is leading to, you know, more opportunities to engage with that consumer throughout their lifecycle on our platform leading to revenue monetization opportunities across the spectrum for us. So, much better digital revenue opportunity as we grow that audience and engage better with that audience.

Second, I would say is our affiliate revenue partnerships. That's bringing in additional broader audience, engaging with us in a different way or coming to us from a different way. And then through AI and data, we're able to engage better with that audience and that's driving not only affiliate revenues, but more revenue on our platform as well. So the content strategy, the affiliate revenue partnerships, using data and AI to engage is really helping to give us a lot of confidence in the growth on the digital side of the platform.

I would also say that we're seeing a much more -- a bigger TAM as we engage with a wider audience on the platform and that and we're seeing our monetization hit consumers all along their journey, which is helpful to our growth now and in the future. A big part of our overall confidence in total revenue growth is seeing that digital revenue growth and surpassing 50% next year, 55% in 2026. And where these digital revenues come from, we have a lot more visibility, which gives us a great deal of confidence.

As many of you know, our most volatile and unpredictable revenue line is print advertising and less than 20% of our total revenue now comes from print advertising and that percentage will continue to decline significantly in more visibility in where the revenues are coming from in the media business and the digital side. More visibility on the DMS side with a much more recurring nature to that revenue on the DMS side. And then I would say finally this new management team, is in place as of essentially this summer. So the things they're executing on are just starting to take hold. We've barely seen the fruits of that in 2023. We'll really see the fruits of that 2024, 2025, 2026. So I guess to sum that up, content strategy, use of data and AI, our new affiliate partnerships and this management team and their strategy are really giving us a ton of confidence as we look out over the next three years.

Yeah, the ARPU is a good starting jumping off point to answer that question, because that ARPU growth we're seeing, especially the back half of 2023 obviously that carries into 2024 and with our renewed subscription strategy focused on bringing in the right customers at the right price points and improving retention, we expect that ARPU to continue to grow, so that will be a revenue driver. We're also seeing volume, growth again in the back half of the year and we expect that to continue over the projection period. So we feel that will be a nice revenue driver. But the biggest things that are going to drive our digital revenue growth go back to really the confidence we have in the overall business projections. Number one is our content strategy, which is growing our audience and growing the engagement with that audience, which just leads to more digital revenue opportunities off the platform and that is furthered by our affiliate partnership strategy, which leads to more audience hitting us, coming to us and it fuels the first point of growing audience, growing engagement leading to more advertising opportunities as well as subscription opportunities as well as affiliate revenue opportunities.

And then we have the DMS business, which you heard from Chris today. We have vertical expansion underway, developing that subject matter expertise, growing our algorithm to be able to deliver similar results in other verticals, diversifying ourselves from the home services space gives us a much bigger addressable market and more opportunity for growth, and then leveraging AI and data to acquire customers, but also to grow our product set in that business gives us a lot of confidence for growth too. So there are several factors here that are not really on the come. We're seeing those results back half of this year and early in 2024 give us the confidence to grow 10% on the digital side in 2024 and to accelerate that growth 2025 and 2026.

Yeah. So we're obviously, we're really excited about this potential revenue stream. It's really new to us in 2023. We signed five deals in 2023, two of those were signed in the fourth quarter. We really, we only had two that were live in 2023 and they were not live for the full year. So we generated somewhere just below $10 million of revenues in 2023. And as we mentioned on the call, we expect that revenue to more than double to $20 million in 2024 as all five deals get live, which they are now, and so last year's results were really based just on two deals that were not live the full year. This year we'll have five deals live for most of the year. However, there's a lot of maturity to come with those deals. So what we're seeing in 2024 is not where we expect these deals to end up. So as we mentioned in the call, we expect pretty significant growth from the current five deals we've signed And then of course, we expect to sign more deals than the five we have today.

Turning to your margin question, these are, I would say, 95% to 100% margin. We really don't incur, any incremental cost. The content comes from our partners. It's on our platform. Users come and engage and we generate revenue. So the margins on this revenue are almost 100%.

Yes. So there's two sides of AI. One is how we're leveraging AI to improve our business and our business opportunities. The other side of AI is the continued theft of our content and us preventing the theft of that content and eventually being paid fair value for the great content that we produce every day. So starting with the benefits of AI, those tools obviously, I'm stating the obvious here, but they're evolving rapidly. We're embracing them, you know, as quickly as we can, but we're being thoughtful in how we deploy them so that we're not making big mistakes.

High level, we're using the tools to reduce costs, increase efficiencies, and to drive revenue. This is an important note, we're not using these tools to replace journalists or to publish content. We're using them more behind the scenes to help our journalists become more efficient, leading to more time for each journalist to be able to create more content.

We're also using the tools to better engage with customers and business customers, and the benefits will continue to accrue as we use these developing AI tools through increased productivity, intelligent monetization strategies, new product opportunities, cost savings and then the revenue opportunities that come from increased productivity and new product opportunities.

Switching to the other side, Giuliano, on the licensing side, nothing yet to report. We do believe that we will be fairly compensated for this content. We do believe this content is immensely valuable to so many of the learning machines out there around AI, and the thing about news and information is it constantly refreshes. It's not stale. And so there's real value in that in feeding these machines. I can't tell you whether it's, next month, next year or three years when we start to really see these licensing deals come to fruition, but we do believe they will because our content is copyright protected and this content is really important to a lot of these AI technologies. So that -- we haven't built any licensing revenue into our projections we shared this morning. So it's really free optionality for our shareholders. It's all upside to the projections we used this morning. But I would reiterate, we do expect deals to come. I just can't predict the timing of them at this point.

Yeah. So Lee, we didn't give a specific number of guidance on EBITDA. What we did guide to this morning was that we expected growth in EBITDA 2024 over 2023. And so that's continuance of the growth we saw in 2023 over 22. With regard to, McLean, the impairment charge is really to take the future operating expenses for that lease, and impair that now since we're not going to use the office building. So the operating expense reduction we would expect in the future years while that lease is still in place are in the kind of $7 million to $8 million range. So we expect our operating expenses to go down by about $7 million to $8 million as a result of that impairment of the McLean office space.

Yes. So right now, we're our net debt's about $1 billion and as you know, half of that is second lien convertible. So the 1st lien net, we expect to pay down another $110 million this year and we would expect to have still $100 million of cash on the balance sheet. So, we're looking at 1st lien net debt as we end next year closer to about $300 million.

The fully diluted share count, if you count the converts, would add about $95 million to that. As you know, we can buy some of those convertible notes back. So it's $95 million at a maximum, but could be less over time if we buy back some of those convertible notes.

About $27 million.

We just guided to growth this year, Lee. We just guided to growth. It's a little early for us to tell.

Yeah. Thanks everyone and apologies again for the hiccup mid call, but thanks to all of you who stuck with us. Overall, as you can tell, we're really enthusiastic about, the future. We're also very proud of the execution in 2023 given the circumstances and some of the tough backdrop that our industry faces. As you heard today, our strategies yielded solid results and growth and we've built the foundation for sustainable growth in the future.

Entering 2024, we have top tier leadership team, a dynamic content strategy. We're using data to drive improved engagement business with growth with new growth opportunities, with channel expansion in areas where we're actually seeing demand. And based on our progress in 2023, we feel a palpable momentum shift at Gannett and we're heading into 2024, as I said, with a great deal of optimism. So thanks again for your time today and we look forward to updating you on Q1 in just two months. Thank you all.