Mike Mikan
NeueHealth, Inc. (NEUE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So the proceeds received from the Molina transaction in January were $390 million. What was the second question, Josh?

Yes. It's $110 million, $100 million of it is tied to CMS pending approval of the consolidation of Brand New Day and Central Health Plans age contract or if we achieve a three-star in the Part D B&D business. So either way -- either of those being achieved would be the return of the $100 million. The other $10 million is related to indemnity. We expect that the $100 million to come in later this year, probably Q4 of '24 and $10 million related to other indemnity items likely in early '25 sometime.

It's about half. So we're free cash flow positive. But the way I kind of think about the capital position, Josh, is we've got -- as Jay mentioned, we've got about $90 million at the end of the year of non-regulated cash. We -- after you netted out from the gross proceeds and netted out the payments to the bank repayment transaction costs, we put $30-plus million on the balance sheet. So we started the year with about $120 million of non-regulated cash.

As Jay mentioned, we've got about $150 million of cash and surplus that we expect to get back from entities that were in the surplus position. And then we've got the $110 million that we expect assuming CMS approved the consolidation from the Molina transaction. And so those are kind of the cash and capital that we are relying on today.
And then offsetting that is the CMS repayment agreement, which is $290 million which will be accruing interest, depending on when we pay it down based on the surplus return, which we're working on right now, that's the obligation that remains out there. So we're in a meaningfully stronger cash capital position today and feel good about the future.

Yes, I'll start and maybe I'll ask Tomas Orozco, who is our Executive Vice President and runs our day-to-day operations to maybe add in if he has something to add. But we've taken a detailed look at all of our provider partners. And let's start with a core set of our provider partners are our owned and employed providers within our organization, and they performed very well. So we feel very confident that within our organization and our provider base that we've got strong performance that understand how to manage population risk, use our tools and provider enablement capabilities. And so we've got a strong foundation of those.

Obviously, in '22 and '23, we had partnerships with the likes of Babylon, which unfortunately, while we weren't taking significant downside risk as a contractual matter, unfortunately from -- with them going bankrupt, it came back to us in terms of their losses. And so that was a big impact.

We don't have anywhere near that level of concentration. That was a big part of our ACO book of business. We will no longer take any -- that type of concentration risk going forward. So as we look to the future, we look to providers as Jay said, where we can see historical performance strong against the benchmarks. And I don't know, Tomas, do you have anything to add to that?

And Josh, I would just add to that. And just to be clear, while we believe in the ACO REACH program, we really view it as very much aligned with our provider enablement business. We're partnering with providers who are moving to managed care population risk, taking downside risk. And so it very much aligns with our business. And so we're excited about the long-term prospects. But the critical element is to make sure you're partnering with providers who are committed to managing population risk. And so that's something that we've been very focused on. We're not focused on growth just for growth. We're focused on growth where we know we can not only provide high-quality care but provided on a profitable basis.

No, we really haven't, Josh. We've seen stable trends, and we haven't seen anything. In the Medicare business, it's been noted that we saw some elevated trends especially with elective procedures and outpatient care in the later part of the year, but that's stuff that we've seen typically in the fourth quarter. So we don't have any noteworthy utilization changes in the fourth quarter and the ACA exchanges.

Well, great. Thanks for your interest in NeueHealth, and we look forward to updating you again shortly. Thanks.