Mike Mohan
Petco Health and Wellness Company, Inc. (WOOF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Mark, Mike here. Thanks for the question. I appreciate it. Right now, we are really focused on improving our urgency, and driving operational performance and profitability, and really operating at a world-class retail level. So from a Board standpoint, we're doing a comprehensive search, and we're looking for skills in that realm, to help drive our business forward.

Yes. Mark, we're an iconic brand and advantaged ecosystem. And if you look at, how we think about our customer offerings, and the reintroduction of value brands, it's just one part of our story of making sure, we have the assortment that makes sense for our customers.

We have work to do, though, to make sure our customers, and our partners truly understand, what we offer and make sure that, they can navigate that entire assortment, but it fits well within our current strategy.

Thanks, Peter. It's pretty early to give you some specifics, but I'm going to start with the customer experience and then I'll get to your supply chain question. When you look at the broad offering we have on products and services, we definitely have work to do, to improve our in-store and online shopping experience. So our customers, can navigate our breadth of offerings.

We have a very unique proposition that needs, to be clear for people when they shop us in-store and online, and that work can commence immediately, and it has. And as we think about being an omni-channel retailer, we have this unique position of having our 1,500 stores as pickup locations, but there's a group of consumers who want merchandise shipped to them.

And we have work to do, in our supply chain operations, to make sure that we can find the most effective way, of getting products to people, and the team is making progress there. I don't know, if you could add some...

Hi, Steven, it's Mike. Thanks for the question, and I appreciate your acknowledgment. I think, if I look at market share, I first would start that, we're participating in a really large and fragmented market, and we just have low share, independent of our current share performance, the opportunity is significant. And if I was franked with my assessment, which I tried to be in my prepared remarks.

We have room and improvement needed in our retail fundamentals. And if I look at those priorities around, creating an experience that's easy to shop, having an assortment that makes sense, instilling more discipline on where we invest, and how we fund it, it gives us a ton of space, to work on share opportunities in our categories, and across our channels. So, I would answer your question that way.

Yes. Thanks for the question. I would just draw back to the rapid introduction or reintroduction of value brands to our assortment, which was incredible by the work that the team did, but you have to bring it all the way through and make sure customers understand that we have the most complete offering of products and services for pets and pet parents. And we need to spend time attracting high-quality customers at the top of the funnel, which to be fair, we're just starting to do.

So if I look at the changes we've made, it takes time for customers to resonate with what the brand stands for. And we want to be the destination for pet parents to think about every single thing they need for their pet. And so we need to spend some time and investment there.


