Mike Baur
ScanSource, Inc. (SCSC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Keith. It's Mike, I'll take that one. We've got a strategy of continued investment in the places that we see the ScanSource can differentiate. And we believe that the markets we're in are highly-specialized and we continue to be the leader, yet we also believe we should find a way to expand our growth potential. And as we've looked at some of the acquisitions in the past that were done for geographic reasons to expand our total addressable market, they were done for technology reasons.

I think going forward -- and we talked I think over the last three years at different times about some small tuck-in acquisitions, and part of that was driven by the fact that we were working our balance sheet down. And then when we got into COVID, we then found that our balance sheet got engaged again with the supply chain issues and the inventory. So, as our balance sheet frees up, it now gives us the opportunity to think in a more aggressive and larger way about what acquisitions would help ScanSource accelerate our growth and really accelerate our strategic plan, let's do it sooner than later.

Thank you.

Hey, Keith. It's Mike. If I just add a little more color to the question and answer. Over the years, we've always had a really close relationship with all of our suppliers on what is the optimum -- optimal amount of inventory that we need to satisfy demand. And what we're basically saying is, we've always been willing to have a slightly more inventory than the market required, but not to the levels we are today.

The levels we have today are unprecedented, and that's primarily because lead times got distorted during the supply chain crisis. That's over -- that crisis is over. And so we believe that our suppliers will understand why we need to match our lead times and inventory levels with demand. And this won't be a surprise to them, but this is something that we can have an impact on much quicker, as Steve said, than AR. And we believe that the inventory levels are just unsustainable based on what suppliers want. A supplier doesn't want to have the amount of inventory they have to date in the channel, because then it gets dated.

And back to your question, if something is deemed -- if a product is deemed discontinued, we have rights to return all discontinued products. So in that case, suppliers don't want to have old inventory, because then it's just like bananas and the stuff goes bad, and they have to take it back contractually. So our goal is to work with our suppliers cooperatively supplier by supplier and find the optimal level of inventory.

You bet.