Milan Galik
Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. (IBKR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So, as you know, we have significant cash reserves, significant amount of capital that we could deploy and would like to deploy. We have been looking for possible acquisition targets. They are all in our industry. They tend to be brokers who are less efficient than we are. We have closely looked at a number of them. We either find the price to be too high for acquisition or find that the acquisition would represent a very significant amount of work in terms of the integration. So, so far we have not found any target that we would actively go after. But we hope that that will change in the future.

Interactive Brokers has been successful in attracting smaller hedge funds. These are typically the hedge funds that the bigger primes declined to do business with because of the higher cost structure that they have. And then what we find is as the hedge funds get bigger, they start to look around and consider these larger competitors of ours. We would obviously like to reverse that trend, but it’s not going to be easy.

Part of the problem that we are dealing with is that the large primes are banks that have been in business for 100 years or more and they have created a very significant brand recognition. That is what we are up against. So, we hope that the significant amount of capital that we have on our balance sheet will be attractive for the manager that looks at our large competitors, they will consider us because they will walk away with the belief that their assets are safe with us.

Are we talking about thinkorswim and Schwab?

So, to my knowledge, the thinkorswim platform is going to be made available to the active traders on the Schwab platform. So, I would not necessarily see this as an opportunity for the accounts to move from Schwab to Interactive Brokers, but you might have heard something different. I’m not sure.

Well, the margin loan balances are somewhat related to the interest rates, how expensive it is to put the margin positions on. They also depend on the market opportunities that are in the market. So, the higher the volatility, the greater these balances tend to be. As the number of accounts is growing, that should also increase the margin balances. So, I’m optimistic that they will increase over time.

Well, I think the best piece of guidance we can give you is that you can look at how we have been growing over time and you can sort of jump to your own conclusions as to how that is going to look. The mix of the business, the various segments of the business that we have -- individual clients, introducing brokers, hedge funds, prop trading firms, financial advisers -- It’s not obvious to me how that makes you change over time. So, I would expect roughly the same growth numbers for the next year.

Maybe as the IPO space becomes more active, there are going to be some overpriced stocks trading out there with relatively small float and that could act as an increase of this activity.

Well, so there are various factors that we take into consideration. Number one would be how big the acquisition is, how much of our capital would we have to spend. Obviously, we would not want to spend our energy on something too small. And at the same time, we would be too worried about getting into something very large.

We would look at what is the overlap between the financial services company we are looking at acquiring with what we are currently offering to our clients. How much synergies can we recognize. The amount of work that we would have to do to integrate the acquired company systems with ours. So, all these things are closely looked at apart from the pricing structure that the to-be acquired company has.

In other words, how much would we have to adjust, the commissions and interest they charge. Would the revenues significantly change if the company becomes associated with Interactive Brokers? So, there is a whole bunch of different factors that we that we look at, and we have done that a number of times. We have gotten close to two purchases, in both of the cases, we were not able to agree on the price with the target.

So, 70% profit margin would get somewhat affected by the decrease in interest rates. You have already heard a little earlier, Paul Brody talking about the impact of the quarter percent cut on our net interest income. However, as Thomas alluded to, we hope that the commission income would offset these decreases in net interest income. So probably the revenue wouldn’t change.

What we have to pay very close attention to is our expenses. We have a very significant headcount—there is 2,900 employees working for the company. We have recently, over the past several years, we have had to increase the compensation every year because of the significant inflation, that inflation may stay with us, which would mean that we could expect the compensation expense to increase next year as well. And this is something that we really need to pay attention to. We would like to keep the headcount the same, if possible. But obviously, that could change. If we ever see that we are falling behind in customer service, we would have to adjust. But with the advances in, for example, AI, we hope that we can keep this number steady.

Well, I would not necessarily look at $10 billion excess as the guidance towards the size of acquisitions we would be willing to make. It would be most likely the case that the acquired company would be paid for as a mix of stock and cash so we would not use up all the cash. We like to have a strong balance sheet. We have seen what happened to Robinhood a few years ago. We have seen what happened to Knight Trading -- I don’t know whether you remember them -- more than a decade ago. We like the safety that comes with a strong balance sheet. So, we would not want to spend anywhere near to the entire excess capital that we have.

It’s about efficiencies. There is no preference. We are a global company, so it really doesn’t matter where.

So we are of the view that we are sufficiently staffed on the technology staff. As far as the customer service is concerned, we are paying very close attention to our metrics— the abandoned calls, calls in queue, wait times. They have looked sufficiently healthy that we are running at the levels that we are comfortable with. If, all of a sudden, we receive either by acquisitions or by organic growth, significantly higher number of accounts, we may have to adjust but we are trying to counteract it as much as possible by automating the customer service as much as possible.

And I could probably say similar things about the surveillance employees and operators that we have. There are hundreds of them that we currently employ. We constantly work on making the tools that they use more efficient, so that even if the market activity picks up and number of accounts increases, we would like to be able to operate with the same level of staffing as we currently do.

So, we were one of the firms and maybe the only broker that was making these 11 ETFs available on their platform on Day One. Our customers immediately started trading these ETFs. Obviously, this is going to make the cryptocurrency investing more mainstream, because the investors that were reluctant to jump into this space before, having these ETFs in existence made that easier for them. So I think they are going to— the cryptocurrencies are going to become a portion of a great number of investors’ portfolios out there. As to what it’s going to mean to our investors, our customers, it’s hard to tell. As you know, our clientele tends to be a little bit more active, more sophisticated. I think some of them will recognize the opportunity to trade the cryptocurrency itself as well as the ETF on our platform. There may be some arbitrage opportunities that develop. I think it’s too early to tell how it will play out.

