Mitchell Dolloff
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (LEG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Good morning, Susan. Thanks for the question. I think the big picture for me is the restructuring is more than just thinking about our capacity. But Tyson, let me turn it over to you to share your thoughts.

Yeah. I'll take that one, Susan. So great question. Yeah. I think the restructuring is certainly important for us. I think it resets us for sort of the more forward-looking market environment. And I don't mean that from a capacity standpoint, as Tyson said, we're really looking at sort of the normalized growth that we would achieve in bedding over the longer term. But beyond that, I think we have other actions that we can take and we are taking. The biggest one, of course, is volume. So when markets are residential end markets start to come back with volume, that has a huge, huge impact on the EBIT margins for the company overall.

But beyond the restructuring, I think we have opportunities to continue to optimize our operating efficiency making sure that we are being as effective as we can and that we are producing products and even in certain lines that are value added to us. Continuing to recover cost impacts outside of just raw materials and whether that's through pricing actions or continuous improvement activities are just new product introductions that give us those opportunities as well.

And then, I think it's always been a priority for us, but to continue to closely manage our corporate costs, make sure that they're aligned with services that are providing value and improving efficiency. As we always say, continuing to drive innovation and providing solutions for our customers to enhance our partnership with those key customers as well. And then finally, continuing to assess our portfolio management.

So we see that there's opportunity for us to continue to drive improvement for the longer term across the company beyond just the restructuring. There's restructuring is certainly important. It's near-term focus, but [Technical Difficulty] on these things. So I think we need to get to some visibility about the volume recovery, get more -- progress going on the restructuring and get some more insights into the benefits from some of these other items I mentioned, and then we'll get those targets back on the table. But certainly, we believe it's something that's important, and we're focused on it.

Tyson, I’m happy to hand that over to you.

In terms of some of the financial stability to [indiscernible] participate in the market today and just what the margin proposals of those products would look like. Do you agree with that?

Yeah. Thanks, Bobby. I think that we have been making progress as we've gone through the last couple of years. We've seen still a lot of dynamics in the automotive industry, but we definitely see volume coming at back and that's helping and we see improved margins and in automotive we still have work to do and room to make those improvements, but we're definitely on the right path. Similarly, although, it's smaller in aerospace, very strong backlogs in the industry. So that volume will continue to come back, again, not as just as large of an impact as automotive, but it certainly will help.

And then we're seeing a little bit of a challenge in the year -- in this year on hydraulics, where there's really strong backlogs, both in material handling and heavy construction markets. And we see, the strong backlog at least through the first half in the U.S. on the on that part of the market. But the heavy construction side in Europe, particularly in Germany, it seems like it may be a little bit more challenged in demand. So we’ll see some ups and downs.

But I think that the progress that we’ve made over the last couple of years in specialized, I think, demonstrates our confidence in the ability to return back to a higher margin profile, certainly, maybe it doesn’t go back to the peak margins that we had. But certainly back to the higher margin profile that will provide a lot of benefit to the company.

All right. Thank you, Bobby.