Mitch Fadel
Upbound Group, Inc. (UPBD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

This is Mitch. I wouldn't call 19% the new, the new run rate. Although, I will tell you it's held up really well going into this year. Our guidance for -- and I'll come back to that in a second, guidance for ‘24 is mid to high single digits on GMV four Acima. So we certainly expect to continue. In fact, it'll be higher than that at the beginning of the year. It'll get a little lower as we comp over the plus 19% in the fourth quarter, and in fact, January within the 15% range and February's looking to repeat that so far.

Obviously, February's not done yet, but we're talking about 15% in January and looking about the same so far, at least in February, so really strong momentum. We're saying mid to high single digit GMB growth for the year because it will get a little tougher as we get later in the year. But when you are comping over 19% in the fourth quarter, but really strong -- obviously at the 19% really strong so far this year, and we're really happy with the demand and the overall performance of Acima keeping delinquencies flat with all that growth.

And good underwriting everything we just talked about in the prepared comments. But a lot of momentum, a lot of new merchants lot. In fact, I think it was on one of the slides or it is on one of the slides, we added 6% merchant growth. Our productivity per merchant went way up in the quarter, about 25% increase in productivity per merchant. Our direct to consumer almost doubled the business from last year in the fourth quarter. Our e-comm did double in the quarter smaller numbers, but those numbers doubled. So, every aspect of their business is going really well.

Sure. Kyle. In the fourth quarter, we had great growth in every segment, every category that we're in, even furniture that's obviously had a lot of headwinds. But we grew in all of them. All the ones you mentioned, everything we're in, it was pretty consistent across the board, of course, again, it's not just a matter of our current merchants, just more productivity within the current merchants. We're adding a lot of merchants, like I said, 6% growth, and more coming in the first quarter. Adding merchants and getting more productivity in each category is driving those numbers.

Yes, I think that's a great add-on that's growth with lower approval rates than 19% growth.

Sure, Bobby, good question. I think, at the end of the day, we're taking share, just to cut to the chase. And when I say we're taking share, there's different ways of taking share. When an account taken away from someone else, you can get in a better position with that account, because you're servicing them better or the flow is better, the other e-comm flow whatever. You can get in first position wherewith retailers that have more than one LTO option in the store. We had some where we got exclusivity in the store, we had some where we took the account from a competitor. So, it's a combination, all those things. I think when you sum it all up, we're taking share.

And one of the big successes of Acima, as you know, Bobby, Acima has a fantastic. One of the things we loved three years ago, last week when we acquired Acima with their sales team out in the field and with a strong sales team as the way the Company built with that diverse sales team and really go after the regional and SMB accounts. And of course, we've got the enterprise team too. So, we've got a multi-pronged diverse approach where this fantastic sales team. Between the people out in the field and some inside sales support, you're over a hundred people, probably about 125 people in total. And they just keep adding accounts and servicing those accounts well. And we just keep adding -- not only adding merchants, but getting in better position with merchants being first one they run, and as long as we approve that customer, then they don't run them through anybody else. Things like that. Taking accounts, taking market share.

And then we got some good regional wins, we got some national wins, on the board, some bigger accounts like Ashley, that family mentioned, and we got the enterprise team going after the big accounts. But as you know, the biggest accounts are such a long sales cycle. We don't just rely on going after those big accounts. We're growing merchants whether we get a big account or not, we don't rely on that. We're in the conversation with every one of the large accounts. But like I said, the sales so darn long, we don't put all our eggs in that basket. We have much more of a diversified growth strategy.

The sales team is one of our differentiators. The other differentiators that that sales team uses, like the options we have for retail partners to be virtual or we can staff stores if they're high enough volume, they can do either or some stores can be staffed, some can be virtual. We've got a great e-comm platform. We've got full online capabilities for any retailer that wants to use full online checkout capabilities. I mean, for any retailer that wants to use it, and a lot of them do. And then the direct to consumer, the Acima marketplace doubled year over year. So, I think when you put it all together, we've got a lot of diverse growth vehicles, not everything all in one basket, and we're taking market share.

I think we're at a good scale. We mentioned -- Fahmi mentioned when we talking about the 2024 outlook, we were able to keep -- by building scale and by adding things, a lot of technology investments and so forth. We're able to keep our percentage, our corporate overhead percentage, the same as last year, which I think going forward when you start talking about ‘25 and beyond, we talk about leveraging the revenue growth obviously this year keeping that percentage flat and then seeing leverage down the road as the revenue grows.

But I think this year we've got the investments already in there keeping the percentages the same because with revenue growth, you should actually see it go down a little bit. But because of some of those investments we've had to make, they're in there. And so, I don't think you would have to go over that. And I think actually if you want to look longer term, like ‘25 and ‘26, you'd be talking leverage against that number.

Yes, there's not as much overlap between the Acima customer and the Rent-A-Center customer, as you might guess. It's certainly -- of course as we look at the demographics, there is a bit of a spread between them. The customer going in shopping for retail and getting denied or maybe not having traditional financing options, there is a pretty big difference between them and we don't see a whole lot of overlap.

We see as you probably know, Brad, the repeat business is extremely strong in Rent-A-Center. Of course, you can get every product under one roof at Rent-A-Center, and it's a little more the demographic a little different than the Acima customer. So depending on the year, we see as much as 70% repeat business in Rent-A-Center and Acima it's about half that from a repeat business standpoint.

Something we're always trying to grow because they -- again, it is more diversified if they got tires somewhere or they got furniture somewhere that it may be a few years before they come back and use Acima. We only count repeat business if it's within a period of time. I think its12 months when we count it as repeat business. So, we do get a lot of repeat business. I guess the short answer is, we get a lot of it more Rent-A-Center than we do at as Acima just virtual the way the business models work.

But I think where the expansion of the consumer base -- well, let put it this way, if 35% roughly of Acima customers are repeat business, obviously 65% are new. A lot of new customers coming through the pipeline more so at Acima than Rent-A-Center because we're getting them through all those retail partnerships. You're talking about over 35,000 retail partner stores that you could do a lease into Acima, not to mention the direct to consumer stuff. And I say 35,000, and then a website like Wayfair is one customer, right.

So, there's an awful lot of places that LTO is becoming much more popular and much more mainstream through these retail partnerships, and a lot of new people are being exposed to it. I think, especially if the economy gets any worse going forward, even more people will get exposed to it. More people will need it. Family mentioned, the credit card fee, late fee kind of thing could affect some approval rates above us. And we may get more trade down going forward. We didn't build that in, but it certainly could be a tailwind for us. So a lot of people need LTO and a lot of people getting exposed to it every day.

And the other exciting thing about the underwriting is not just as Acima, we mentioned that we're taking our legacy business, we only have two more large retailers to convert, and that'll be done by the end of the first quarter. So that we're excited about the early results of accounts we've already switched over there. Again, getting in line compared to the underwriting that Acceptance Now was using.

And we're excited about that because after we get through, as Fahmi mentioned, after we get the first half of the year, the losses come down from where they are now based on the consolidated losses come down after those accounts were run through, and then we'd have all of A Now on it, looking at some of those best practices, some of the great tools that the Acima uses, and using them on the Rent-A-Center side as we get into 2024 is exciting.

So, there's some potential tailwinds on underwriting. We talk a lot about A Now, but even on Rent-A-Center, using some of that same team to influence and put some of the same tools on Rent-A-Center that can -- not only most people only think of underwriting. Well, if it's better underwriting, you reduce your losses. But one of the things you learn when you really dig in is better underwriting also finds you green shoots of things you can approve that maybe you weren't approving before.

So it can also drive volume be, because if it is so much more sophisticated than targeted, you don't have to cut out whole swabs of a particular group or and if a customer looks like this, you cut out the whole group, a particular score or whatever. And when it's better sophisticated and targeted, you certainly can -- maybe you can improve half of what you would've turned down in that group that's got a particular vantage score or whatever.

So, it can find your volume too. So, we're excited about some of those things that once we get Acceptance Now done of how can some of those same tools help Rent-A-Center drive more volume and with lower losses as well. So the underwriting is a real -- there's two things that we really loved about Acima three years ago when we bought it, about the organization that -- had built was the underwriting capabilities. And we're seeing that, and then the sales team I was talking about earlier, the way it was such a diverse growth vehicle versus only going after a certain type of account.

We got competitors that only that we -- and there's some good competitors that go after just the SMB accounts. And then there's other competitors that only go, we only compete with when we're going after the big accounts and, but we're in all of them, whether it's one team's on the small accounts, another team's on the regional accounts, another team on the big accounts, the enterprise accounts, you'd call them.

And even though we see different competitors in each one of those buckets, we're the only one in every one of those games. And it feels really good. And that's the way -- it seamless built on that small SMB business. We've added the enterprise team, and those were the two things we loved about it. The way they approached the sales and the great sales team, some of the great people they have on that team and have had since the beginning as well as the underwriting. And we're seeing the fruits of all those things now.

Sure, Anthony, good morning. Rent-A-Center -- those new products that we put in the fourth quarter, pretty really small contribution. I would give them a little bit of credit, but not much quite honestly, but a little bit. And obviously we expect them to grow in 2024. But it was pretty late in the year.

So, the thing about the thing probably that helped Rent-A-Center more than that is overall the extended aisle that we added to all year adding products in not necessarily new categories, but new -- a lot more product offerings on the website where instead of going through the -- let me give you an example. The 20 living rooms maybe that we had on a fast ship to our stores that our stores could get on a weekly basis from say, an Ashley Furniture from the manufacturing side of Ashley Furniture.

Now the customer can shop the all of Ashley's products on the website and the special order anything on there through our Rent-A-Center store. So I think the extended aisle on there, there's so many more products, like 6,000 more products or something. I mean, it is a huge number more products on there and that's really where the growth of Rent-A-Center is coming from. As I mentioned, in my prepared comments over 30% more web visits, 16% more orders coming through there. And that's what tighter underwriting as well.

So, when I say orders coming through, those are orders that -- those are approved orders coming through, and we got 16% more. I think the extended aisle is more the story in Rent-A-Center. I think certainly the demand is there, the consumer's still under pressure. And the good part about that business, the reason it turned 50 years old last year is when the consumer's under pressure we get more trade down and when things are better we get better performance from our base. And that's the resiliency of the business of why it goes through very well through any cycle.

But the second part of your question, I think tightening above us has to be helping when we look at vantage scores and people ask us, all the time about trade down and we saw it early last year in the scores coming through, then it kind of leveled off. We've seen them go back up just a couple of points though in the last say, well, maybe six, eight weeks. They went up early last year leveled off.

Now, we're seeing them tick up again a little bit here recently. And then it is not all just about that score either, right? Some of it is mindset if the customer goes into Rent-A-Center because they don't want to commit maybe to a contract and they're just rent it and see what happens to their finances over the next few months. So it's a much more flexible, uh, way to acquire things, obviously because you have return at any time.

It's a much more flexible way to acquire things for your home than a revolving account or finance contract where you can't just give it back to the retailer. So, I think trade downs part of the story, not just when you look at vantage scores or credit scores or something like that, I think mentality is always part of the trade down when the economy worsens. So I think that's certainly part of it, and both the Acima side and the Rent-A-Center side.

Of course, Ashley also has a lot of licensees, so when we say exclusive of them, we're talking about corporate stores, which I think there's over a 100 corporate stores. We were splitting them. There was two LTOs in there before now there's just us. And the website was split between two LTOs and now it's just us. So we've been with them a long time, but we're splitting the account and now it's a 100% ours, I don't know the number. I mean, I imagine it was probably worth a couple of points of the 19% though two or three. I'm looking at --, 2% or 3% probably out of the 19. It's not insignificant. But it's not the whole thing either. There's a lot of growth out there.

Well, you're asking me to get technical now, Alex, but I'll do the best I can. Yes, the only -- when I mentioned the unaffiliated merchants, I'm talking about the Acima marketplace where you can go on there and you'll see a partner. We were just talking about Ashley. You'll see a partner like Ashley where we're certainly integrated with them and so forth. Then you'll see another partner on there like Best Buy where we're not fully integrated with them, we don't -- we're not on their website, but yet our customers can shop Best Buy and put it on Acima lease if they go at it through Acima, through the Acima marketplace.

We can take unaffiliated partners like that and put them on there. So when you say, what's the growth potential of that? I mean, it's almost any retailer out there. The largest retailers in the world you can put on there and then our customers can shop there. So, we've got some already that are unaffiliated. I mentioned, Best Buy, and there's a few others on there that are unaffiliated, but more will be added really every quarter.

And of course we're partial to the ones we're affiliated with to put on there as well. Not every single one of our partners wants to be on there. They'd just rather us be their partner in their stores, but most do, and so we put them on there, and you can find any of our partners on there, even local partners through something we call find a store. If you are shopping in one particular area, you can find one of our partners there. But as far as nationwide ones to answer your question, really the sky's the limit as far as how much we can add there. And like I said, it doubled in the fourth quarter the GMV from it.

Good morning. No, it doesn't. I think, all of the credit card providers are finding ways to maybe offset some of those rule changes and our partnership is no exception to that. We're even more bullish about the opportunity just based on the feedback we're getting from some of our retailers and specifically the more the larger retailers around the benefit of having two products under one umbrella and one integration. So, if anything, we're more bullish about the opportunity.

Thank you, Victor. And thank you everyone for your continued interest in our business. As we discussed today, we're awfully proud of what we achieved last year. We look forward to updating you across the year on our progress in 2024. We certainly believe our team's focus on the customer and on our retail partners and new partners and existing partners and so forth will continue to create opportunities for growth that at Upbound, whether you're talking to Seymour, the Rent-A-Center side and create value for our investors. So we appreciate you, we appreciate all of our hardworking teammates out there in the field.

And with that, I'll just wish everyone a great day, and operator, you can now disconnect. Thank you everyone.