Morris Goldfarb
G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. (GIII) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks for your question, Ed. Nautica today is an important brand in Authentic's portfolio. I'm not at liberty to discuss the scale of it, that's really Authentic's privilege to do. I'll tell you that it's not very large on the women's side of it, which is our opportunity. When we took on Calvin Klein it was virtually a men's brand. Tommy was skewed toward the men's side of the business. And our forte is women's. So, we're very comfortable in the brand tucking in more toward Tommy's sort of attitude. It's an incredibly well-recognized brand throughout the world. We're capable of making the appropriate product for it. We have the sourcing in place, we have design in place, we have distribution in place, and I think the odds are stacked in our favor to make this a very, very important brand in our portfolio.

So, we're excited by the opportunity. And, uniquely, most of the category sat in the hands of SPARC, which is an arm of Authentic, and we were able to aggregate multiple categories that we will launch as appropriate for our relationship for PVH. So, the first launch will be the jeans launch, which we're developing as we speak. We'll ship product the beginning of calendar 2024. And we've got support from our existing partners and or retail partners, so no reason that this brand can't be a significant piece of G-III's business.

I guess for clarity sake, we probably should define at this point our investments. We have an investment in a pure play aggregator of digital businesses, composed in there is four unique situations, all are profitable. And strategically, we're sourcing product for them as well. So, sort of it is strategic relationship as well as, call it, a learning experience, as Neal described. And the other one is we own a stake in [Saks OFF Fifth's] (ph) digital business, as was negotiated with Saks a couple of years ago, it's almost two years at this point. So, we own a stake in that, and that's tucked into that dollar value as well.

Paul, our order book supports the projected shippings that we have. We have a pretty strong order book. The bulk of it supports moving our existing inventory, which is something we're very happy with. So, we should be able to rationalize our inventory levels by the end of the year. There's, I guess, a price to pay for holding all that inventory. Part of it is our freight costs associated with those inventory and with that inventory level; they're old freight costs where we were paying as much as $17,000 or $18,000 a container. So, that resides in our inventory. The new deliveries are somewhere around $3,200 a container, so there's a vast difference to old margin versus new margin.

And we're trying to make the best sense of it so we can. So, we'll call this a little bit of a cleaning up year. We had more issues than we expected last year in logistics, they came at us every which way, caused by the environment, caused by cancellations, caused by retailers appropriately managing their business and taking the pain off of their shoulders. So, it all fell on us, and we are who we are. We'll get over it, and then we'll get back to a normalized G-III in the near future.

So, the volatility in comps this year versus last year, part of it was a unique anomaly. If you go back a year ago, our business was off the charts. Anything that we had had a home, we were able to ship inventory, and inventory was in high demand, and deliveries were late, retailers were not canceling late deliveries, they continued to take them in which caused some of the problem through the course of the year. So, we had open windows, we had sufficient inventory, and we shipped -- if you go back to the prior year, you go back to the pre-pandemic, last year was more than 20% greater than the pre-pandemic years. So, we're back to a cadence that's similar to pre-pandemic. We're managing to the inventories that retailers are trying to maintain.

There's a high level of focus, as we all know. Retailers have had an overabundance of inventory, and have been busy rightsizing their inventory levels as we are. So, the first quarter this year is close to flat to pre-pandemic, but this year being fiscal 2024 will be close to pre-pandemic levels. And we see the year balancing out where we believe that our business will be pretty much flat to this past year. So, our Q3 and Q4 shipping levels will be accelerated to last year. And at that point we believe that we'll have right-sized the inventory, we'll have right-sized real estate as we make adjustments in the real estate that we hold. And it'll take us a few months to put our business where it needs to be operating with a couple of new brands, going toward eliminating a couple of old brands, and trying to maintain SG&A that's appropriate for our business.

So, we're okay with where we are. We've done aggressive assessments as to what we need to do. And we're on a path. And as far as it relates to Nautica and Donna Karan, Nautica won't be a business of scale until 2025, this 2026, as we enter into additional categories. The first category is going to be the denim business, which is the first category we give back -- the jeans business, which is the first category we give back to PVH and Tommy Hilfiger. It's not a very large business that we've giving back. And we should, at a minimum, do far better with Nautica than what we've done with the jeans side of Tommy, for an assortment of reasons.

And Donna Karan, we're launching Donna Karan. It's open to us in all categories, we own the brand. We've evaluated the merit of the brand; we've outsourced data to make us comfortable that our belief is reality. And we're going to be aggressive on the marketing side. We have retailers that have given us commitments to launch the brand and put it in the place that it needs to be. So, we believe that, long-term, it's easily a $500 million business. And that's not even long-term, but would say that it's probably around three years from now -- three to four years. And beyond that, it's a billion-dollar brand, there's no question. So, they're both amazingly well-recognized brands throughout the globe.

Donna Karan, if you were to think of American designers, Donna Karan is near the top of the list. So, it's well recognized. And again, true to who we are, we produce appropriate product for the venues that we shop to. So, comfortable that we can produce it, comfortable that we can source it, and comfortable that we can sell it. So, there's, again, no reason that Donna Karan won't be significant in our portfolio.

Thank you for your question, Mauricio.

Thank you, Noah. Donna Karan and DKNY were acquired at the same time. They're two separate brands. Most of the world doesn't really recognize that DKNY is a derivative or owned by Donna Karan. We realized that early. And we decided to launch DKNY, in 2017, to serve our channel of distribution which, as you know, is Macy's, Dillard's, it's the department store sector. We didn't position it as luxury. We took it down a notch from where LVMH had had it. And it worked incredibly well for us. When we took it on we were criticized for paying too much money for a brand that provided no profits. So, we didn't look at the profit as we bought the brand.

Fortunately for us, we recognized that there was always a potential that our licensor would take back his brands, and we needed stuff of our own. So, we plugged in the plan that spoke to our strengths with a great brand, more so than the brand than where it was positioned. And quickly, we found that we made an amazing decision. It worked well. And today, I'd say we're in a comfortable level because of that acquisition. Alongside of that acquisition came Donna Karan and we were in a thought process of creating a halo brand out of Donna Karan, and doing pretty much what many companies do. They take the halo piece, and create derivatives out of it in the future. And the halo generally is an expense; it's not a profit-making situation.

So, we looked at it. We had out thoughts. We interviewed marquee designers in our industry, and thought about spending $20 million-$25 million a year on creating the halo. We stepped back and said, "No, we don't need that halo, we'll just softly launch Donna Karan," brought down from designer to -- the opening price points for Saks and Bloomingdale's and Nordstrom's, and we've kept it alive in a small scale with the knowledge that if something happened with Calvin Klein, it would be a great brand to supplement our business and position a notch lower than it is now. So, that is the strategy. We have the tools to not only maintain our business; we have the tools to grow our business.

And we have the appetite to even be more aggressive and acquire additional or license additional products to again show our stakeholders what they've invested in, and how aggressive and productive this company can be. We're not sitting in defensive mode; we're aggressive in how we're positioning our business. We believe and we know we're one of the premiere suppliers of product to the department store sector in the United States. We plan on maintaining that status, and we plan on growing in various other ways. It's a hungry, aggressive team that is driven by success.

Great question. Thank you -- thanks, Dana. Number one, it's only been three months. And then, it's not as if we -- it was a planned event. It came a little bit as a last minute shocker as one might say. But again, as I described, G-III format, I guess we move on. And we move quickly. You might imagine that when the industry realized that we had a couple of open lanes coming, we got some amazing calls and amazing opportunities. Some of them are still under consideration. Some are eliminated because they don't fit our profile. Some just don't work in our eyes. So, take that as one lane of opportunity. And the other, we have been taking about expanding our global reach by aggressively building our business globally.

So, the minute this occurred we retooled -- we went to Dubai. We went to Eastern Europe. We made different alliances or additional alliances than we have had historically. They don't all come to prosperity overnight. It takes little while. But as we mentioned in a scripted form, there are 25 new stores planned for Europe. That's an aggressive number for franchising and pretty much a new initiative, a new focus. So, there will be many hundreds of additional stores opened. We have spoken about opportunities that we found in licensing, hotels, and communities that are going to be important to us as we go forward. The names that we have are well-suited for luxury housing or luxury hospitality. And we have been sold out. And we have made three deals with fourth coming onboard as well; all in different parts of the world, all with a good deal of money behind them.

So, we're happy with what's opening up for us. And, there is a long way to go. As I said, this is not defense time. This is offense. We've got -- we are sighting opportunities. We have support of our retail community. We are pretty good vendor who -- our retailers have prospered with our efforts. And, I think a brand is part of what you buy when you make an acquisition of product. And the other is the integrity and the quality of product and design of product that's delivered. So, I think our retailers are comfortable that we provide sufficient comfort that what we take on will prosper. It's worth an opportunity. So, we have that opportunity. And we think we can grow significantly in our world in coming years.

Thank you, Dana. Thanks for your question.

So, with that, I wish you all a great day, and thanks for speaking with us, and more to come.