Nate Jorgensen
Boise Cascade Company (BCC) Q1 2024 Earnings Call Transcript

Kurt, it's Nate. Maybe just one other data point on as you look at the competitive backdrop in terms of point of floor trusses or dimensional lumber versus I-joists, the other theme that's certainly out there with our builders is they're looking to reduce cycle times on the job side.

And so if you look at, okay, what are the products and tools and solutions that help kind of drive lower cycle time or improve cycle time performance, I-joists are very much part of that answer. So as you think about, again, what the expectations are and the needs are on the job side, I think we feel really good about I-joist being an important answer to reducing cycle times for the builder.

Su, it's Nate. Just maybe as you think about the context and the backdrop for BMD in the marketplace, part of our really important responsibility is how do we serve and support all of our suppliers. And as you think about what they're focused on and what some of the things that they'll be working -- have been working on and will continue to roll out as new products and new services.

So as you think about the importance of BMD to help execute our supplier strategy in terms of their new products, new services. In many cases, there's the SKU intensity is probably getting bigger, not smaller. Those are all really important opportunities for us to support both our supply partners and obviously, our customers downstream. So I think that narrative will still -- has been in place and will continue to grow as we go through 2024 and into next year.

Yes, Reuben, it's Nate. Maybe just to -- certainly, I think Kelly outlined the BMD strategy and our plan. And again, we feel good about how that's showing up in the marketplace each and every day, both for our customers and our suppliers. Maybe just on the Wood Products front, just to reinforce that, obviously, the EWP franchise and the veneer that supports that and Plywood is really -- continues to be the focal point for us.

So as you think about that earnings, performance and stability, maybe as compared to where we were five plus years ago, I think we've strengthened our EWP franchise in terms of our capabilities, our overall footprint in terms of our volume and also, in some cases, we've taken out some products that we simply no longer produce.

So I think that clarity and that focus in Wood Products has been an important part of the answer as well. And we feel good about, obviously, where we're going, given our investments that will be taking place in Alabama and Louisiana here over the next couple of years.

Kurt, it's Nate. Maybe just to add to Mike's comments. I think if you look at kind of a pricing conversation of EWP, this time of the year, this is not unusual when you kind of go back through time. So the fact we hadn't had that maybe during the COVID period was represented something maybe that was different. This is, I think, a typical environment in terms of some of the competitive conversations.

And as Mike described, we'll look at those case by case, market by market. I think as we move -- transition to the building season, I think the conversation then always have to be competitive, but it always comes down to, can you serve and support the marketplace. And it's really critical, obviously, during the building season that you have that provide that great capability and experience for both obviously the lumber yard side of things as well as the homebuilders.

And so that execution and making sure our team stays very focused on that is going to be -- can be front and center for us. And to the extent we do that well, we feel that we'll continue to earn the business that's out there, again, both from our dealer partners as well as our builder partners.

So again, not unusual that we're in this moment today. But as things kind of tension of the conversation will be who can serve and support my business, and again, as Mike described, we feel good about how we're positioned to do that.

Great. Thanks, Lisa. Just we appreciate everyone joining us on the call this morning and for our update, and we thank you for your continued interest and support of Boise Cascade. With that, be well, be safe. Thank you.
