Neil Ashe
Acuity Brands, Inc. (AYI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, good morning, Tim. Thanks for the question. So first of all, we're really proud with our performance. We've obviously demonstrated that we can execute in this environment. And I wish the economy would line up with our fiscal year, but it doesn't. So the -- as we're looking forward to kind of our fiscal first quarter and the rest of this year, while the business is relatively consistent, it's pretty much choppy all over. So we feel good about kind of where we guided for the year given that. And we also feel like there's still strong kind of volume in each of our networks. So the C&I network, obviously, is about 60% of the business. As Karen pointed out, the retail business has remained strong for us. The direct business has been comparatively strong for us. And as you can see in our channel, the OEM business is down, which is our sales to other lighting manufacturers. So taken together then, we feel like we're comfortable operating in this environment and we feel like we've got a responsible plan for 2024

Thanks, Tim.

Hey, Joe. How are you doing?

Yeah. So just for -- just a little bit of historical context as we kind of recreate FY '23, obviously, we burned through backlog through the first half of our fiscal 2023. We talked extensively through the remainder of the year at how lead times have compressed, and that's led to the destocking you referred to. We're now getting to a more normal relationship between order rate and shipment rate. So we're starting to -- and that's what I was alluding to in the answer to Tim's question, we still -- we're comfortable operating in this environment. So I think what we are experiencing now are macro lighting trends. And unfortunately, we're in a period where people are just buying less lighting and lighting controls. I'll also highlight, though, that as Karen pointed out, the Intelligent Spaces Group continues to grow mid-teens. So the portfolio of the business is expanding. At the same time, in both the Lighting business and the Spaces business, we've been able to layer in margin despite the decline in sales at ABL.

I'd just add a couple of things, Joe. First is, obviously, we have done, I think, a very -- an outstanding job of generating cash. So through layering in margin and aggressive management of our balance sheet and working capital, especially on the lighting side, we've demonstrated the ability to generate a significant amount of cash. Our priorities, as Karen outlined, are -- remain the same. We want to grow our business. And so -- but when the market presents us with opportunities, we will take advantage of those opportunities to repurchase shares. We've demonstrated since we've been here over the last 2.5 years that when the stock goes down, we buy more and when the stock goes up, we buy less. And -- but our focus and our priorities are in the order and Karen mentioned them. We want to grow our current business and we want to grow the platform through acquisitions. And we feel good about our opportunities in all of those. On the acquisition side, our priority is the -- is to continue to add to our Intelligent Spaces Group. We think that there are very interesting and in some cases, meaningful opportunities to expand there. And so that's where we're spending the most of our time. But we are also open for business on the lighting side to other specific opportunities.

Yeah. So, Chris, thanks for the question. I would guide you back to kind of historical sequential trends where obviously, on a sequential basis, we drop off from fourth quarter to first quarter and from first quarter to second quarter. And last year, in those same periods, we were still at inflated levels of backlog as we were burning through backlog. So then we get you to a more normal -- in our assumptions, get you to a more normal cadence in the back half of the year.

So our assumptions aren't relying on significant improvement on the -- from a macro environment. As I mentioned, we have returned to a more normal relationship between order intake and shipment rates. So we are -- and as I mentioned, we're comfortable executing in this environment. So I think what we are ultimately suggesting for fiscal 2024 is that by the back half of the year, we end up kind of clearing all of the legacy impacts of the increased backlogs and all of the other supply chain things. And so we end up with a more normal year. I think if you were -- if the economy matched up with our fiscal year, which it has no interest in what our fiscal year is, then you would say -- you would notice the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2023 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2024 on a calendar basis. But that gets us to where we are, which is kind of where you suggest, which is we'll be down in ABL in the first half of the year, and it will normalize a little bit in the back.

Yeah, Grace, as I pointed out, we've returned in the lighting business to a more normal relationship between order intake and shipment rates within the quarter. So we are at normal lead times. So our lead times are in the 20- to 30-day range in our lighting business, which translates to a performance where orders and shipments are consistent. As I explained in response to Chris' question, the -- we were at this point in the -- last year for our fiscal first and second quarters in lighting, we were burning through additional backlog. So we obviously are not burning through additional backlog anymore. So we have returned to a more normal correlation between order intake and shipment rate.

Thank you.

So that is basically all organic. So Distech continues to grow. We've called out the UK where we've had some success in that market, and we'll continue to expand in Asia over the course in Australia over the course of this year and beyond. So that is primarily organic growth. The acquisition that added to that would be KE2 Therm, which added refrigeration controls. So those are added. So we're confident in the organic cash, I mean, the organic growth at ISG. Any acquisitions we make would then be in addition to that, and we see some interesting opportunities there as well.

Yeah. I'll take that one, Jeff. So, as Karen has explained through the course of this year, volume was -- we had a healthy mix in fiscal 2023 first half of both volume and price. That was, again, as we were burning through the backlog. Through the back half of this year, we have delivered performance largely through price as volumes have moderated. So, on a sequential basis, we feel pretty decent on the relationship between volume and price. So we think we're in a healthy balance of both of those for -- in our lighting guidance for 2024. They are -- the volume is impacting and we're comfortable with where we are in price.

Thanks, Jeff.

Yeah. Sorry, if I left with that impression, that was not what I intended to say. So I was talking about fiscal '24 in response to other Jeff's question, which was -- and so how we how we got the -- how we got to our net sales assumptions for the lighting business next year.

So as we've mentioned consistently, Jeff, we have -- our strategy, the underlying strategy of product vitality, service, technology and productivity has afforded us the opportunity to more strategically manage price. So while there were a number of broad pricing actions through kind of '22 and '23, we've become significantly more targeted in those actions now. So for example, we're in the market now. We just recently announced a price increase around certain controls products this quarter. The -- we're also strategic about where we choose to invest in price. That's generally in the Contractor Select portfolio, and it's generally to expand our market share in the electrical distribution channel. And it's highly targeted. So it's very low dollars comparative investment on a percentage basis. So the strategy has empowered us to more strategically manage price. And so we are no longer really going after broad-based pricing changes like that up and down, but more strategically managing on different categories and for different reasons.

And Jeff, I'd love to take this opportunity to summarize kind of where I think we are from a performance perspective. Obviously, it's hard to increase margins when sales are declining. We've demonstrated that we can do that. It's also hard to make the kind of improvements that we've demonstrated and you highlighted from a working capital perspective, we've structurally improved the business. The strategy, as Karen outlined, has changed, both where we -- how we operate and how successfully we can operate. So that makes us very comfortable with our continuing performance around margin and cash generation.

Thanks.

Yeah, Joe, thanks for the follow-up. So again, we would like to provide you as much of a read through the macro as we can, but we can only kind of comment really on our performance. And so as it relates to that, as just to kind of reiterate, in the first half of fiscal 2023, we were burning through backlog. We have now returned to a more normal order and relationship between order and shipment rates, where our order rate is -- it drives basically the shipments within the quarter, and we're at kind of a 20- to 30-day lead times, so average lead time in the lighting business. So things are relatively back to normal. So on a sequential basis, that's how you see the more traditional sequential seasonality play out.

So as we look forward, I'd like to say we know more about the macro environment than others. The advantage, but we -- I don't think we do. The advantage we have is that our portfolio on the lighting side really addresses the -- wherever there can be growth in the marketplace. So the product vitality efforts that we have undertaken, the service levels we have undertaken, allows us to be strong in retail, strong in electrical distribution, strong in each of the categories, well positioned for infrastructure. So we are in the places where we can benefit from any changes in the lighting market. In the meantime, we're comfortable operating at these kind of levels of market activity and continuing to deliver the margins and the cash flow that Karen effectively highlighted through the guidance.

Yeah, sure. Chris, I'll take that. The -- as Karen pointed out, the -- all we are guiding to is net sales and adjusted EPS. I'm confident in your math skill, so you'll quickly realize that, that implies that we are -- we don't need to be at the levels of margin we were in the fourth quarter to -- for the full year next year to deliver that range. What it does say, though, is that, as I was responding to Jeff Sprague earlier, we have structurally improved this business, which allows us to operate at higher margins than the company has operated in the past. It's worth saying that the fourth quarter gross profit margins are the highest in the history of the company. So we don't have to maintain those levels to continue to deliver what we consider to be outstanding performance.

And further, as I have pointed out repeatedly, the -- and our value creation model is about growing net sales, turning profits into cash and not growing the balance sheet as fast. So we've made structural changes, which allow us to operate at these higher margin levels and to turn those margins into cash. So we feel really good about kind of the permanence of the changes that we've made in the lighting business and the continued opportunity we have to improve that. At the same time, we can continue to grow the portfolio through ISG and then through adding additional businesses to the portfolio.

Yeah. No, I appreciate you asking the question and giving us the opportunity to address it. We talked a bit about this in the third quarter call. But I want to reflect on it some more, which is most importantly, our strategy in the lighting business around product vitality, service, technology and productivity has put us in a position to manage price and to manage margins in a step function better way than we have in the past. And so we feel really good about that. As we have evaluated volumes, and I was addressing this with Jeff's question, we strategically managed price where we choose to where we think we can drive volume. We realize that at these margin levels, we've created a significant amount of value. And so we have a lot of incentive to continue to operate at these margin levels. All of the data that we are looking at across verticals says that we are appropriately pricing for the volume that's available in the market. And that's our goal over time. So we will -- that's why we've continued to layer in margin and cash flow during this low volume period and why we believe we're well positioned for the inevitable return of volume growth at some point in the future.

Thanks, Chris.

First of all, thank you all for spending some time with us this morning. We're really proud of our financial performance, as we've talked about through the call. We had a great year. We delivered strong financial performance. We continue to structurally improve both the lighting business, and we continue to grow the Intelligent Spaces Group, and we allocated capital effectively. Our priorities for next year remain the same. We're going to continue to focus on operating excellence in the lighting business and making it more predictable, repeatable and scalable. We'll continue to grow the Spaces business, and we will be consistent with our capital allocation priorities. So we look forward to being back together with you at the end of the quarter, and hope you have a good rest of your day. Thank you for your interest in Acuity Brands.