Neil Schrimsher
Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. (AIT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Yes. So Dave, I can start. I think from the numbers in the quarter we were pleased. The teams are active, both our sales engineers and application, specialists engaging with customers and a real focus is understanding their operations and how we help solve their problems. And think about applications that can be replicated we would see interest in projects and conversion around collaborative robots and machine tending which can help customers with labor. We would see applications and use of vision systems, where customers would apply them for quality control. Enhancements or perhaps also address some labor challenges or constraints when those previously were perhaps manual inspection versus using technology.

We can see trends in consumer packaging, right? There's high standards on consumer packaging on accuracy and labeling and of course, barcoding as those go through more retail environments. And so there's a high requirement there, and so we see vision systems that can get applied into that.

So they continue to grow. We look at how we can set up some of these productized solutions, which we think helps our Service Center teams identify those opportunities and then connect with our application resources to increase that conversion rate. We made reference to there's more projects in the pipeline there, but I'm also encouraged by our automation team continuing to grow in their targeted vertical segments and with current customers as well as prospects and targets they have.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yes. So again, we've talked about it. I think at times I think given the technical nature of our products, the random break/fix demand. Oftentimes, many of those – a little more customized solutions, we do not get a favorable lift from stocking. And then therefore, I think we get some natural resistance to destocking trends. Our customers are really counting on us, given those break/fix requirements around those products and solutions.

So I won't say it's zero, as it goes, but it's much lower than other forms of products and consumables in that front. So as we think about the environment and the guide right our focus is pay will be prudent to some of the cross currents or the trends or publications but we also have a strong focus on our customers and those opportunities and our sales effectiveness that we can operate to continue to perform in any environment.

Yes. So I'd start and say right we're not perfect economist as we think, we'd like to say we're more focused on or hope to be better operators than economists. But if I think about guidance, I would say to your question then around the midpoint, we'd assume kind of a low single-digit year-over-year declines in the first half and then perhaps in the second half more muted or just a slight contraction to the market in the second half.

Sure. So as we think about it and we've touched on, we believe we continue to have gross margin opportunities and the multiple initiatives or focused area that we have there. And so we'll continue -- appropriate actions are in focus around, an execution point of sale. As we think about customer mix that in the slowing environment could be perhaps a little bit of a headwind. We'll continue to work and serve local accounts, but they may be the ones that impact -- or feel that softness a little bit more than more large national accounts.

We will continue to sell technical solutions, which help positive on the mix side and then we will work the other levers as well on the gross margins. I think we've demonstrated ongoing cost accountability in the business. There's some natural shock absorbers that would go in if there is softness that go into play, and so those would help or benefit.

And then as I think about the business overall and LIFO as we think about perhaps LIFO in the first half but potentially that could get to at/or slightly below $8 million a quarter at least for the first half. For the second half, we'll see to be determined but that could be a slight contributor as well.

Yeah, I would say that at the start, we would think about in the first half that the service center business will continue to do well. Our US service center business having strong performance right now. I think some of the overall -- a little bit of a slower start in perhaps Canada and Mexico in that that could blend the overall number down a little bit.

But I would say in the two, and we'll have expectations for performance that service centers could be a little stronger. As I think about the backlog that's predominantly in our fluid power segment within that engineered solutions and while flow control and automation have and we did see a little bit of growth in that in the quarter, the biggest area that we care backlog is around fluid power, a nice conversion in the quarter and we're still operating at good levels on backlog, I would say really at 2x normalized level. So we view that as positive and can provide us some underlying strength as we go forward in really the first half of this fiscal year.

Thanks Chris.

I just want to thank everyone for joining us today and we look forward to talking with many of you throughout the quarter. Thanks.
