Nicholas Fink
Fortune Brands Innovations, Inc. (FBIN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Sue.

Yes, happy to. And those two things are both separate and interconnected. So I'll talk about them. But if you just start with the core, I mean it is pretty much printed in the DNA of our team that the core of the business has to be healthy, right? So the core brand, how we drive them our channels, how we serve our customers, etc. And if you think back to the remarks we just made, all of those brands, over a long period of time have gained share and delivered margin improvement. And that combination is actually very, very important because to us, margin improvement isn't just about additional dollars to the bottom.

It certainly is a lot about that, but it is also about the fact that we are building healthy businesses that therefore have the rocket fuel to reinvest in those businesses and continue to keep it really, really healthy. And so in that core is strong investment in brand. Even in the past year, like '23, we continued to invest in the brand and saw some really great results across the brand portfolio, making significant strides even off of strong basis, a brand like Moen growing awareness [indiscernible], even though it was starting off from the top spot of that.

Investing in innovation. The pipeline is really, really healthy. We continue to target 25% to 30% on new product sales for innovation. We think it's a very healthy ratio, which is a ratio in fact, not just helping on itself. It also tells you our core remains healthy because it's not driving all the sales and then investing in our channel, and our channel advantages and serving our customers.

And so that taking over the longer term really both bring in our historic organic CAGR, which is 7%. And then we look to the supercharge categories of which connected is the leading one that can really drive an incremental growth over time and become future cores of this business. And that's why we work together as a team to really create the scale, things like creating a connected products through across the whole company. Leveraging our digital know-how, combining as we did with Yale and August to really start to make a big site in them because while smaller today than the core business, compounding at the rate that it's compounding at from a growth perspective, it doesn't take off a whole lot longer before that really starts to be material.

And then that's what will drive the growth rate above the historical and organic and so we're very excited about that. What's really important though, because you through the parallel opportunity is the symbiosis between both of those things. And what we found is as we've continued to invest in this type of innovation, things like connected, it really resonates back into the core brain. Consumers are looking for innovative brands. They're looking for tech for brands, particularly as we see younger consumers come into their first time home buying years, are very attractive to that.

And so whether or not they may be an immediate consumer of our brand [ph], they're seeing it out there. They're seeing it advertised. They're seeing it in the press, and that resonates really, really well back into for health. So those things are kind of working very, very well together.

Yes. As we think about the consumer, I think we're coming to a point now where it might be a little bit back to normal, which wouldn't be a bad thing. So obviously -- and which is why we pulled that some of the CAGR since 2019 to just for ourselves as much as help you guys sort of step back and really think about this. But looking across a bunch of consumer data, firstly, I think we've all been surprised at the resiliency of the consumer, they've had a lot to digest over the last few years. But as I look at the data, I mean, things like searches for home renovation continue to be up versus pre-COVID year figure of 13%.

We're seeing intent to purchase at or above long term averages for all of our product categories. And then, of course, on top of that, you just have the fundamentals, the under built, very aged housing stock now I think, $33 trillion in home equity and the very low supply of home starts [ph]. And so you have all of that backdrop.

I think when there's a lot of noise as there was in '23 about rates and home prices, do cause consumers to step back a little bit and reconsider. And I think we saw that through some of the data. But I think hopefully, now we're coming to a point where that underlying pressure of either wanting new or wanting to renovate that start to turn. So it's hard for us to call exactly when. We did see sequential improvement through all of last year, which was a positive. We're being cautious about the first part of this year in particular, and it's going to forward start with cold snap that we had a couple of weeks ago.

But over the long term, I think our consumer is resilient to focus on the home coming through the data points that we're looking at, and as that returns to growth we absolutely expect business to correct at this time.

Thanks.

Sure. Truman, happy. I'll give some broader perspective how we think about pricing strategy generally and then some of the things that we're seeing in price interactions. And Dave may add some color. But I'll just step back for a second. And as I said earlier, fortunately, we're hoping 2024 comes a little bit more kind of return to normal. And if you think about our brands and our categories fundamental to our ability to invest in brain building and best innovation and even best [indiscernible]. But these are very consistent taking our price in fairly small incremental but year in and year out.

And because we do it that way, even in the height of the inflationary period through COVID, you see a business like our Water business only take low single-digit pricing because we were keeping up all the way through, and we were able to manage both pricing and margin. And for that, pricing philosophy is very critical. That's the way we think about the business and a big expectation of our leaders here because it is the fuel that allows us to reinvest the life of both consumers and customers.

Now as you look across our portfolio, in particular, we tend do not play at the entry level. All of our brands are in. There are more premium and up. And we're seeing that in some of the share interactions of just a couple of weeks ago here some data with our teams, and we could see some of our brands increasingly interacting with price points above and not below, right, which is really positive kind of that we're sort of not interacting with things like private label.

The other thing I would say that we've done as part of the Fortune Brands invested heavily in our category management store set. And that is really leveraging data and analytics to understand the consumer, understand the category and understand the shelf. And by understanding the way those things work together in the elasticities, that allows us to go into some of our big customers such as the home sensors and actually make price adjustments sometimes some go down, but net up in a way that we know is going to generate velocity and gross margin that we can share with our channel partners.

And it's been a super successful approach. It is really changed the discussion for us from a kind of win-lose, lose-win to a win-win because it's much more about shelf management and delighting consumers and meeting them where they are. And it is about just moving it from one to the next. So I do expect in '24, we'll see discussions around pricing in one pocket or another. But as we look for those opportunities to we will price where we can. It's going to continue to be a net contributor to our growth for '24.

Thank you.

And just add to as Dave mentioned the weather just interesting. We also saw exceptional uptake through our e-commerce channels for Flo over the last two weeks. Now small base, it will take some time to build, but just we're going to dig further into it, to the extent there's a correlation between the piece like that. We saw a lot of homes damaged and we did a lot of leaks and kind of seeing it come through in e-commerce. So it's a very interesting point.

Thank you.

Yes. Phil, thanks, this is great question. Why don't I take just a minute here to give you some perspectives around Security and Dave can break it down. But we're feeling really good about the Security business, as the top line progress and the margin progress. And again, sort of back to that philosophy, we want a business that can generate healthy margins so we can invest, drive growth and move it from what was historically a GP grower into something quite a bit more exciting and the team has executed fabulously on that path.

And so we're really there, and we're seeing that progress now. And so before I hand it over to Dave, he'll break it out for you between the organic piece and the acquisition just now it's made great progress, and we very much feel that this business is on the path to do what we want to.

And just I'll just add there, on the business, our contribution margins comparable to the portfolio and then really investing for double-digit growth with that digital conversion.

Yes. So I'll start there and David will talk a bit about the inflation. Obviously, the Red Sea and the impacts of the Panama Canal are not kind of lost on us. And those two things sort of working hand-in-hand. Our team has done a great job to maintain service levels. That will mean we will put a bit more capital to work this year to ensure that we don't have disruption for our customers. We may have to put it more expense to work this year to ensure that we don't have service disruptions for our customers, but we always feel that's preferable to protect the business, protect service levels.

It does seem to be improving somewhat in the Panama Canal, which is good news because that allows us to take the lines off of the Red Sea, which has obviously been very challenging. But with the protective measures, we think that we find from customer service perspective may absorb the some onetime capital or other expense in order to do that.

John, great question. So that $650 million in addition too, but that other one expires much first. And so then the $650 million will be our go forward until we authorize more. In fact now our track record has been to do share repurchases really opportunistically and to look for dislocations in value. We run a returns-focused model against our own plans. And we've over time, done really, really well.

I mean if you look at how it has tended to play out, it's from a sort of priority perspective, always, first and foremost, in our own organic opportunities. Those are the most surest and highest returns. And then just interestingly, the way it tended to work out is kind of 50-50 between share repurchase and acquisition opportunities over the long run. Now with acquisitions, we also remain very returns focused. And so there are some nice things we may take a pass on if we don't feel comfortable that the returns are there. And those might be times where share repurchase is preferable. There will be plenty of capacity, and we'll continue to look opportunistically. But when there are those dislocations, I think our track record speaks for itself. We will be there.

Yes. I'd say it's more sort of the longer -- when I say longer, I mean, more than like three weeks a series of data item. So when we look at the sequential improvement, we look at the drivers, we look at the search data, look at purchasing and things like that. I'd say just given January is a lower volume time of the year anyway, and then you throw -- I mean here in this region where we are that we've coldest sequential data temperature since 1996.

On top of that, it just SKUs. The data is very hard to read through. I mean, in that BofA data that Dave referenced well, it was consistent with ours, things like snow blowers and shovels were way up. And so I think we'll need a few more weeks before we can see it definitively in the shorter series, but longer series stuff would point towards that.

So just a quick example of what Dave just referred to, if you look at sort of our corporate line expense. I don't have the actual number in front of me, but I would guess core kind of core corporate functions probably CAGR growth below inflation and have done really well in that historically. And then the rest of the growth in investment is really coming from things like digital, Fortune Brands advantage capabilities, things that will really, over time, continue to drive the transformation of the company and help us grow.

Thanks Adam.