Nick Jeffery
Frontier Communications Parent, Inc. (FYBR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Hi, Greg. It's Nick here. Perhaps I'll start the answer to the question on churn and NPS and Scott hand over to you. Look, on NPS, we are extremely pleased that by some external measures, we've now become the market leader in NPS in a phenomenally short period of time. And that really is the result of a huge company-wide effort to understand all the reasons for customer dissatisfaction.

In fact, the management team at the ExCo look at all that data every single week and have done for the last three years and then systematically remove all the reasons why anyone would contact us or anyone would be dissatisfied and try and make their customer experience, which is a horrible term, much, much better. And that work is really, really paying off. And of course, high NPS leads to higher customer satisfaction, it flows through to lower churn.

And our churn rates are at close to record lows. Would I like to see that go further? Yes. Do I think we can go further on NPS? Yes. Is that work done not by a long way. But will we continue with determination and maniacal focus on creating the best possible customer experience for what is the best product in the market. Yes, absolutely. Scott, do you want to add to that?

Yeah. Sam, it's Nick here. We've always said at least 45%. 45% is just kind of mathematical right outcome in a two player market where some of the market doesn't take service at all and the rest is divided equally amongst the remaining two players. In actual fact, we have many markets and many cities where our penetration in our base markets is already way higher than 45%.

So we have no ambition to stop at 45% whatsoever. We will continue to push very, very hard on this. But because it really, really matters more broadly because our penetration and in fact, our growing penetration in our base markets where we faced a long-established well-entrenched cable competitors where they're already FWA coverage as well.

And yet, we are still able to grow our penetration by over 4 percentage points in the last few years up to very, very close now to our ambition of 45% on average and as I said, higher in some other places is a great and very strong indicator for what we believe is possible to achieve in the expansion markets where we're building fiber.

Now of course, it takes a bit longer because you have to build the market, sell it, penetrate it over time. But we are highly convinced that our 45% penetration target is achievable across the entirety of our footprint. We've proven it in our core markets. And if we can go further, we will.

Yeah. Hi, Michael. Nick here. Just taking a step back a little bit and thinking about the strategic review more broadly. When the company was emerging from Chapter 11, and we put together the new Board and the new executive team, of course, one of the things we did at that time was a complete strategic review of all the options for the company going forward. And of course, we settled on our new fiber strategy and our ambition to build to at least 10 million fiber passings because we're kind of three years into that, and we've got that 10 million fiber passing kind of goals firmly in our sights.

I think it's entirely appropriate that the Board and the executive team look again at what next for the company. What's the next Frontier of growth and what's the best way to unlock shareholder value in the future. And this is a review, of course, that's something we've been doing continuously really over the last few years. But we think we're at a point in time where it's right to make public that we're looking at all the options again, and that includes an evaluation of our operational and financing strategy whether they are smart strategic partnerships that we should engage with potentially joint ventures, divestitures, mergers and some business combinations may make sense.

But look, that's a review that's in process and our Board is always looking at every possible opportunity to create shareholder value in great detail. And I think when we're ready to share any of that detail, we'll come back and share it with you. But that's something we're looking at right now. So it's live, it's in the moment. And when we're ready to share something, we'll come back and do that with the market. Operator, thank you. Next question?

Yeah. Hi, Frank. It's Nick here. So just on Business and Wholesale, I mean the fact is, we significantly outperformed the industry last year in our Business and Wholesale segment. Our Business and Wholesale revenue was down about 1.5% in 2023 versus the industry, which pretty consistently saw mid- to high-single digit declines. And pretty stably so over previous periods, whereas our trajectory is improving.

The bright spot continues to be our fiber business in Business and Wholesale as in consumer, which in the Business and Wholesale segment grew by 4% in 2023. So whilst Business and Wholesale did decline modestly in the fourth quarter, as we've already said, it is a lumpy business with timing of large contracts and payments and so on. And we expect that segment to return to year-over-year growth in Q1. So, as Scott already shared, we expect fiber growth to roughly offset copper declines in this segment, resulting in a stable performance overall of plus or minus 1% to 2%.
