Nick Dell'Osso
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (CHK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So I want you to think about the production decline that we're seeing today as a function of the base decline, because what we're really doing is we're just stopping turn-in-line wells that we have had in progress. And the reason we're doing that is that we see that the market is oversupplied right now. CapEx reductions that we and anybody else in the industry take on have an impact to production several months out as long as 12 months out. And we need to -- for our business, we believe the right answer is to reduce production today. The market is oversupplied today, the value that you would receive for turn-in-line wells today reflects the fact that the market is oversupplied. And so we think we should hold on to that productive capacity and then turn it in line when there is greater demand and when the market is not oversupplied. This allows us to be responsive quickly. And so that that amount of production that we've quoted is really just to give you a sense of how much productive capacity we would build up to be responsive to the market as the demand is there by the end of this year. We quoted it as a Bcf a day if all of those wells were turned in line in one quarter. Now that's probably not a very realistic answer. We would probably layer those in. We would assume that demand would come back in some measured fashion and therefore, we could return production in a measured fashion. But that would be the aggregate volume that would be sitting and ready to respond.

I think the fact that we feel comfortable pausing -- turn-in lines and slowing completions activity, slowing drilling activity to match that cadence should be considered as we would also be comfortable accelerating those cycle times in the future when needed. Really, all we're doing here is we're extending cycle times of past capital that's been deployed. We would have the flexibility to increase those cycle times in the future if market conditions warranted and deliver more production on a shorter period of time relative to the dollars that we're spending. So we like the flexibility in our business. And then at some point, if the market proved to continue to be undersupplied in the future, you could add capital and grow your productive capacity beyond where we sit today. But this change is really designed to maintain productive capacity in that neighborhood of 3.2 Bcf a day, you should consider maintenance capital of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion around that level of production. All of that remains unchanged for the business that we're presenting to the market today. We're just allowing cycle times to expand out, allowing our base decline to reduce the oversupply that we see today, which would cause us to receive a very low price for our gas. And to hold on to that production for a time when the market needs it better and we can better deliver it where customers need the gas.

I'll start and Josh may have something to add here. But the way we're thinking about this, Charles, is we will be paying very close attention to the underlying fundamentals, the underlying supply and demand situation in the market. And we'll try to bring gas online when we see that there is demand that needs the gas. Today, we are filling storage or not drawing from storage at the levels consistent with the past, which is setting us up to have pretty full storage going into the next storage season next fall. And so we can see very clearly that the market has more supply today than there is demand on an annualized basis. And so we think we should hold back our supply to better meet that demand in the future. We know that demand will grow in the future. We have confidence in that and we believe we should be more efficient with the capital we have spent, the wells that we have in cycle and the wells that we will continue to have in cycle. And so this really is about making sure that we are continuing a business from a capital perspective that is efficient at drilling wells, is efficient at delivering productive capacity, but that we can then have the flexibility to hold that production for the times that it's better needed. I want to reiterate that we are pretty optimistic about the future for gas markets and this allows us to better deliver production when it's needed, where it's needed into those markets as demand is present and ready for it.

Let me start by saying we don't view this change as something that we are attempting to fix the market. We view this as what we think is prudent to manage our assets, our ability to generate cash flow for our shareholders, and that's really how we think about this, one company is not positioned to fix the market. And so we're really thinking just about what makes sense for our company and our shareholders each day. From a hedge perspective, we always separate hedges from the decision to deploy capital. Hedges are really about how you've deployed capital historically, there are financial protection, they're available to you for paper gains and losses. And there's no need to mentally tie hedges to the production that we deliver to market each and every day. So said in another way, because you have hedges should not divorce you from paying attention to supply demand fundamentals that are in front of you and impacting the price you receive for your physical product that you sell every day. And so the decision that we've made today is 100% about having a productive capacity that we have spent money on throughout 2023, looking at the market today, recognizing that the market is pretty clearly telling us that it doesn't need our gas today and knowing that we have the flexibility to hold off on delivering that gas to the market until such time that there is higher demand. So we're happy to do that.

We did run a lot of different scenarios and thought about different changes to the capital program. We certainly thought about reducing the capital program in a more significant manner than we are here today. And what that really results in is bigger changes to 2025 production. And we don't believe that's prudent given the fundamentals that we see today. We expect there to still be a step change in demand in 2025 as incremental LNG capacity comes online, as the market continues to grow for natural gas domestically. We also think the supply dynamics would be better by 2025. Remember that there's a lot of capital cut across the industry last summer. And the results of those capital changes just haven't shown up yet. That's why I referenced in my opening comments that we see the cycle of capital and supply being as long as 12 to 18 months. Think about the fact that this past fall is when we really saw maximum supply to the market, we're really still seeing it today. And the CapEx increases associated with that supply response started in the fall of -- well, really in the summer of 2022 and carried through the beginning of 2023 with the big reductions in capital not occurring until the summer of 2023. So the lag time of CapEx decisions is very long. And what we're really attempting to do is be responsive to the market conditions that we see in front of us today knowing that a capital decision has a much longer time to take effect. So stopping, turn-in-line wells has an immediate impact on the economics that we see for our resource.

Well, just keep in mind that pricing is different in both of the assets. And so certainly today when the market is oversupplied, you're receiving quite a low value for gas and the Marcellus storage is quite full in the Northeast. And so we do see it prudent to reduce turn-in-lines in both basins to what is something pretty close to zero for the rest of the year. Good news is we can change that quickly if the market changes and shows us that the gas is needed and we can change that by region, if there is a shortfall or improved market in the Northeast, we can change that separate and apart from the Haynesville. So we maintain full flexibility but we just see pretty similar market conditions in both places right now.

We're just thinking about Chesapeake here.

Look, we were really comfortable executing our buyback throughout 2024. Obviously, once we got deep into the merger discussions that activity had to pause. We are not able to restart that activity while we have a pending transaction like the merger out there. So in the future, we'll be back to buying back stock when we can and look forward to that day. But I'd just remind you that inclusive of buybacks and dividends in 2023, we had a 8% return to equity, pretty robust, and we felt good about that number. And I guess it's a fair statement to say that if we weren't engaged in those discussions we probably would have continued to buy some stock through the end of the year.

I would add, Doug, we did say in our opening comments that we're continuing to see some good capital efficiencies across the assets. We had record wells drilled in both the Marcellus and Haynesville. We continue to focus on capital efficiencies across our assets and generally, we find that these times when you reduce activity or when you make real progress. And so we're looking forward to 2024 being another very strong year from a capital efficiency standpoint, continuing to improve our pace of drilling, our cost per stage of completions and our overall effectiveness at bringing wells online for the maximum productivity for that given location at the lowest possible cost.

Well, I mean, again, when we think about the decisions we're making for capital allocation for this year, it has nothing to do with our merger. This is just simply looking at the productive capacity we have today, the market conditions we see in front of us, making the best decisions we can make for our shareholders. Now the concept that a company with a very strong balance sheet and a large production base can basically use the turn-in-line cadence available to us much the way that we would use storage if there was more storage available in the market is a strategy that I think could be deployed in the future and we would look forward to considering those opportunities. But our hope is that by the time you get to 2025, you have a step change in demand. We see growing demand for gas. We will be in a position to continue to deliver the most efficient, lowest cost gas we can to the market as quickly as we possibly can to a market that needs it. We think that's the more likely future for us.

No, we're well into the weeds of integration planning at this point. We have a tremendous amount to work on, very busy. We have teams that have been set up and working through how to think about a pro forma organizational structure, all the business processes, all the IT systems, all of the things that you plan for. We will be ready for a quick close. We can continue to work on things from an integration standpoint. If it takes longer, we won't let that distract us or bother us in any way. We're well into the work required for a successful integration.

I'll start and then Mohit may have more to add here. I just would reiterate that as a stand-alone company, we don't have a debt reduction target. And so as we think about our 2024 plan, we're very, very comfortable with all of the decisions we're making and the very strong balance sheet we have, frankly, with and without these decisions being made. That said, pro forma for the close we will be very focused on debt reduction. One of the reasons we find ourselves in the position we're in today, which is to be able to be a very efficient consolidator, in a merger context with Southwestern, to be able to have the capital flexibility we're showing with how we're directing our production cadence this year, all relates to having a very strong balance sheet. It will be a top priority of this company to maintain a strong balance sheet through these cycles. And we see that being absolutely front and center for our strategy and something we expect to deliver on regardless of the market conditions.

I think that's a good safe assumption, Phillips.

We are still really optimistic on the long-term gas market. And that's just based on the underlying view that natural gas is the most efficient answer to energy supply challenges around the world. Those supply challenges come from shortages or limited access to energy broadly, they come from climate concerns, they come from political and stability concerns. And natural gas is really the best answer, especially natural gas in the US is the best answer to all of those challenges. As a result, we think that the administration will ultimately find a very strong answer as they review the need for permitting approvals here. We expect that, that will be seen positively as we see it and we expect this will move on in due time. I think it's unfortunate. I think it's not good for those parts of the economy that need incremental energy and need it as quickly as they can get it. This pause will slow things down a little, which is unfortunate and not great for those that are seeking incremental gas. But we have confidence that the merits of LNG export from the US will be seen by all and that approvals will be taken back up again in the future.

Okay. Thanks, Rocco. Really appreciate everybody's time today. We know that our approach for 2024 is a little bit different than we've been able to do in the past as a company and that we think we've seen from others. We think it very much addresses the challenge that is seen in the market today, which is a near-term oversupply and a long-term very structurally positive natural gas market. We're excited about the position we're in. We look forward to the ultimate aligning of supply and demand in the market and a recovery for natural gas broadly associated with that alignment. And we think we're really well positioned for that. So look forward to continuing to discuss this with all of you. We’ll be out on the road at a number of different conferences and events in the next week to two weeks, and look forward to engaging throughout the year. Thanks very much for your time again today, and we'll talk soon.