Nicole Kivisto
MDU Resources Group, Inc. (MDU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Yes. So I'll start and then ask if Garrett has any color commentary to add. So in terms of the guidance that we're providing on the regulated side, it would include some revenue related to the additional expansion of the data center that was discussed in the script. Is that what your question related to?

Yes. And then I'll turn it over to Rob for pipeline expansion projects and the timing thereof.

I'll let Garrett take that question.

So the punch line is -- yes. Okay, thank you, Senger. I was just going to say the punchline is those elevated costs are going to flow through our FCA tracking mechanisms.

Yes, I'll go ahead and ask Jeff to take that question. Jeff?

Yes. I was just going to reiterate that coming off of multiple record years in a row, even if you look to the midpoint of the guidance that would yield yet another record for CSG. So I think performance has been extremely strong for this team, and they continue to execute, so.

Yes, I'll ask Garret to talk about the regulatory activity currently outstanding and kind of timing there. So go ahead, Garret.

Yes. Thanks for the follow-up on that. We are excited about our Investor Day that was rescheduled to March 13, 2024, the New York Stock Exchange. So just as you mentioned, given some of the strategic changes underway at MDU over the last couple of years, we thought the day would be a great way to provide some updates on our operational strategy and financial plans as we progress and move forward on our strategy to become a pure-play regulated business.

But in addition to that, as you mentioned, we will look to provide some updates regarding CSG's business outlook and progress on the spin-off as well. So in addition, we are celebrating our 100th anniversary in 2024. So we'd look to celebrate that and seems only fitting that as we celebrate the employees that came before us and created the company that we have today that we are moving forward with another transformation that will pave the way for our future. So excited to provide those updates next month.
Yes, absolutely. I'll have Garret talk about a little update there. The punchline is, progress is being made here, and it's within the capital budget that we presented to the -- in the news release. But Garret, go ahead and provide some additional details there.

Yes. I'll go ahead and take that. We'll be monitoring that. There's been kind of some movement back and forth in that. And so more to follow there. We're currently monitoring it and looking for opportunities to the extent they exist, we will make sure that we update you accordingly and nothing to update till then.
Yes, we did update our rate base CAGR guidance to be reflective of the all-in CapEx that we presented here in terms of our 5-year capital plan. So yes, we are stating that today at the 7%, which is an increase from what we were historically indicating.

All right. I would like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us for our year-end 2023 earnings call. I'm extremely proud of the team's performance in 2023, and we are optimistic about our growth opportunities in future regulated delivery projects, excited about the strong demand and performance of our Construction Services business as we look to spend them later this year.

We thank you again and appreciate your continued interest in and support of MDU Resources. And with that, I'll turn the call back to you. Operator?


