Nikesh Arora
Palo Alto Networks, Inc. (PANW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think as I said, and as Dipak elaborated, look, it's -- interest rates are higher. CFOs are scrutinizing deals, which means you have to be better prepared to answer their question and show the business value that you bring to them with your cybersecurity products. We are lucky that we have been focusing on our platform strategy.

So we can usually walk in and say, here, you can consolidate the following five, it doesn't cost you anymore, but you get a better outcome and you get a modernized security infrastructure. So from that perspective, that strategy of ours is resonating. But there is more scrutiny. There are deals that go through multiple levels. There are some that get pushed. There are some that get canceled.

And again, you just have to get more on the top of the funnel. And as Dipak very clearly highlighted that eventually end up and there's a conversation about saying, wait, I used to pay you upfront. And I need to understand the cost of money. And is there a way, either my cost has to be lower from you, so I can sort of account for the cost of money or you've going to allow me to pay you later.

From a deferred plan perspective, those are really the two effects. And I think the biggest -- and if I summarize Q4 for us, great execution. There's a lot of demand out there, and the two things which are -- were different is: one, we saw the hardware cycle start to normalize much faster and, not like we told you so, but we've been very consistent.

I think one of you guys actually was kind enough to cut and paste every time we talked about hardware into their note. We've been very consistent that we think underlying hardware grows at single digits, low single -- low to mid-single digits. So we've seen that main reversion. Other than that, honestly, we've just got to go out there and get more stricter on execution. That's the outcome from a macro perspective.

Rob, I'm going to give you a little macro flavor and then Dipak can jump in as well. Look, on the macro front, the part I'm really excited about that Dipak and his team have basically navigated a significant part of our business into annual billings effectively through these deferred payment plans, right? And we were able to hold our free cash flow in spite of those downward sort of pressure.

And we think we're going to keep absorbing some of that as it goes. In the end, it's an economic argument. It's like there's a cost of money. I can take the money up front and let the customers get a discount, and I can go try and get a return on that cash or I can let them pay when they're ready to pay and I can extract a better economic outcome in that context. And I think it's important to understand, given our portfolio-based approach, our customers -- different products lend themselves to different discussions.

On cloud, we see a lot more of the shorter duration discussions because cloud is more of a consumptive event. On XSIAM, they want longer deals. They don't want even 3-year deals. They only want 5-year deals and they want price locks. So there also is a counter effect they're worried about inflation.

So if you put it all together, as Dipak said, we're very comfortable with the way we've modeled it. There's definitely levers that go in different directions. And our sort of aspiration and desire and hope is that we keep transitioning seamlessly into more and more annual billings over time while being able to hold these metrics and these outcomes for ourselves.

And Dipak?

And don't forget, there's still a reasonable part of our business that still has to be paid upfront, which is the hardware business.

Brad, sort of how I worked in sales and interacted with salespeople, majority of my life, salespeople like to win. And I think what has become apparent in fiscal '23 for our teams that can -- that we can win in each of these categories. They were used to winning in firewalls. I will tell you, our win rates have gone up tremendously in SASE. I mean we did $1 billion in SASE this past year. Winning in XSIAM has been a phenomenal surprise and a delight to all of us.

And literally, I'm telling you what's going to happen on Sunday, every salesperson is going say, I want to be able to sell that product. This product is selling with an average ACV of $1 million hasn't happened in security before. So I think the just generating enthusiasm towards all these capabilities and solutions is kind of a key message for our team. There are some structural changes.

Like last year, we took the SASE team and merged that with the core team, and you saw the outcomes. We managed to do that seamlessly without an impact to our business, in fact grew faster. We're doing that next year with Cortex. We're taking our Cortex team, and making them part of core. That's why Dipak talks about these constant ability to improve operating margins is we've hit sort of scale economics in our business. We've hit scale. Everybody has to do these deals. It's no longer a firewall business. So our teams want to do cross-product deals.

So the message really is, we're winning in major categories, go out and win those deals. The message is cross-platform is working for us. The message is you are now empowered and trained to sell everything. And every year, we use the opportunity to tweak certain things, which have worked better than the others.

So I mean, honestly, like sorry to drag you out on a Friday day afternoon, but I think it's important for a few thousand people next week that we shared all these results with them, and we just got caught in the trap. We're trying to get a Board meeting done and do that on Sunday, so here we are on Friday. But all I -- if it gives you any comfort, Dipak and me and the team are going to be working all Saturday and Sunday as well.

Thank you.

Well, that's a wrap on our Q4 results.

The reason we wanted to make sure you had the opportunity to enjoy our Friday evening celebrations in the context of a long-term or midterm outlook from us was we wanted to make sure that you see our FY '24 guidance in the context of where we believe we are in the next three to five year journey. I think what's important to understand is that over the last five years, the cybersecurity TAM has continued to rise. It has grown at approximately 14%, and it has grown twice the pace at which the IT market has grown.

Now the reasons for that are, as we get down these transformations that are going on in the world, we get more and more reliant on e-commerce, as we get more and more reliant on digital transformation movement is about and possibly now with the sort of arrival of AI as a mainstream opportunity, every one of us is trying to make sure we grab that with both hands. So we will continue to see the pace of technology spend go sort of up or forward.

Similarly, we're going to see that cybersecurity is going to get more than its fair share of growth. So from an opportunity perspective from what's going on in the market, we believe the cybersecurity market is robust and will continue to be so in the next three to five years.

Having said that, if you look deeper, there are actually three things going on in that market: one, there are new markets being created. If you look at the last five years, we saw a sort of a surge in this concept called SASE. We saw SASE come on mainstream. Everybody is out there trying to build a SASE business. That's kind of been a big thing.

As we had anticipated and talked about five years ago, cloud continues to become bigger and bigger. As companies go sign up with cloud service providers, they are beginning to go move their applications from on-prem or their hybrid cloud to the public cloud. Now it's important to understand is that approximately 80% of the applications in the world are actually homegrown applications, which are working on on-prem data centers.

As we go forward, we're seeing enterprises take those applications, reimagine them, rewrite them, rearchitect them and move them to the public cloud. Now that work has to be done by 33 million developers around the world, which work for these companies. As they write new code, as they put together a code by looking at open source and having stuff from here and there, there is this real opportunity to make sure that, that code that is written is written in such a way that is secure, is secured by design. So you will continue to see that cloud security part of that market grow, but that's a market that's effectively been created in the last five years.

Couple that with the arrival of IoT and OT as mainstream opportunities, we've seen even that market has been sort of a new market. Approximately it's a $30 billion market between those categories, which has been built over the last five years, driving some of the cybersecurity opportunity.

Outside of that, in the underlying cybersecurity market, we've also noticed that some markets have undergone to transformation. We're seeing a large transformation in network security as people try and figure out how much to go in the public cloud, how much to leave in the data center, how much hardware to deploy, how much software to deploy.

We're seeing that network security is beginning to evolve from a hardware-only market to effectively a faster-growing software part of the network security market. Not just that, what we're also seeing is things like SD-WAN, which are part of the networking TAM are now moving into cybersecurity because people want an integrated solution as a SASE solution between SD-WAN and your security protocol. So it's interesting. There are markets going -- undergoing inflection like network security. The market of endpoint has gone through a huge inflection in the last five years.

We've seen people go from endpoint protection to EDR and XDR. We've seen an explosion, there are about 14 vendors at last count in the EDR XDR space, but you can see clear leaders emerging, which are down to two or three players in that space. And there's a huge inflection going on there.

We think not just there. You're going to see a large inflection in effectively what is a 15-year-old market called SIEM and SOC. That market has been -- a technology that has not been evolved for the last 15 years. It's primarily been a reactive technology where if I am breached, I need to figure out what to do, and we collect a lot of data and analyze it. That's no longer going to work, the arrival of AI, they have the need for automation, the need for normalized data, actually going to force that market to inflect. And that's something we'll talk about more.

And you saw already in our Q4 results at something like XSIAM, which is targeted to that market, is where the real opportunity is for that inflection to continue, for that market to go through its own transformation. Outside of that, there are still about $30-plus billion in sort of steady cybersecurity segments as well as about $80 million of services, which we think will also continue to evolve in the next three to five years.

So with that in mind, I think it's important to think about where we were when we thought about the transformation of Palo Alto Networks five years ago, where we said, cloud is going to be big, AI is going to be big, and the networks are going to have to start getting reimagined as we go towards the cloud.

So effectively, cloud was going to drive the cloud security market and the network transformation and AI and machine learning would have to start helping us do this transformation in the SIEM and SOC market. Now what we saw over the last three to five years is, we at Palo Alto Networks as well as, to some degree, different plays in the industry, started to look at the various parts of these markets and say, like, these things need to start getting integrated because you can't deliver great security outcomes without these things getting integrated. So this is the thing. We talked about this.

We were told that market does not need platforms. We were told that integration is not key. Customers can deal with the integration. What we want is best-of-breed products. So we decided we're going to do both. We're going to have phenomenal success in best-of-breed categories.

In addition, we're going to make sure our best-of-breed products were integrated. So in these three TAMs, in these three markets of network, cloud and SOC operation, what happened is we saw these point products, we started to get integrated into the larger platform vision we had, and we saw the TAM continue to grow because these are all markets which are undergoing transformation or rapid growth.

Now where we are today, we believe this is about a $100 billion opportunity across these three platforms. So for us, the opportunity has grown. It's almost gone up 2x from five years ago where we believe it's a $100 billion market today, which allows us to deliver the superior growth you've seen and the continued consolidation in the market that we've had at Palo Alto Networks. What's even more exciting within these markets will continue to drive future growth. And you will see that because of the arrival of AI, the need for more real-time autonomous security, these markets will continue to drive opportunity.

In the same period over the last five years, as I said, we have been able to transform Palo Alto Networks to get it to where it is today. A, we actually proved that platforms are relevant and important in the space of cybersecurity. Just imagine, it seems obvious now, possibly to many of us, but five years ago, we had customers who had more cybersecurity vendors than they had IT vendors. And it was a customer's responsibility to take these vendors, deploy them across their infrastructure, make them work together to deliver security outcomes.

You're expecting 2,000 customers out there in the Global 2000 or possibly tens of thousands of customers having security experts trying to stitch together products made by fast growth cybersecurity companies, which are deeply technical and trying to figure out how to correlate what one vendor saw or one set of vendors is telling you versus another. It just seemed like a problem that could not be solved. But over the last five years, you've seen that starting to stitch these together, starting to take this disparate solutions for security, trying to provide them in a common fabric has actually allowed us to deliver better security outcomes

And we've proven that by doing that in a way, they are -- each of those pieces work in a best-of-breed fashion are leading in their own category. However, they're kind of better together in the platform. So the last three years -- the last five years, as we just shared in our Q4 results, we have been able to build a $1 billion business in security operations under Cortex, which was 0.

We have been able to build a $1 billion SASE business in the last 12 months to be able to show that integration across this remote and hybrid network space is actually working. Not only that, we actually built a $500 million ARR cloud security business, proving that, again, the ability to stitch across the entire cloud development life cycle is useful for our customers.

So we think that we've established that these platforms are going to be around are important and necessary, and that is the way of doing security in the future. Not only that, we've also proven that in the last five years that you can teach an old dog new tricks. Palo Alto Networks, which was a single product in one lane, we had the best firewall technology in the world as well as had amazing services that worked in the firewall, we have been able to take that and build multiple products across multiple security swim lanes and make them work better together. And the only way you can do that in security is you have to keep driving innovation.

You have to stay at the bleeding edge because you don't need your customers to be at the bleeding edge. It is our responsibility as a security company to make sure we take all the innovation, we distill it, we make it work in an integrated fashion and deliver it to our customers at the fastest pace possible because the bad actors are not waiting, they're constantly looking for ways to get to our customers, to get to penetrate their infrastructure and try and figure out how to go extract data from our customers or possibly hold them with ransomware. So we have taken what was an amazing company in one category and actually built what we'd like to say is an innovation engine that allows us to stay at the bleeding edge.

We've also done that, to be honest, not just by doing it ourselves because the fact that the cybersecurity industry has 3,000 startups out there, which are constantly funded because they're all working in a specialist way to solve more problems, which they believe is important for the end customer, we have to be vigilant and make sure that we don't have any issues in either building it for our customers or partnering or acquiring something that's out there that is important as part of the security fabric that we need to deliver to our customers.

So as a team, we're really excited that where we are in our sort of juncture today allows us to go forward and build an even better, larger and a more compelling business for our shareholders. Not only that, to deliver phenomenal security outcomes for our customers across all these categories that we see inflecting as well as categories that we believe will be created in the next three to five years.

So with that in mind, if you think about what's our view going forward for the next three to five years or possibly the next decade, I said in the last five years, we saw that huge sort of technology trends, underlying it of cloud and AI allowed us to create the stitching to build what I would say, the building blocks of building the world's largest cybersecurity company actually prepares us phenomenally well for what we think lies ahead.

What we think lies ahead is the need for security to stop bad actors mid-flight, real-time, as it's happening. If you think about security today, the industry is only 30% or 40% real time. You know a bad URL, you know a bad DNS. You know how to stop your customers from something that is bad that we know.

What we still aren't good at as an industry is being able to figure out unknowns and stop them before they happen. To do that, it requires a fundamentally different way of thinking about security. Something we have been sort of leading having a point of view on. And that is the idea of having stitched products that work from end to end.

The idea that as something is happening, you're able to analyze it real time, on the fly and understand it's good or bad. It is reducing the noise of security in the industry by eliminating all these super close alerts or the bad signal to noise ratio. So to get that right or to get security right, we will have to be more and more real time as an industry. Now we sit at a point where everybody is talking about AI. And actually, that is the solution. The solution is to make sure you ingest large amounts of data, you analyze them on the fly, and you're able to deliver superior security. Something we talked about just in our Q4 earnings call, right before this, you saw that everything we're doing in XSIAM is driving us to that vision. But that's not enough.

We have to make sure every platform that we have continues to grow and continues to get more and more ubiquitous with our customers, at the same time, also stitches these things together. So we believe in the next five to 10 years, we're going to see this shift, which is going to be palpable. It is going to be big. It's going to be understandable where we have to become more and more real time.

It will no longer be about putting a bunch of sensors and thinking about hygiene and security policies. It will be about how do you stop a bad act. And we'll talk more about this because today, the mean time to fix a bad act as we've talked to you about in our earnings is four to six days. That's not acceptable. This thing will have to go down to minutes and near real time.

So that's a big shift we see that's going to drive a lot of the innovation in our industry. That's going to drive a lot of our strategy and our vision because we think we're on our way to be able to deliver that future to our customers as the world's largest cybersecurity company. In that context, we talked about those three categories. We think those three categories are going to continue to become bigger.

And if you look at it, the biggest opportunity is that big green circle of security operations and automation because we think the current paradigm is broken. The current paradigm is a reactive security paradigm. It's the paradigm we say, let's hire three more million people to solve security problems.

No, I don't think that's going to solve the problem. What's going to solve the problem is, let's collect good data, let's analyze good data. Let's find out the anomalous behavior. Let's block it while it's happening, so our customers have a better security outcome. I think that's where we're going to be going.

And we're going to have a phenomenal opportunity at Palo Alto Networks to go ahead and address a $200 billion market, which is primarily going to be a software-based market, which has its own benefits across the board because it's a lower cost of ownership for our customers, lower cost of integration for our customers. It's easy for us to go deploy and keep our customers all at -- what is the best and current best in -- sort of best-in-class capability.

So a future that is driven by software capability, a future that's driven by software solutions with security and a future which has integration as part of so -- as part of it as a key tenet with the objective of delivering a real-time autonomous security outcome. So that's where we think the world is going, that's where we'd like to be, and we think we're best positioned in the industry to be able to deliver that future. Not only that, to deliver great security outcomes to our customers.

So with that in mind, how are we going to do this? What are we doing in the next three years, how is that going to translate into numbers that are loved by our shareholders? So it's really the five things, part of it is something which we've been doing and some things we're going to have to keep pivoting harder.

For example, one, we want to maintain this notion of being an evergreen innovation company. Our biggest insight is that if you want to lead in cybersecurity, you always have to be on the bleeding edge because the bad actors are. You always have to be scanning the market understanding, where the world is going, where technology is going to see what potential security risks are going to get created in the adoption of that technology, in the deployment of that technology to make sure we're ahead of the curve, and we start delivering security by design.

As in we're not going to come in and try and bolt it on afterwards as our customers have been through the transformation, it's to work with them, embed our architectures with customers as they go through their innovation journey, we're in lockstep with them delivering security innovation.

I think the second part, which we talked about is we want to make sure that our platforms, which are now deployed in sort of different stages or different amount of sort of capacity with our customers, they become ubiquitous. We want to make sure that our customers have wall-to-wall platforms that allow them to look at it as a data problem, as an AI problem, not have to stitch our platform with five other security solutions out there and trying to build their own outcomes because it's impossible for every customer to go to a secure integration by themselves.

I think the way -- the best analogy I can come up with, I think in the next decade, we will see sort of a standard platform for security out there, just the way we've seen platforms in CRM or we've seen platforms in HR, as you've seen platforms and financial sort of software. We think it's time that in the next decade, we will see a security platform in our future, which just works for our customers, and the customers are not spending time integrating multiple vendors trying to stitch their own. I just think that's the only way we're going to get to the future that we need for real-time and AI-based security.

Third, the topic du jour, everybody is talking about AI. We're talking about AI. We are not only talking about it, we will demonstrate that we can deliver security outcomes and the vision and the future that security needs using AI across Palo Alto Networks, and we'll talk more about that. Well, that's great. We can build amazing products, but also as a company, for our shareholders, we have to make sure that we can deliver all this innovation to our customers, both effectively; and two, we have to make sure that it's easy to consume and deploy for our customers.

And we're going to have to make changes as we go forward on how we actually go deliver all the wonderful capability to all of our customers, not just by ourselves, but actually working together with some of the bleeding edge partners in the world who are in this journey. Our partners are delivering these great security outcomes for our customers. And last but not the least, and one of the key things is we cannot do this unless and until our employees are fully bought into our strategy, our vision, feel excited every day to come to work and deliver a better security outcome to our customers to make them secure and be their cybersecurity partner choice.

So with that, let's take a quick look into each of these categories to see how we're going to get there. And it sort of boils down to these five key strategic sort of requirements and directions from our perspective, innovation, continued platformization, leveraging AI, continue to transform our go-to-market capabilities. And last but not the least, again, is to make sure our team is along with us every step of the way.

So getting into the topic of innovation. I think I'm very proud of the track record we have so far. We've gone from 13 products/acquisitions that we've integrated in 2019, to delivering 74 in 2023. It sounds like a lot, but actually, these 74 are delivered in an integrated fashion. So it actually improves the efficiency of security for our customer. It actually makes usability better. It actually makes it much easier for us to deliver security outcomes. So really excited about that.

I think this whole AI revolution that we're undergoing or we're looking at, witnessing, it's going to require us to keep investing, looking once again as to what capability AI is going to deliver across all of our products because we do collect the world's most amount of security data. So we will keep driving innovation by underpinning more and more machine learning and AI under our platforms. We'll keep looking at how to deliver more capability with the sensors that we have out there with our customers from an innovation perspective. We've talked about this.

We are happy to make sure that we deliver innovation and security outcomes to our customers. It does not all have to be invented in Palo Alto. We will constantly keep scanning the market to make sure that there's something out there that our customers need to get and somebody else is doing really well. It's our job to make sure we partner, collaborate, integrate or acquire to deliver the outcome that the customer needs from an innovation perspective.

And last but not the least, being at the bleeding edge of security. Being one of the largest players, it is our responsibility to make sure we're looking at all new technologies to see how they're going to impact our customers and their states, whether it's quantum, whether it's AI because there is a dark side to AI.

It's our job working with our partners and the industry to make sure we deliver innovation in how to protect against AI getting abused or misused in the market. So I strongly believe for us to deliver on the next three to five vision of Palo Alto Networks, we are going to have to continue to be an evergreen innovation company, which I think will give this company longevity and sustainability forever in the future and being the leader in cybersecurity. We talked about platformization or you've heard that word, you will keep hearing it to the next sort of 45 minutes from our team because we believe that's the way to deliver security, is resonating with our customers. Our customers are seeing it.

My team is going to show you some amazing UI. I think you're going to start seeing not only just we're talking about this sort of the next level of platformization. You will start seeing, right after me, how we actually bring it to life. So I cannot be more excited about some of the work we're doing on the product side, stuff that we haven't shown anybody yet. You are going to see it today because it's important for us not just to talk about it, be able to show you how we're going to deliver.

So you will see a next level of integration and how we can deliver security outcomes. You'll see sneak peeks into how we're going to leverage AI copilots in each of our products to create the simplicity and usability that security has not had, to be honest, so far. So I couldn't be more excited about how our teams are going to keep driving more and more platformization, more and more integration, where things of integrating best-of-breed vendors as sort of DIY or do it yourself or do it home is going to be a thing of the past.

So moving on to leveraging AI, I talked about this. But again, clearly, there's no Analyst Day out there today that you cannot -- you must talk about AI. So I think the reason is different for us. As a security company, we are always focused on figuring out how to leverage data. We have north of 100 machine learning models that run today at Palo Alto Networks across our products.

So this is not new news. But the way I think about it is, let's call all of that precision AI. That's AI where I cannot afford for it to be wrong. If it's wrong, lives matter. If it's wrong, ransomware happens, if it's wrong, bad actors get in. So we have to be right 100% of the time. And to me, that's the definition of precision AI.

And to deliver that future, we have to build a lot of our own models. We have to train them. We have to collect first-party data. We have to understand the data. Today, we collect approximately 5 petabytes of data. Yes, 5 petabytes of data on behalf of our customers and analyze it for them to make sure we can separate signal from noise and take that signal and go create security outcomes for our customers.

We still have 1.5 million net new attacks every day across our 60,000 customers. So we know how to use AI, and we believe we are uniquely positioned in the industry given our presence in end points, our presence in firewalls, our presence in the cloud, our presence across the entire network security stack to be able to deliver those AI-based outcomes to our customers.

And we're doubling down, we're quadrupling down to make sure that Precision AI is deployed across every product in Palo Alto, and we open up the floodgates of collecting good data with our customers for them to give them better security because we think that is the way we're going to solve this problem, to get to real-time security. But let's not underestimate the opportunity generative AI puts in front of us.

On a very personal basis, I believe generative AI is amazing for data summarization, for natural language interaction, for doing all the things where there was an information decay between our products and our customers. We build great products.

By the time they get to our customers, there's a lot of translation that happens between our product developers and the customer and sometimes the breaches happen because the customers don't fully understand our product because they cannot configure them right. All those things can be eliminated if we can implement generative AI effectively through our products.

So our customers can interact with our products in natural language. They don't have to have complex security understanding to operate our products. They don't have to have complex security understanding to fix a problem. We can fix all of that if we, in our company, learn how to deliver generative AI-based interfaces, generative AI-based outcomes through our products.

And you know what, our teams are going to show you a glimpse of that. We have been working diligently over the last five months across the board at Palo Alto Networks. And I couldn't be more excited about some of the stuff that you're going to see just after this from our product teams to give you a sneak peek.

At the same time, we're going to do it in a deliberate fashion. We're going to crawl, walk, run. We think we are on the right path. We're going to work in lockstep with the industry. We have people analyzing and working with almost everybody out there. We understand where the best-in-class LLM activity is. We understand where technology is.

We also understand what might be going in the next three to six months. So all I can say is that I think the combination of precision AI and generative AI is going to fundamentally change the way security outcomes are delivered to our customers because it will take away the complexity. It will take away the confusion, the sort of usability problems that you have with security, and it will start helping deliver great outcomes to our customers. I think it's just going to make our platforms amazing as we go forward.

On the go-to-market side. In the last five years, we have done a phenomenal job, I think, of building the products that our customers need. Yet, we have to make sure that every customer understands our capability.

Every customer has a road map with us where we can take them to deliver real-time security outcomes. For that, we need to skill -- upskill our team in some areas, which we have been doing very effectively. As you saw, our team was able to deliver some amazing results for Q4, and I think we're going to keep doing that. We are going to go from being just a security vendor to being a solution partner. For that, we have to work harder with many players out there, which is something we've geared up to do, and we're having some amazing early success. We've got to figure out how to institutionalize that capability at Palo Alto Networks.

And that's one thing BJ and his team are going to focus very effectively on in the next three to five years. Not just that, as I said, we need to figure out how to deliver architectural outcomes to our customers. Our customers are tired of spending too much money in cybersecurity and ending up with the same mess and saying, wait, my security outcomes aren't getting much better, but I seem to be spending more money. It's important for us to work with every one of them to deliver those capabilities in a architectural way so they understand the long-term road map because I think it's fair to say that where we are today is not where we were five years ago.

I think we have enough confidence in our customers to partner with us for the long term because they believe we're going to be around or we're going to be an evergreen cybersecurity company. And last but not the least, I think it's very important as part of our go-to-market efforts, we have a large team that delivers customer delight.

Well, I just think we're about to see a step change in customer delight with the application of generative AI. Again, we've been working really hard. You'll see a bit of a glimpse of that in some of the things that teams are going to show you. And over the next possibly three, six, nine months, you will see more and more capability delivered to our customers using that generative AI framework or predictive AI or precision AI framework.

I think in the next three to five years, that is going to fundamentally change what Palo Alto is able to do out there in the market. And as I said, we cannot do this without the best people. Our employer brand has become phenomenal in the last five years. As we continue to deliver great innovation, great outcomes, people want to come work at Palo Alto Networks. People want to be part of the success of being the cybersecurity partner of choice for our customers. So we can only do this, we can only deliver our strategy if we have the best team. We continue to track the best, we continue to empower them. We continue to make sure that they can deliver great outcomes for our customers.

We plan to keep doing that over the next three to five years because we believe this is a mission-driven opportunity. It's an opportunity that allows us to make the world a better place by making sure that our customers can be secure.

So as I said, you will notice in the next three to five years, we will continue to transform Palo Alto Networks from where we are to where we would like to be. We will continue to focus on the demand function at the top. We believe the market is continuing to inflect, as I said, in the area of security operations. It's highly likely that some of the other steady areas are going to see some inflection as well.

We're going to continue to relentlessly innovate and keep making our platforms more ubiquitous. We're going to make sure that we can deliver the amplification from our go-to-market teams. And also, we're going to make sure that we have the best team in the industry to deliver solutions to our customers.

I couldn't be more excited about the prospects of Palo Alto Network. I couldn't be more excited that we are seeing tremendous success in our software-driven capabilities. I think we are going to continue to be able to transform this company from where we started as a hardware vendor to a software-delivered security with real-time security outcomes. I believe we will continue to be the best cybersecurity partner of choice for our customers.

With that, I'm going to hand over to Lee because he's going to show you some really cool stuff, which is hopefully going to excite you about our ability to deliver the future we've talked about.

Hi. Yes. Thank you very much for your question. Like, it's early days in AI, as I mentioned on the precision AI side, we have been using it. We have been using it across our products. There's no incremental costs. So it's embedded in our current product development capabilities. On the generative AI side, I say you saw a sneak peek of all the copilots.

The good news is all of those things, should generate positive outcomes for us either in terms of incremental modules that customers would like to buy, to enable certain functionality, or possibly reduce costs from our capabilities, to deliver much superior customer support. So, I think at this point in time, I would not in baking any incremental sort of spend expectations in our forecast, as it relates to the implementation of AI.

Dipak has given you guidance that we can continue to see operating leverage, and operating margin, clearly some of that is driven by expectations in AI, but I'd say we're being normal about it. We're not overtly aggressive nor are we overtly conservative around it. And hopefully, there'll be upside in that, if and when we start to see the fruits of deploying it effectively across Palo Alto Networks.

It's important to understand. We didn't say it will drop 10% of revenue. Everything else is growing really fast. I think it's important to understand, like, it's not growing as fast as everything else. Look, for the last five years, I've always been asked that hardware question. I've been trying to avoid it for five years unsuccessfully. So thanks again, Andrew, only took one question to get to it.

I think it's important to understand, as we started moving to the cloud, people started coming to notion of software firewalls. And then with this whole pandemic thing, remote work, and sort of distributed network became a real thing. So what you're seeing is, that there are different form factors, which are really good in different circumstances.

Against the public cloud, you put a software firewall, you use VMs in various scenarios, when throughput becomes really important hardware is still the best option. And I don't think the whole world is going to end up only in the public cloud. By the way, we also sell firewalls to the cloud provider believe it or not, they need firewalls in their data centers, because eventually the public cloud also runs in our data center.

So, I think in that context, the demand for hardware is not going to go away. I think what Anand showed you beautifully that you're going to end up with all the form factors at most of our customers. And the key is these things need to work better together. I think if you go today, there are many customers who have a Palo Alto firewall and a firewall from another vendor. Now if we can give them SASE, we can give them software firewalls.

There is no reason that they should be on two hardware vendors when they are a single software vendor, and a single SASE vendor. So, I think the point we want to highlight here is, there is a further consolidation opportunity in the firewall space driven by the Zero Trust needs as well as the UI that Anand gave you a sneak peek into. So, I think that's the way to think about it. We like hardware. It's great.

We have 5,500 dialed in, Brian. That makes up, like, the last six earnings calls we've had. So I don't know maybe there's bear here.

Yes. Let me tell you. I think that we've all heard of this concept called hallucination or the idea that it doesn't give you the perfect answer all the time, right.

And I'd say we are working really hard to see how do, we reduce the error rate in the answers that the copilot comes up with, because in security, we can't afford wrong answers. So, I think our teams are working really hard. What we've discovered in the process, is that irrespective of which LLM you deploy, you need better knowledge articles, you need better integration of the UI. So our teams are busy doing a lot of non-regrettable work.

And you saw them give you some sort of glimpses into what the art of the possible could be. I would say sometime before the end of the year, we will start testing it with a bunch of customers to get real feedback from customers, I think the best way to think about it is, like, the examples you saw, it's like security is complicated. UI and security is also complicated. If you don't know where to look, sometimes it's right there. You just don't know where to look.

If you can ask that question, and give you the answer that improves the productivity of all of our customers. It, improves the configuration capability of all of our customers. It improves our ability to provide real time customer support to our customer setting. There's lots of advantages if done, right? And I say it's always like, people often, overestimate the short-term and underestimate the long-term.

That's why we give you a three-year forecast. I think it may, we may get the three-month or six-month wrong, or we'll not get the three or five-year wrong. Three to five years from now, the world will be different. UI will be 50% natural language. We'll be generating tons of efficiency from people using AI driven tools. I think that's the opportunity. And you don't get there if you don't work hard now.

So, Jonathan, I think, you saw, I think Dipak, Lee, myself, all of us have made this point, so did BJ around the fact that without innovation, we're out we're out of the game. We launched 74 different capabilities last year. And so, we'll probably do more next year than 74. But I think what's interesting, what you're seeing is these 74, many of these are existing point products in the industry, which we're re-launching by adapting them to our platforms.

And the reason it's going to work this time, Jonathan, because it's working. Well, one of the deals we talked about, the SASE deal with a large professional services organization, we consolidated seven vendors, right? Our XSIAM deals, which totaled $200 million consolidate on average three to seven vendors in the SOC. So it's working. Now the question is, I'm already in the SOC. I've consolidated seven. I go to my customers running to them and saying, listen.

You got these other five things hanging around. Look, I've got these five new modules in XSIAM. Why do you want to do five new vendors, and solutions which don't talk to each other, right? So I think what we have in opportunities, once it's kind of like, I think you like to call it land and expand. I think we're landing with our platforms. We used to land with SASE. We used to land with firewalls. Now we're going to say, listen. You have a hardware file. You have our SASE it looks beautiful UI.

It brings it altogether when you clean up the rest of the infrastructure. I think it's an evolution in the industry. I think, five years ago as an idea, we're seeing it actually happen. You're seeing us put distance between ourselves and single product vendors in many categories, because people are seeing the power of the platform. That's just the opportunity. And that's something BJ, Lee, Dipak, me and the gang have to execute on, and it's just relentless execution that's needed.

Look, the whole idea originally was to have sales specialists because we were in the early stages of our products. We're trying to build them out. We had lots of changes. We want to make sure they were trained and available as extra resources. Now think about it, we did a $44 million XSIAM deal. Everybody was involved. The core rep wasn't going to let that deal go. That's a lot of money of commission for the core rep if he or she can understand XSIAM.

So I'll tell you, BJ and I are going to have this wonderful sales conference starting Sunday. I promise you, every one of those guys will be lined up for the XSIAM session, because they want to learn more about it because, see, this deal size, deal size is equal to dollars for the company equal dollars for the salesperson. And they're all very smart people. So, they're going to go gravitate towards where the real business is.

So, I think when you can get salespeople to lean in to learn something, it creates a great outcome. And also, guess what, I mean it's not like people suddenly woke up yesterday and became Cortex specialist. They used to sell cybersecurity before. They just did a good job of embracing and getting trained. So our products are at a point where we believe they are mature. We understand the differentiation of the market.

There is reputation out there in the market. We have people in the back who can stand up POCs. I think we can do this. I think we showed that with SASE we can do this, and we can do this with Cortex. The cloud thing is slightly different. Cloud is still early in the customer and from an adoption perspective. It's a consumptive model.

It's an ACV ARR model. So that it lends itself to a slightly different sales motion and there, we're not going to be in a hurry to merge that. But I think from a Cortex perspective, it's not just merging the team. It's opening up the floodgates for 3,000 people to sell it. That's the way we think about it.

I think, Michael, one of the things that, I think, we should tell you is that we're in the process of reexamining how to classify the revenue to make it much more easier for you guys to think about it, because product was the artifact of hardware. It comes from - in 1919 or 1930.

SEC - 1970, thank you, FASB requirement that has to be physically tangible. And I think with the emergence of SaaS companies, it's become sort of hard to do that. So, I think we're going to take a look at that, and I didn't want to do it on a Friday night, and to add one more exciting thing you guys have to think about. So as the year progresses, we'll find a better way of letting you think about our revenue, which is more measurable, more trackable and possibly more predictable for you guys.

But yes, this is like a product we don’t have to tell you the percent of product that's not hardware every time to tell you how to split that between hardware and software. I think it suffice us to say, we're looking at it as a business across the board. We look at RPO, we look at revenue, obviously. We look at margin. We look at free cash flow, which our numbers we're guiding to. And that's what we manage on a sort of day-to-day basis to run the business.

I was hoping one of you guys was going to show up with a glass of wine, at least, but...

All right. That's good.

Let me start with the second question first. If you don't think we've transformed the company in the last five years, I don't know, man. I don't know what else to do to make you happy, okay? I'm sorry. It's Friday night, I'm going home. So I think we've been doing transformative for the last five years, and what we've shown you is transformative in itself. And I'm just, in part, just - I don't - look, you don't need me to buy businesses for you.

You guys, you're shareholders, you're smart, you can do it yourself. Unless there's a huge leverage that we can prove that something we can take 1 plus 1 and make that two, possibly 2.5 for you guys, it's not sensible for us to do it. And so far, we looked at everything in the world. We look at everything every day. We see what - how things operate. So far, we haven't felt compelled because we have a lot of work to do ourselves.

I mean if we've been busy integrating a transformative acquisition, we'll miss the next 5 trends because we're busy. So that's how we think about it. It gives you some insight on how we think about it. As it relates to tuck-in acquisitions, I think the better way to see if it goes back to what I said. Look, there are technologies out there that other people are working on. But we are not the only security company in the world.

We're not working on everything. And if something becomes relevant, something becomes an important feature that we think is needed by our customers, and we haven't been working on it, it behooves us to go out and partner or acquire, which is what I said. So should you expect us to maintain a rhythm around how we acquire companies? Yes. But you should understand, we have a five-year track record of doing that responsibility, doing it judiciously, doing it in a way that we integrate the acquisition, doing it in a way that would generate more ARR.

And pretty much most of the ones we bought in the last five years have really not contributed on day 1 to the ARR or revenue because they've been mostly tech acquisitions. So I think that's the way to think about it, if that helps.

Tal, you get the question of the evening award. In the last 5 years, we went out and we used our various products to do the land. We sold SASE where it was needed. We sold hardware firewalls where it's needed. We sold software firewalls where it was needed. 1,700 of our customers in some way, shape or form, have all of these things. I think the next step in our evolution is going back to them and saying, listen, you have the hardware firewalls.

It works way better with SASE. You want to integrate this across as a network security platform? That's where we have to show value. And you started to see glimpses of that what I ensure you. Cloud XDR is a combination of endpoint and firewall data. That has been now expanded to all the data that you have in XSIAM across your entire state. So now you're - we're offering capabilities that Splunk has.

We're offering capability that QRadar has, we're offering capability that Chronicle and Sentinel have in XSIAM, right? So we're doing that. To your question, you should expect us to say, listen, you have XSIAM, if you had Prisma Cloud, it will work a lot better. If you have the XDR, the Prisma Cloud host protection and XDR host protection should work a lot better. So you'll start to see us selectively start to create -- demonstrate value across our platforms.

So it's a great question, I think. But it needs to -- customers need to be evolved to that because everybody has a bunch of products out there and not everybody is lined up with the same day for end of life. So I think you're right, you could see more of that from us in the next 3 to 5 years.

So first of all, Joe, you did a great job on CNBC today navigating the questions about our stock. So thank you very much. On your question, look, we have conviction in some of the platforms, like let's start with our favorite one today. It's like XSIAM came out of left field. It did $200 million for us. Even we - would have been happy at $100 million for our fiscal year. It came in at $200 million.

So part of what you're seeing is that there are some products where we have tailwinds. And I think the part we're sort of normalizing for is the - not normalizing for, the part we sort of we said to you, the part that we're careful about is the hardware normalization, which we've been anticipating. We're always positively surprised every quarter, and it finally came home in spades in Q4.

So I think the forecast we have is what we represent to our Board. That's what we're saying we're going to go do. That's what we're telling you. Now are we going to try and work hard to go beat it? Yes, of course, that's what we do every time. There's lots of puts and takes. So based on the puts and takes, based on where we are in different products based on what plans we have to launch different things, this is our best estimate as of now. And we're trying to give it our best to go out and deliver it.

I think that's the best way to describe how you think about our numbers. Yes, of course, it's hardware headwinds. There's SASE tailwinds. I don't know if you saw, we became the only vendor in SASE far right in a single vendor, sort of SD-WAN plus SSE. So there's some good tailwinds we have. Customers pay attention to these kinds of things.

Thank you, Walter. I just want to take the opportunity one more time to thank all of you. I know this was a unique one. Will you be telling your future mentees that you're going to mentor in the analyst community, maybe talking about that one Friday afternoon call which Palo Alto hosted out of their sort of misdirected sense of trying to get you guys to go do this over the weekend for us. So, we really appreciate taking the time.

We apologize for taking up some of your Friday. We will be available tomorrow and day after for some of you who've been kind enough to schedule time to talk to us because we want to make sure you get all your questions answered. It would be remiss of me not to both acknowledge and thank our employees, which is what makes all of this happen, and all of our partners out there who help us deliver this capability.

And of course, I also want to thank my entire management team for delivering a really, really good FY '23 and what has been a yet another sort of different year. And I don't think I've had a normal year in the last five years between the pandemic and supply chain and inflation and money and this. So I look forward to possibly a normal year next year. And again, once again, thank you very, very much for all your support and your indulgence.