Norman Schwartz
Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. (BIO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. I think it really has the most to do with the sales volumes. We get a lot of leverage from the sales and I think we should see the margins ramp with sales.

Yeah. We’re really making good progress and candidly we’re hoping to have a new CFO on Board by the next earnings call.

Yeah. Yeah. I’d say, near-term, it’s -- it seems to be a kind of a tough market, not many signs of immediate recovery and a little bit of uncertainty I think as to when we will see that. I think that the good old days of double-digit growth in China are, I don’t see that in the foreseeable future.

For a life science business, I think we’ve seen the impact of -- combined impact of the in China for China, anti-corruption, and in general, a kind of a tough funding environment affecting the business.

For Diagnostics, I think, they -- we’re continuing to see steady growth, but we do continually also continue to kind of carefully monitor the situation with these value-based pricing tenders, wondering if that may spread to some of our platforms or some of our more specialty products from the kind of higher volume products that have seen that in the short-term.

Yeah. They did cut the dividend. We baked that into our guidance and it’s understandable given the kind of cash constraints that they have.

Yeah. It’s a really good question. Normally it’s something like, kind of more like 49-51 when we think of a normal year and I think we’re going to see a much wider spread than that for 2024. I think it’s anybody’s guess exactly what it’s going to be, but I think, we’ll see a kind of a bigger delta between the first half and the second half.

Yes.

Yeah. We certainly, as we mentioned, we’ve got still several $100 million authorized by the Board and we’ll continue to be opportunistic with share repurchases, but we still have a focus to kind of continue to look for kind of good complementary business opportunities to tuck-ins, things that are complementary to the business. Probably no change in our thinking around acquisitions, so it’s a kind of a two-pronged approach. Could be buybacks, could be some tuck-in acquisitions.

Combination of both.