Octavio Marquez
Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated (DBD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Matt.

So let me start with product. So we continue to see very, very strong demand for both our DN Series recyclers, our DN Series self-checkout solutions. So we're – I think that that's the good news. Technology is being adopted by customers, customers like the product set and they continue investing in it. You're right, there's a certain level of seasonality in our business. So you might see slight variations in our gross margin quarter-over-quarter. But I would tell you that our intention is to keep the trend that we've been on, which is continue improving our overall gross margins.

Even though we made significant progress in our supply chain and our efficiency, we're just at the beginning of our journey. I'm super excited as we announced a few weeks ago, we've hired a new operating excellence leader for the company, Frank Baur, who will help us in this journey and continue accelerating the improvement in all our operations, and that leads me to service.

Our service business, and this is very important to me is a people-driven business. So we need to make sure that we're delivering the highest quality for our customers and that we're creating an environment where all our people can thrive and be successful. So in Q4 and as we manage the portfolio of hardware, software, services creating the solutions that we have, we've invested heavily in our service infrastructure, particularly in North America. So we're battling some of the secular trends around the difficulty of hiring people, the difficulty of retaining people.

But in this balance, we want to make sure that as we're battling those things, we're keeping the customer at the center of our actions and making sure we delivered excellent service to them. So our goal is we will continue working on improving our service margins. It's clearly an area of opportunity for the company. We're all aware of it. And we want to do that while we continue to improve our service. So our commitment for the year is to getting back to our historical service margin levels as the year progresses, but doing that in a way that we continue serving our customers with excellence.

So let me start with self-checkout this time as retail is a very important business for us. So Matt, I think, there is no doubt that consumer preferences keep shifting and the ability to offer options that self-checkout, whether its assisted self-checkout, self-checkout continues to be important. And there's, as I mentioned, new technologies that we keep adding to the self-checkout process to make that a frictionless thing both for our retailers and for the consumers of our retailers, so really changing the way people shop and the experience at the self-checkout. So we can – we see this market to be one of continuous growth. There is no – whether it's labor, whether it's customer experience, self-checkout helps improve that. So we continue to see that market as growing at a very healthy clip. Remember, we've been traditionally a small provider, even though now we've gained significant share or at least that's what we believe will happen when the analyst’s report these things.

Remember, or as I mentioned in our remarks, every self-checkout that we deploy is basically a new placement for us, or has been for the past year. So we're growing and gaining that market and we see that market as continuing to expand. On the banking side, and again, that's why I tried – I know you like this question around the markets. That's why I tried to add to the regional color now. It's a varied business. There is clearly mature markets that are growing at a slower rate. There is some markets that are growing at a faster rate. I would say, overall, I would characterize the market as one that is stable and growing a couple percentage points one year probably shrinking a couple percentage points the other year. So what's important about this market is the shift that is happening towards higher-value products like recyclers that provide significant value for customers.

And what's also important is that we view that when you think of the cash ecosystem at the branch level, you can't only just think about the ATM. You need to think about the teller line. As banks think of a different way to serve customers, it's all about this cash ecosystem in the branch. And we've now entered with our teller cash recycler into this market. So that should help us accelerate a little bit of the growth that we – that probably a flattish ATM market won't provide in the coming years. So that's kind of the view on the market. What are we doing to – again, I don't think we have undue reliance on hardware services or software. We have a solution set that basically gets bought in conjunction by customers. So no customer wants an ATM – or they want an ATM, they want the service associated with that, they want the software associated with that.

So clearly, as we package these components together, we will allow customers to either buy the components individually, buy them in a predefined solution for them or buy them as a service. We keep growing as well in our managed services business, allowing customers to outsource important parts of their operation to us. So as we provide customers this flexibility of choice, we see that some of them might opt to move to more of an outsourced model, while others will – might remain committed to them running their own operations as they drive significant value from our technology. So I would say that we're optimistic that we will have for that by providing customer choice, we can continue driving growth in our business.

So I'll take that one, Matt. So what you'll see us talking about is this continuous improvement mindset that we're implementing in our company. So, where we are today is not the end goal that we have. Our goal is to continuously improve revenues, margin and free cash flow. So, we're trying to create this flywheel effect in our company where you constantly see us taking small incremental steps but accelerating our progression.

So as Pat mentioned in his opening comments, we will have an Investor Day later in this first half of the year, where we will highlight those longer-term goals. But again, the idea is we're at the beginning of the journey, not at the end of the journey. So, from here on, you should expect us to continuously improve.

Sure, Matt. So probably the easiest answer is, yes. I am confident that revenues will not dip as we accelerate backlog conversion. We still see a strong demand environment for all our products. So revenue for the – as you said, three quarters of the product revenue is covered by backlog. Again, different regions have different rates of acceleration in orders, but we feel confident in the plan that we put forward.

And remember, one of our goals is also to normalize our backlog, which also creates benefits in some of our working capital, inventory planning, collections. So, the goal that I've stated for quite some time now, and we're starting to get closer to that is to have two to two-and-a-half quarters of revenues in backlog at any given time.

So, when you think that we ended the year with $1.15 billion, $1.2 billion of we still could probably normalize or reduce backlog as we accelerate revenue a little bit, but then keep it consistent at that level. So, we're confident on how that's going to play out through the year.
