Ole Rosgaard
Greif, Inc. (GEF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Ghansham.

CapEx guidance.

Yeah, I mean, we are raising the prices because we, like everybody else, have faced inflationary cost pressures. Obviously, OCC is up. We deliver great services to our customers, and demand's been up. So we are -- we've gone out with that, and it will be effective January 1. That's essentially it.

Yeah, you've got that trend stuff there.

Yeah.

Yeah, so sequentially a significant turnaround because we've been running negative, so.

We haven't closed on Ipackchem yet. That will close here in the first calendar quarter. [Technical Difficulty] Ipackchem they operate in nine countries. And given the volume situation we have at the moment and our guidance, we're not sort of going out aggressively to buy, but we have the means to do something, and we remain opportunistic over the next six months in terms of what's available. And we're not going to miss a good opportunity to do a good deal.

Well, what needs to happen is, I mean, obviously there's a lot of factors involved, but if we see a interest rate reduction, we will probably see some improvements in the housing sector. And the housing sector, when people move houses, drives a lot of the business we see from our paint in segments, but also on container boards. That would be a huge positive, probably the biggest, I would say. And then you have all the issues on geopolitical conflicts we have around the world, that has an effect as well. Those would probably be the biggest.

Yeah, we didn't really look at the price cost. I don't, I'm not ready to answer that on a quarter by quarter basis. I didn't go back and look at where we were on each, but I guess just off the top, things trended throughout the year, obviously with OCC going up in the paper business throughout the year and we got price cuts more, back half of the year. So, that would say that you'd be better at the end of the year than at the beginning. But then we've got our price increase announced that we are implementing on January 1st. So that would obviously help in the first, more in the second quarter than the first.

Hi, Roger, I can give you that the first one in Q4 was a contraction of 4.3% on IBCs.

Full year is a contraction of 9.5%.

Yes, number one, it is a less consolidated business across the globe. There's a lot of players. It's also a more sophisticated product to produce. On small plastic and you can kind of split it up in three buckets. You have a commodity market, then you have the middle, a little bit commodity, a little bit premium, and then you have the premium market, which is really where we operate, where you have things like barrier technologies, you have special designs and that sort of thing.

Hey, Gabe. I'm sure you've been called worse.

Yeah, Gabe, it's something that there's always been some, it is really minor in the overall market. We've seen a little bit more, but it's not substantial.

Partially. I mean, we have built in some relatively minor growth in from containerboard in the year, but it's like $60 million. Now we also are closing down our Santa Clara mill, so that would take a little bit out. But yeah, you're right. We're being relatively conservative in that low end guidance. I mean, it's low end because it's low end.

Yes.

No, it’s containerboard.

Oh, boy, we have that somewhere. We'll get that, Gabe.