Olivier Rabiller
Garrett Motion Inc. (GTX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So, Hamed, that's a very good question. Obviously, let me unpack a little bit what we mean by flattish to down. When we say flattish to down, we are referring to the light vehicle production worldwide. And I think we are very consistent in our forecasts with the consultants and from what I've seen from our peers reporting for the last few weeks, we are very consistent as well.

In that environment, we are planning to have increased turbo penetration and increase our demand, which at the end is the reason why we are maintaining our revenue flat despite a forecasted growth of battery electric vehicle that is about 300 basis point, which also is very consistent with everyone into the industry since we have not seen yet into the predictions the impact of the so-called slowdown of battery electric vehicle. So, we are planning for 15% battery electric vehicle.

Some people may say it's a bit aggressive at 15% or conservative depending on the way where you place yourself in the short term. But we'd rather plan like everyone for the timing and the results of all that is despite that expected growth on the EVs, we are having our share of the business that's growing. Yes, we are getting the share of demand gains.

We have -- I think we have explained several times that we are planning to get to $1 billion revenue on zero-emission technology by 2030, which comprises of three technologies. The first one is on fuel cell compressors. So, it's for hydrogen fuel cell vehicle. It's not for battery electric vehicle, but these are zero-emission solutions as well. This is a business where we are already recording revenue. I think we've said that today that we are expecting about $20 million of revenue already on fuel cell compressors in 2024.

The second technology is the high-speed electric motors coupled with a gearbox and inverter, which is a technology that is specific to us and unique to us with high-power density, where we have recorded already a number of predevelopment contracts. And obviously, there is a significant portion of that $1 billion, look, that is coming from that technology.

And the last one is E compressors. The idea is to use centrifugal electric, high-speed electric compressor technology, that once again is unique to us, to provide a step change to our customers in terms of power and power density when it comes to the huge needs of coolings that you have for battery electric vehicle. So that technology once again will be applicable to a battery electric vehicle. And this is a technology where we have recorded again three more predevelopment contracts during Q4.

So more to come. Today what we say is that we are confirming the trajectory that we had highlighted in October during our Investor Day.

So, Michael, that's a very good question. What we see in Europe is that the turbo penetration of that we have on hybrids is higher than the turbo penetration that we have on non-hybrid vehicle. So, you would expect the same to happen in the U.S., if there is more hybrids. Obviously, in the short-term, that should come at the expense to some level of BEV. So maybe that's an opportunity on that side. And at the same time, that's an opportunity for us for an increased turbo penetration. But more than the increased turbo penetration, it's also the increased level of technology that you have for the turbo on hybrid application which tends to be higher than what you have on non-hybrid application as well. So, it's higher turbo penetration and more technology.

I think we published, by the way, recently the content per vehicle that we have on the different technologies. So, we can refer to that again. If we move to a variable geometry turbo charger, we are obviously increasing the content by a percentage. And then if we move to electric turbo charging or electric boosting, there is another increase that can even double the price of the turbo charging system.

In Europe, we are between 85% and 90%.

And if you look at the three regions that we are serving between -- just to make a shortcut between Europe, China and the U.S., the U.S. are lagging behind the two other regions. So the potential in the U.S. is huge.

Yes. You're looking at it. Absolutely.
