Owen Thomas
Boston Properties, Inc. (BXP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Yes, as I said in my remarks, the lease extensions did spark the acquisitions that we made. And it's for the reasons that you outlined. So with each of these extensions came a capital requirement for tenant work, leasing commissions and, in some cases, building upgrades. And the two partners had a shift in strategy to disinvest or reallocate away from office. And that basically sparked the acquisitions. The other thing I would point out, other assets had future capital requirements as well. So in the case of Santa Monica Business Park, we have the Snap renewal, but also we have a fee purchase option coming up in 2028. That could -- if we elect to purchase the fee, that will have a capital requirement. And those 360 Park Avenue South, there was not an anchor lease renewal because that project is under redevelopment. It's in the middle of the redevelopment. So the partner basically sold out their position in the middle of funding that development. So it also had a future funding requirements. So those are really the drivers.

Yes. And just lastly, John, to the second question that you asked, never say never. There might be other opportunities to acquire interest in properties that we own, but I certainly don't think the volume would be anything like what we experienced in the last quarter. For example, today, our largest joint venture partner is Norges. And in the last quarter, they actually increased their number of joint ventures with us because we did these two major JVs in Cambridge. And obviously, they have a different strategy from the JV partners that we acquired interest from. So it could be more, but I don't think it will be anything close to the volume that we experienced last quarter.

Yes. I think the -- Alex, to answer your question on the debt side, Mike should answer. But in general, as you know, we primarily finance with unsecured financing, and we have great access to that market and have been accessing it and we think it's very attractive. And in most cases, we've been able to extend or refinance existing mortgages that we have on our joint ventures. Look, I think in terms of the answer to your question, the JV partners would have to answer it in terms of how they thought about the returns that they were forecasting from the extensions that we committed to. But when we do our own math, and we shared some of it with you on this call, we think it's very attractive and it's very accretive to our company, and we think it makes a lot of sense. So our suspicion, as a result, is that these decisions that they made were more related to a change in strategy as opposed to a lack of enthusiasm for the return. I'd also just make an additional point on this. These are two different partners, and they come from a little bit different position. So the partner on 901 has been a long-term investor in that project, and they have been in it, and they have made a good return and has been very successful for them. So maybe it was a change in strategy, but it also might have been, look, we've been in this for a very long period of time. We've done fine. Maybe this would be a good time to exit. I think on the partner on the other two deals, Santa Monica Business Park and 360, definitely, they were newer to the JVs, and I think that clearly was more of a change in strategy.

Yes. So I'll turn it over to Mike for the second question. But in terms of the first question, I mentioned the yield that we bought this and the per foot that we bought the asset on a fee simple basis, we think that's very attractive pricing. We were able to derisk the asset materially through the extension of the anchor tenant, which leases 400-plus thousand square feet of the 1.2 million square feet. And also, we think that Santa Monica Business Park is a very interesting redevelopment opportunity for our company, and we're in the process of commencing that redevelopment process. And we think over a long period of time, it's going to be a very accretive asset to our company. So we are excited about the asset.

Well, as you said, as I mentioned in my remarks, I do think there will be opportunities that will present themselves for the company this coming year. And as you said, we will -- the joint venture partner more than likely using third-party capital, and we will be using our balance sheet to fund our joint venture interest in whatever we come up with. But it's -- again, we are receiving inquiries. We are looking at things, but we're not, I would say, advanced in anything at this time. But if we look at what we think will happen in 2024 versus illiquidity in the market in 2023, I think activity will be greater this coming year.

Yes. So Nick. Good morning, so there have been more office transactions in the fourth quarter. In my remarks, I gave some stats, and it was kind of interesting to me the percentage of the commercial real estate transactions that are going on from office increased materially in the fourth quarter to the third. So what's happening? I think there are more distressed players that are out there, buying assets at very low per square foot prices. Some of these assets are challenged physically, most of them are not very well leased. And I think those buyers are family offices, for example, they're smaller deals that don't need leverage. Because again, getting a secured mortgage for an office building is virtually impossible. And I think these buyers are just saying, look at this per square foot price, we think the market will ultimately recover, and we're in at a good basis. So I think that's the kind of market that's out there. Those aren't the kind of deals that we want to do. I mean we're looking for premier workplaces. We're looking for assets. They may not be fully leased. Maybe there are some challenges with it or an asset that we can make a premier workplace, and they're going to be larger and they're going to probably require funding from the financing market in some way. And I think there's much less competition for anything like that. And I think, hence, that's BXP's opportunity.

No, those are both correct. And that also has, as you know, 75,000 square feet of office and then some ancillary retail. And we're working on a couple of deals for the retail space. And we've got, I would say, a real prospect for about half of the office space that we're speaking to, but not at LOI stage with at this point in time.

I would tell you -- I didn't go through it this quarter because we had so much other stuff to go through. But the premier workplace data that I generally provide on this call shows accelerating distancing between premier workplaces and the rest of the market from a vacancy, net absorption and rental perspective. So at least at a high level, the trend to premier workplace continues to run unabated.

Yeah. I think it's a mix. As we've just described some partners that are trying to reallocate away from office. And -- but there are others that are interested, they're intrigued. I think they see the same opportunity that we do. You know that – you know there is the all of these negative sentiment about office is creeping into the premier workplace segment, which doesn't deserve it, given all of the color that we just gave you on this call. And I think there are investors, who have capital that see that and are interested in co-investing with us. And so in terms of pricing, I think it's to be determined. I think it depends a lot on the building, leasing status and what exactly the issues are. There's no doubt that pricing has changed. And we demonstrated what some of those changes are with the deals we did last quarter.

Floris, you're asking a very good but unanswerable question, and I'll explain why. We tried. I try every quarter to give all of you comparable market deals. So we all understand together what pricing is. And this quarter, I could not come up with one. The only one was the deal in West L.A., but it had a lease buyout, and I'm not sure it was per se, a comparable deal. We gave you some data on partner buyouts that we did. Each one of those deals have different facts. For example, the Santa Monica deal was an unlevered fee simple cap rate. Well, that's got an assumption in there about Land Valley. So how accurate and how usable is that cap rate, I don't know. But we did just give you 3 cap rates on deals in New York, West L.A. and Washington, D.C. on partners that we bought out. So that is some data. And then lastly, in terms of what would be interesting to us, we pay attention to what is the look through cap rate for BXP and what would be accretive to us. And today, I think that number is around 7.5%. And we need to -- if we're going to do things that need to accrete our earnings. And so we're going to be focused on that, look through cap rate as a guidepost for what we do.

I can't imagine you all want to hear any more remarks from us. So I thank you for your patience. This is a complicated quarter. We got through a lot of data. And again, thank you for your time and interest in BXP.