Pat Roche
Moog Inc. (MOG.A) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And Cai, that's on a path towards improvements again in fiscal '25 and '26. And as we said in Investor Day, we'd expect free cash flow at that time to be up around 75% to 100%.

We've made a lot of success, I think, Cai, in reducing the risk on those programs. As we said, as I mentioned in my notes on the call, 3 of the units, the first -- sorry, 4 of the units, the first 4 meteorites have shipped to the customer. They've been integrated with the customer's hardware they've been tested, they subject to environmental testing, and they're ready for launch. So that's a really positive step forward. So the risk is burned down significantly in those programs. We haven't yet shipped an satellite to the customer. They are in development and finalization. I think it will be sometime during next year that we deliver a meteor satellite to a customer. There are some further deliveries of meteorite. I think there's another 3 units have been delivered to our customer site. So my summary is that we're making good progress with it, Cai. We've more and more hardware shipping through. There is still some development work ongoing. So you can say, yes, there still remains some risk, but we're not anticipating any charges.

The Luxemburg entities that we're looking to divest is about $15 million of revenue in total. So that's -- maybe helps you characterize the piece that's been taken out of the business. We are expecting a slowdown in the industrial automation business. We've sort of signposted it for a while now that the economies are slowing down. And Germany has seen 2 quarters of basically stagnant economic growth. And so we've built that into our plans for the year. I mean, we've already -- we took some restructuring charges in this quarter. That's sort of getting ahead of that contraction in business that we're showing here, and that's what helps us maintain our profitability through the year in the industrial side.

We have it in for a quarter out of the 4.

And there's less aftermarket in '24 as well, and the aftermarket is -- got good margins. So it's a mix shift as well, Michael.

We've only a limited number of customers there, Michael. It's been too sensitive to be giving actual numbers. Sorry.

And I'd agree with Jennifer's comments. I mean flight hours and fleet utilization are high again. And that's the stable part of it that's driving more business into us on the aftermarket side and the absence of the specialist that really reflected in the reduction.

Yes. There was some realignment going on within the market with some of the distribution channels changing during the course of '23, Michael. That resulted in some flow-through of our flushing through of inventory that was in the system, and so that caused a reduction in demand on us. That's part of the picture that's still normalizing. So the just the main thing that's going on, some changes in the market dynamics. Yes, the top there.

So audio book up slightly when you started the question, but I think it's around the defense budgeting for next year and is there going to be any impact if let us say, or delays in Congress. Delays in continuing resolutions. And if that was the question, Justin. We're not expecting any impact on our business next year as a result of that. That will be a transient thing that will get resolved, but it won't affect the programs that are actually running in our facilities at this time.

We haven't split that out, Justin, in detail. What we did say during the Investor Day was that the pricing activity will be coming in stronger at the front half of our program over the 3 years and the simplification activities would flow through in the latter part of the 3-year period. They take a little bit more tight, execute and therefore, you see the benefit of them further downstream. So what you're seeing today and in the last 6 months or so, feeding through an industrial and aircraft group is predominantly coming from pricing activity.

So thanks, everyone, for attending the call. I think we had an outstanding quarter. We're really pleased with the progress we're making on our on our journey, and we look forward to reporting further progress in the Q1 call, which will be my fifth earnings call. Thank you very much. Bye now.
