Pat Shanahan
Spirit AeroSystems Holdings, Inc. (SPR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Seth, I would tell you that we are cycling at 42 a month but building at 38 a month. And by that, I mean we have a production schedule that allows us to have buffer days, and it's our means of testing our ability to go up in rate. And that buffer -- those buffer days allow the factory to when we talk about stability, minimized traveled work, have everybody stay in position. So from that standpoint, we're in a good position, and we'll take our guidance from Boeing as to how to adjust our schedules if necessary.

Maybe I'll just address those two nonconforming holes, those are not a safety of flight issue, and just kind of characterize the normal process. Anytime there's a nonconformity, we basically scope and bound it engineering does a preliminary look to see if there's a safety of flight issue, then essentially, we communicate to the customers if there's any potential exposure, but we say, here's a heads up and then we do a detailed engineering analysis and work to get a final disposition when we have a final disposition that we can determine and repair and from that a response.

And relative to these two holes, there is not a final engineering disposition. We expect that in the next 72 hours. Based on that, we'll determine what the repair might be and any impact associated with that. And then the follow-on is a root-cause corrective action.

Maybe just to answer the question about the buffer or what we refer to as the ship in place, there are 42 available units today to ship in place. We're taking a few extra days. So think of that as a delay on some of the deliveries to rented just to make sure we can complete all the inspections related to the mid-entry door plug as well as any known rework and doing -- conducting some additional inspections.

Yes, Jason, I think it's hard to go back and look at how we got here. I wish I had that history. But what I would tell you is the basic fundamentals around rate breaks haven't changed. Some of the dynamics around the supply chain have changed. I would offer that some of the work that Spirit has done in the fourth quarter to align the 2024 plan with Boeing's rate schedule has afforded us some more stability. We have used that time to improve the dynamics of the supply chain. We've seen a lot of improvement in the near term to support rate 42. As it relates to rate 47, we have line of sight on virtually all the issues.

Suppliers that we have to give special attention to. But at this point, the majority of the issues are related to raw material and labor availability. I think the hardest part of this industry is given its complexity and breadth, how do you judge how quickly to go up in rate. In the case of the 737, it's been done before. So there's a playbook that parametrically says -- this is what you can do, but we have to adjust that for current events in the environment.

But I would say that the 2024 plan we laid out is -- incorporates the existing environment. And if there are any changes, we'll accommodate Boeing's direction.

I guess I would respond not so much to the hypothetical, but the fact that we're behaving as if we were part of Boeing and that the coordination and the integration you refer to is really taking place now. So if you sat in one of our meetings, you people took off their badges, you would not be able to tell which company they worked for. I think because of the trust that's been built recently, some of the feedback loops that existed in the past are being restored and that should allow us to even work better together.

I would -- I think as a result of the MOA and the shedding of the financial constraints, it opened up the aperture to really work more seamlessly together, and we're seeing that. And I think we're surprised every single day how much more quickly people are working shoulder to shoulder. So I think the MOA was a big change that allowed us to increase the integration between the two companies.

Sheila, I'm just trying to think. Yes. No, no, no. I mean we obviously go up in rates, you can distribute the overhead more broadly. The fundamentals of the things that we're doing in terms of improving cash flow or cost reduction and a lot of that's through productivity or improvement in quality. So those things aren't going to change. We've built a plan around achieving support labor support, I'll say, cost that mirrors our performance in 2018.

We're working to that regardless of a change in direction from Boeing. So that might dampen a bit. Indirect costs, we're going after the same way, probably the one that wouldn't be affected by rate as working capital because we just need to optimize that to a much larger degree last year, we were anticipating being at a much higher rate. So there's a real opportunity there regardless of where the rates stabilize that. Mark, do you have any other comments?

Sheila, maybe just one add-on here. I think we have to think about the supply chain. I mean, I think that's the one that if we do change production rates, we have to figure out what do we do with the things that we've already ordered. How do we keep them healthy, so that as things get corrected, we can go back to building fuselages? So I think that would be the one we still need to sort through.

You say that one more time. This is on the?

Well, our focus has really been on price and the focus has really been on understanding between the two companies what is the right level of productivity that should be achieved that they're willing to pay for and what is costs were all aligned on that is real and needs to be reflected in the price. And our discussions to date have been in substantiating both of those. And along with that, aligning expectations around our performance on the A220 and the A350 in '24.

And maybe just to add on to what Mark is saying, they're discrete plans around how we're managing the suppliers and the buffer. So again, one of the things we ask them to do is protect the factory in terms of the critical jobs that need parts to maintain the build of the aircraft. And so in those critical areas, we've built buffer stock. They're also suppliers when we look at their history that are unpredictable.

So those we will continue to work with, but we'll probably build some buffer stock. Then there are the highly reliable consistent suppliers where we need to maximize inventory turns and the teams are taking those bleeding down the inventory and trying to balance there, the suppliers build -- they don't want to turn them off and start them at the same time, we've got a kind of optimized way to get our inventory turns up. So it's a dance and the teams are able to do pulled 10 levers, whereas in the past, I think it was just one order all the parts.

So I expect to see a real improvement in 2024.

Yes. No, good. Thank you for that question. And I remember in the last call, you asked me about just the overall quality and maybe we can expand into that. I think the short answer to that question is our quality management system really looks at product quality the FAA's safety management system looks at product safety.

So our first look at the 37 has been through the product safety lens. And maybe just in parallel, I think what you'll find is that there -- if we drew a Venn diagram, there would be a lot of overlap between the safety management system risk assessment and feedback nonconformities for our QMS. But our first priority has been to look through the product safety lens. We have four discrete categories that we're evaluating. If you look at the installation plans that we have that direct how 737 fuselage is built, there 2,300 through this lens of product safety, we've distilled it down to 200 that we're going through and doing a detailed examination of to include observations of the mechanics and a review by our master mechanic of the build process.

That's in parallel, I think, Doug, maybe to this broader question of what are you doing now about quality? And what are you doing long-term? And the short answer for us at Spirit on quality is less manual, less interpretation and more inspections. Medium-term and long-term is more human-assisted equipment and technology, more automation. And when we think about, well, where is the focus, it's where most of the manual work is, it's in the forward and rear sections of the airplane.

If you are a mechanic working in there, you'd almost have to be a gymnast. So we're really looking at, well, how do we address the human factors as some of this other technology is bridging to be implemented. We're very focused in four areas. The first is proficiency. We got to test more, we got to train more. The second is compliance. And I always think of Bill Belichick here is do your job. So part of the compliance piece is people have to show up and do their job.

I mean, we will help them do their job, but there's an element of they need to be committed to personal warranty. The third is, there's a lot of things we can do to mistake proof. The build of the aircraft. And probably the last one is observation. It's not just more inspections, but it's our team spending more time on the factory floor. So that's -- if you were to come here to our war room and look at our plans, you see that we're really trying to address human factors in the near term, prioritized by product safety.

Yes. I mean that's the question that I think we all wrestle with how can we predict the future? It's hard. I don't know how to predict it, but I -- some of the things that we just talked about it, the best way to do that. So it's here in short order, making real progress in making these things stick, I think, will give us the belt and suspenders confidence that we can mitigate this.

I'd say the other one is we've been working with Boeing to do more inspections and more inspections as though we weren't doing a lot of inspections. I think what we're doing a better job of is harmonizing our work together. So we're looking at it the same way, at the same time, all the time and trying to keep it here in Wichita. And these are -- some of them are our interpretation of fastener rider skin quality. But those -- when we're working together mitigate what ends up being found in rent in where it's much more disruptive to fix.

And in addition, it's not margins, but we also made working capital investments to also stabilize that factory and that put a little bit of pressure on cash, although your question wasn't about cash. It was more about the margins. But the goal here is once you have a stable factory, the financials will come with it, and that's what we're focused on.

Maybe I'll just add on to that. Noah when we think about like the A220, for example, a good portion of the cost reduction, which allows us to get to the right pricing level comes from a transfer of work. Many of the suppliers that we would transfer the work to. This is coming out the old Bombardier supply chain are going to Airbus suppliers. And we've jointly evaluated those costs, and Airbus has a significant history with those suppliers. So I feel confident in that cost basis. We also have a fairly good understanding of the cost and productivity curves for assembly, particularly in Belfast.

So and that's really 9% or 10% of the cost. But those learning curves hold true. And I would just say on the A350, there's a history of a higher production. So that kind of holds as a baseline that we need to get back to, and then there's a normal adjustment for labor and raw material price increases. So I don't think there's -- with these increased rates that it really creates a different cost estimating basis that we're not familiar with.

I don't think so. I guess the real difference is I know more people at Boeing than I do at Airbus, but I've quickly come to meet quite a few of the executive leadership through program reviews we've been doing on the $220 million and the $350 million. But my Rolodex isn't as great. But I'd say the interaction is just as positive and the transparency and the focus on driving improvement. I'll do a number of -- they use Google Meet, we Google meet. And the feedback I get is just as direct as the feedback I get from Boeing and working together effort is almost identical.

I mean, everybody tries to get the job done the right way. I think with Boeing, I just have a few more tricks in my bag just because of my familiarity with how to navigate their system. But the treatment and the behavior and working together Spirit out of [indiscernible] is strong. And we just were able to get things done pretty well.

It will be significantly different. And the heaviest weighting will be on quality. And right now, I'm really working to design it. So the system can't -- manipulation is probably too strong, but I want to make sure that it drives the right behaviors and we can measure true performance. I'll just do a shout out to Donna Anderson at [indiscernible] she threw out the idea. You got to really look at the utility industry we're in their quality metric, there's a significant penalty for an escape.

So we're really trying to look at how do we measure defect reduction, but also what if there's any type of escape. Only one wouldn't drive much in the metric, but it really should. So the answer your question is we're changing it fundamentally, and we're now making sure that what we put in place works well and drives the right kind of behavior.

Why don't we switch? Why don't you answer the [indiscernible] I'll answer the 53.

Yes, just maybe comment on the CH-53 program, we disappointed Stephanie Hill and our teammates at Lockheed Martin in '23. We're on track to turn that around in '24, and it personally consumes my time every week, so we can deliver not only deliver on the airframes we've committed to, but also get to a higher production rate that supports the needs of the Marine Corps.
