Patrice Louvet
Ralph Lauren Corporation (RL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Matt, and good morning. Well, let me first reground us in the fact that we just finished an above algorithm year on revenue and on track on profit. So we continue to build our business for the long term. And this past year's progress puts us on the path to deliver on our long-term plan.

So to answer your question very simply, our long-term ambitions have not changed. And this confidence is really grounded in a number of unique strengths which are particularly relevant in choppier environments. First of all, a brand that people love and desire that we are continuing to invest in. Second, core products that consumers know and trust that aren't based on seasonal fashion or trends. And we know that during choppier times, consumers tend to gravitate back to these more iconic categories and iconic products. And so for us here, think about Polo shirts, Oxford shirts, blazers, dresses and even ties are back.

Third is strong operational fundamentals, which I think have been demonstrated throughout the past few years. Fourth is multiple growth levers, and you saw that play out in this quarter again. And then finally, a proven ability to flex to consumer demand. So these factors give us broad confidence that we continue to be on track with the goals that we laid out about 9 months ago.

Now let me offer some perspective on how we're thinking about the consumer overall to the second part of your question, and I know this is a top of mind question for many of you on this call. First of all, I would say our core consumer is resilient. And we are seeing that around the world in Asia, in Europe and here in North America as well. And that segment is growing as we're bringing in new consumers into the Ralph Lauren family.

The second point is that our consumers across every region are also responding well to our continued brand elevation strategy. This is evidenced by the fact that our brand desirability continues to strengthen, our value perception is growing, and we track this on a quarterly basis in our key markets. We're recruiting millions of new consumers, 5.2 million this past fiscal year, including growing our highest value consumers double digits, which we're particularly excited about. And all of this while expanding AUR plus 12% this quarter, plus 77% over the past 5 years.

The third point I would call out is that we saw a lot of work to grow our consumer base outside of North America. And today, nearly half of our business is international and actually more than half of our profit is international. And as you saw in the last fiscal year, and particularly this last quarter, our Asia performance has been a real highlight. I'm very proud of the work that our teams have done across Asia and in particular, in China and we anticipate another year of above algorithm growth there, broader Asia.

And then finally, in North America specifically, there is continued divergence between our core high-value consumers and that subset us more value-oriented consumers that we called out in prior quarter. Clearly, those more value-oriented consumers for a smaller part of our customer base and getting smaller and smaller as we bring in higher -- more higher value consumers into the Ralph Lauren family are feeling increased pressure because of inflation, because of increased interest rates. And I think you've heard this from others as well. But we believe we've appropriately embedded this caution into our guide.

So Matt, we know where we're headed. We feel good about the multiple drivers in place to get there. I think we have a strong track record as a team in the business, and we'll manage this year with agility again. Jane, over to you on pricing power.

So I think it is fair to say that the environment has been more pressured. And listen, we expect it to stay volatile as we come into this new fiscal year. We are still -- you just heard that from Jane, we're still firmly committed to our elevation strategy, which we started well before COVID over 5 years ago. And why? Because it's working. The strategy has served us well through stronger and weaker macro backdrops. We're seeing strong consumer response to what we are doing.

And I think it's pretty clear also to Matt's earlier question that our brands continue to have strong pricing power in the marketplace across every region, right? You saw AUR grew across every single region this past fiscal year, in this past quarter. And we believe this is becoming an even bigger differentiator for Ralph Lauren relative to peers in this environment. And we are guided by the consumer here, right? And as Jane mentioned, the consumer response to our brand elevation on product, on storytelling, on selling environment continues to be strong. And the AUR is an outcome of all of that, and we feel quite good about our ability to continue on this journey, and then Jane, I'll turn it over to you for some more color on the second part of Jay's question.

And then wholesale, I would add to that perspective that the brand elevation strategy that we're applying is playing out well in the wholesale environment in the U.S. Jane, you mentioned AUR. AUR up 8% in wholesale this past quarter in a relatively promotional environment. Over the long term, we've been growing share in Men's, in Women's, particularly strength recently in Women's and in Children's. And I think we're nicely aligned with the strategic direction of our key wholesale partners.

And I would add that our biggest partner there is Zalando in Europe. Zalando is on the brand elevation strategy, pulling back on promotional activity and that's very consistent with where we want to take the brand in Europe. So strategically, we feel very good about the direction that Zalando is taking.

Maybe tack team on this. On marketing spend, as Jane mentioned in her prepared remarks, our strategy is to spend about 7% of revenue on marketing. That's roughly where we were this past fiscal year. That's where we will be this coming fiscal year. It won't necessarily play out exactly per quarter at 7% because obviously, we have fashion shows and those types of events that will skew the numbers in a particular quarter. But directionally, 7% of revenue, we expect modest revenue growth, so you can expect the absolute dollars of marketing spend to increase on the total brand. Jane, I'll let you do the raw materials.

And then your question on wholesale. So just stepping back a little bit, our direction of travel from a strategic standpoint is to pivot the company further into DTC. Our DTC today is about 63%, 64% of -- for the total company. And as we guided during Investor Day, we expect the numbers to be north of that in the coming years. Now we believe wholesale -- quality wholesale has an important role to play in our go-to-market model as well. If you do the world tour, in Asia, most of our business, if not all of it, is concession. So to a large sense, actually a DTC business. It's nicely elevated. We had really nice momentum there, as you saw in the results that we just announced. And so we're focused on running the play and continuing to drive elevation there.

In Europe, it is a mix of concessions and wholesale. And in Europe, what we're working on is continued elevation. There's been some really nice work done in Germany, in France, we're looking very good in France and had really nice performance this past year in France wholesale in the U.K. In Southern Europe, there's opportunity to elevate. So we're putting emphasis on customers like El Corte Ingles, right, to make sure that we show up the way we want to show up in the appropriate doors. And then as we were just talking earlier and Jane mentioned some of this on pure players, pure players are an important part of our wholesale business today. It will be even more important in the future. And I'm actually quite excited about some of the strategic pivots that some of the European pure players are doing because it really lines up nicely with our strategic approach. And I refer to an example earlier on that.

And then as far as North America is concerned, kind of 2 tiers of wholesale last, right? Remember, we closed 66% of our wholesale doors over the past 3 or 4 years. The upper tier is performing quite strongly, and we feel good about the way we're positioned there. So think of the Saks in the Blooming deals of this world and consistent with what we talked about our core luxury consumer being quite resilient. As far as the premium tier is concerned, our focus is on share gain. These are players, I think that I would say if they were on this call that they're picking between the winners and the losers and they're putting investment behind the winners and pulling back on the losers. We are fortunate to be part of that winner's column based on our performance over the past few years, share growth, value creation, joint value creation with them. So we are benefiting from staffing investments from these partners. We're benefiting from capital investments from these partners as we continue to elevate our brand presence in these more limited doors given the number of doors that we've closed.

And our focus is on share gain, right? And as I mentioned earlier, over the longer term, we are growing share across all 3 of our segments, and we have a number of initiatives in place to continue to drive that while driving brand elevation. And I'm pleased to see that our AUR was up 8%, high single digits, up 8% this past quarter, in an environment that's still relatively promotional. So hopefully, that gives you a bit of a sense of how we're thinking about the broader go-to-market strategy moving forward.

All right. Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us today and we look forward to engaging with you at our Annual Shareholder Meeting and first quarter fiscal '241 earnings call in early August. Until then, take good care.
