Patrick Kaltenbach
Mettler-Toledo International Inc. (MTD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, I'll take that. Look, Shawn and I have been in China in December and of course we're in continued conversations with the local team there, sales management team to see if there are any changes. I would say China at the moment is still quite weak, especially in pharma, biopharma, but from our perspective, the situation has not deteriorated from what we reported on at the JPMorgan conference.

Clearly they have seen still facing many headwinds. There has been very significant spending and growth during the COVID period, but right now we are facing a situation where there's a lack of stimulus from the government. There's a lot of uncertainty still there. There is some reduced foreign investment as well. So all of the economy that is focused on stabilizing the real estate market and I think that in itself leads to just also softer demand at the moment, but overall it hasn't changed.

As I said in my comments, core industrial has been actually a bit better than expected in Q4, but we remain a bit cautious on our outlook, still in the first half of '24 and the second half will be easier for us because we have much easier compares. As a reminder, we had been down 25% in Q3 last year, 23% in Q4. This year, we told you that the first half will be down. So the second half will be now for us in '24, there'll be an easier compare.

I think we have a lot of good strategic drivers there. We have a very strong team and we are confident that we will be able to continue getting market share with our programs, our products that we have there and there's also long-term that the market in China has, as we told you before, has high single entry growth opportunities.

Sure, I can take that. We are making actually quite pleased with the ongoing progress that we're making and we are also expecting really to work down the backlog during Q1. We have a lot of our own experts there on site as well to help the local management team of our service partner there to get all the processes in place and stabilized, which have been the issue during Q4 when we transferred the full 100% of the volume from our former logistics provider to this new logistics provider.

There are a lot more comprehensive processes involved on site there, like mini finish processes, etcetera and that can be brought our experts there to help them understand these processes, build enough capacity and making sure that everything from product into the logistics center to product out of the logistics center, that process flow is stable and really matching the volumes that we are expecting.

As I said, we're making good progress there. We expect the backlog to go down and having a more stable operation clearly at the end of Q1 and while it still might maintain some more oversight from us during the next couple of quarters, we are confident that this is a very good logistics provider moving forward and that they can deliver the performance that we expect from them.

Yeah, I'll start with it and Shawn, feel free to chime in. When you mentioned pipette tips, I think we're done with the pipette tip stocking issue and the reason why I'm saying that is that we see now more normal order patterns, meaning customers are ordering more frequently, not at very high volumes, but the order pattern is back to normal. So while the volume is still a bit lower than during -- or still lower than during the pandemic, the frequency of orders has normalized and that for me is an indication that the overstocking of pipette tips is behind us.

We still are working down or our customers are still working down some inventory more on the process analytics business with the sensors they have ordered, mainly also in the biopharma area and we expect that to remain through Q1 and Q2 and then by the end of Q2 or towards the second half of the year, that's at least what we're hearing right now from the channels. They should also have worked off that inventory as well.

Sure, absolutely. And again, I'll probably give you some insights into the different regions, but also the different end markets. So, what we're seeing is a lot of very good activity out there, meaning customers are really interested, especially in the new products that we have launched over the last year and that's why we are so excited also about the future.

There is good customer engagement. We have a lot of discussions. Still, it takes longer than normal to close the opportunities to orders, and that's also a sign that our customers are still reluctant to really spend the budgets that they have now at hand, or maybe they have some reduced budgets, but there's really very good activity, and if I look into the leads and the funnel that we have, the opportunities, I think we are quite positive about the momentum we are seeing there and we don't see any further deterioration from what we had seen last year. So, that's why we positioned in saying, hey, the underlying market visions haven't deteriorated further, whether it's in the biopharma market, where it's still soft, whether it's in the industrial space, where we see actually a very good demand for industrial automation and digitalization efforts, and we have a great portfolio as well.

We saw a bit softening, especially in Europe, on product inspection towards the -- or throughout Q4, and also now starting into Q1 and that's largely in Europe, and its big customers in the food area that are still holding back budgets. They have projects, but they are not ready to spend the money yet and I think that's also based on the fact that they are under pressure. If you read the news, you hear a lot of news about these packaged food customers that are also under pressure with reduced profits and bigger demand as well.

But otherwise, I would say markets are stable. The regions have developed as we expected it, and China, I outlined already, the US, good demand, and Shawn has outlined the growth for the year for the different regions as well. The EU is a bit softer at the moment. It was very resilient last year. At the moment, it's a bit softer than we have seen it last year, especially in Germany.

Yeah, thanks, Rachel. And I'll start, and then Shawn, if you have some additional comments, feel free to chime in. So I think the majority of cautiousness we have for it was in Europe, and also down in what we told you in the PI business, in the food segments, where we see customers not releasing purchases as fast as we had expected. Again, there's good engagement for sales teams. We have launched a great fleet of new products, also mid-range products that help us to get to access to new market segments.

But the whole conversion from opportunity to final sale still takes longer than we expected and that's part of what we're hearing in the European market. Otherwise, I think that, as we said, it's not a big change. Do you want to do anything else? No? Okay.

Yeah, very good question, Brandon, thanks for that. Service, again, I'm super excited about our service opportunity. And by the way, it's also an organization that we continue to invest in throughout 2023 while we had to make some adjustments in other areas. We continue to invest in service because we see a big opportunity out there. Broadening our service portfolio, there's good demand from our customers. We have a large install base. Last year, if you said it, we grew 10%, and we expected to grow in a mid-single-digit range this year again. So another year where you will see services growing ahead of products.

We continue to work with our sales teams to make sure that they can sell services at a point of sales, train them about the value of services, that they make sure they have value proposition when they talk to customers, increasing the connect rates and of course, these are different from product category to better product category, but we continue to make improvements there and I still see a lot of opportunity for us moving forward to increase our share of services

