Paul Sarvadi
Insperity, Inc. (NSP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I really don't see that as an issue kind of in any way, shape or form. Obviously, a part of our success penalty is companies moving to a different technology solution and this stems that tied in a huge way or -- and at least for sure delays it for a significant length of time. And as I mentioned in the script, even if at some point if they do want their own instance, we're more than happy to make sure that that's the correct move for them. But in the future, we'll be able to provide services to that company. It will just change our relationship with them. They'll still be a customer for life, customer of ours provided they want us to provide the enablement and deployment services and ongoing support and they possibly maybe want other HR services as well that they've been using with us. So, this definitely extends that retention in a dramatic way.

No, when they go on this new solution, it actually increases our revenues. So, we have our customers now, in fact, we'll be going out to our customer base explaining this the new solution that's coming, help them figure out the comparison between what they're using today and what they have the potential to use. And we will prioritize who will be in the queue to be moving from one service to the other. But when someone goes from our current service to the new service, it will increase revenues and retain the business.

I'd love to have that conversation specifically. but between our two partners, we want to have it locked down. let's realize this is a significant development effort. To do something late this year would be a crazy possibility. Another year after that, that would be highly more likely. So, somewhere in between is the most likely, but we're going to lock that down.

That's a great question also. Workday has an incredible financial services offering in the marketplace as well. That is very perfectly integrated with the HCM solution. We have talked about the long term. I think both of our companies believe that the smaller firms that fit the target market for our new solution are also very, very good candidates for their other solution. But we got to crawl before we walk. We got to -- we want to get this one right launched and especially deployed, and enabled properly, because that is a huge competitive advantage and a disruptor, provided we get that right. We bring on our customers today with our implementation team. It takes two months or less to bring on large clients. Bringing them on is more like adding the thousand employees to our system than it is like doing a full implementation of a new technology.

As you know, since you just said you have been involved in that, typically it takes a year or more to plan and then -- and also a significant amount of time to actually configure it's an 18-month or more process to go onto what we'll be offering. And our goal is what we've learned from how we do it and how the system works, how we're going to build this interface between the two to make it work well. We want to be able to bring those customers on for a lot less of capital cost, a lot less time, a lot less complexity and similar to how we bring on customers now. that is powerful and I believe will make an incredible the incredible benefit to the target market.

Yes. I could tell you that I've had this on my mind for a number of years, many years. But I waited for the right time to have this conversation at the very highest level of workday. And what I waited for was for us to be in a position to be absolutely ready for us to become a client for our 4,300-employee company. And I have to say that my first phone call to them was, I think back in late October, early November, another couple phone calls. We had our first face-to-face meeting in the middle of December. But we had -- we already had work groups that worked issues about feasibility before we even had that mid-December meeting. at that meeting, it was obvious the cultural connection and fit, and the potential advantage to both firms, and even more so both companies with the customer focus to understand what a powerful solution we could provide for these underserved companies in this space.

And from that day forward, it has been 24/7 to get to the point, where we know we can do this, and we have worked through and even ended up signing an agreement. It's been an incredible thing. And it does, as you mentioned it is a powerful new starting point for what I believe has been an incredible run already for Insperity. We're a great company with a great business model, great foundation, but what this really does is leverage the strengths of both companies in a powerful way for clients. What that means to me as a founder, as a large investor of this company, this guy's the limit here. And I'm sorry, I'm being hit a little bit dramatic here, but this is so powerful and I'm -- I can't wait to work on it day by day to get us where it can take us.

No, I do believe it does expand the market for both firms, both sides of company. But what's really interesting also is that both of these companies are premium brands in their space. And the target customer, not only fits a demographic profile, of course, theirs is at the high end of the -- or at the larger companies. Ours is the smaller companies in the middle is the target for this joint solution. But oh man, I lost my thought. What did I say? What's that? Oh, but yes, so the demographic profile is not the end of the game. What's really interesting is the psychographic profile of our target market, the way we both go to market and who we're trying to target as our customers. That psychographic profile is also a tight fit. So, we are both premium services and this we believe is going to be the preeminent solution in the space. And so again, this does -- this expands the target market for both firms.

That's a good question. also now, keep in mind I mentioned in the remarks that our current system, which involves what we call AIMS, which is our PEO enterprise system and then what we call Premier, which is the client-facing component. Both of those that we have today is what serves all of our customers. But in the future, we expect many of our smallest customers and the small end of our client base, that solution will continue to be for them. I'm not saying that could never have some interaction in this -- the way we are planning this new solution, but for the foreseeable future, we should think of that entire system being continuing on the way it is for the smaller end of our client base and for all the base until we have the new solution launched.

However, I think over the long run, it also means that if you look at our development, for example, on the client facing, we have a huge list of what we would like to add. but no matter how long we spend doing it, we would never catch up to Workday's solution. And so what will happen is we will be able to divert resources once this is out there, we'll have some resources on the joint solution and our -- but our resources that can be diverted back or more staying focused on our other solutions. I do think it's going to much more efficient for us and allow us to not have to continually be chasing that those features and functionality.

Some of those questions we're going to be thinking through and talking through with our clients, with our prospects to further lock down some of these. And I'm sure we'll be addressing some of that feedback at our investor-analyst day in May. But I can tell you that the four companies that for whichever reason the size that they are now, or their growth rate, even if they're down to in the 100-employee range, but they are destined to be larger. those customers will have an opportunity to have Workforce Optimization at a new level with Workday HCM as the client facing technology. And what happens for those clients is they will literally get the best of both worlds. They get the leading technology and the leading HR service experience in one package, and that optimizes their ability to their likelihood, degree and speed of success.

So, I think that's the way they'll see it is a powerful combination. So, but the other thing they will be weighing out is if there's someone who wants and knows their need more technology to have a more effective people strategy, they will be able to see that going this way for a smaller firm, many times the capital commitment, the ongoing expense and the length of time to get there.

And this is important to understand some, many times companies that are smaller don't literally have the HR expertise to even envision how they want to configure their solution most effectively. And so a lot of times it misses the mark for the company. In our case, we will be bringing that expertise to the table in a fashion, where they won't have near the upfront cost, won't have the same level of ongoing subscription type costs. And because again, this is, remember we're embedding Workday into our PEO solution. and so our subscription fees are based on the quantity we have and we're able to build that into our pricing with an appropriate markup for our part of what we're delivering here in that new solution.

So, that pricing will also be embedded in the total service fee. So, that customer gets to be on this, on a Workday solution, a lot earlier, more affordably and more quickly. Now, they also though there may be a day, because we are preconfiguring a lot of the system to be able to bring people on fast, there's going to be quite a bit of customization from configuring for specific clients, who will be more like tenants on this instance of Workday.

But they won't have the full flexibility and there may be other things they need in the future. So, when customers get to that point, we believe we'll be helping them get onto their own instance of Workday and continuing to be able to serve them after in many cases. But that we want what's right for the customer and we have that happen now only it happens sooner than it will in the future, and we're not involved in it and don't have a chance to maintain a relationship with the customer. Does that help you on those questions, Jeff?

Well, once again, I just want to say how much we appreciate everybody joining us today. As I said at the beginning, it's a monumental day for us and we're just excited about the potential to elevate the trajectory of our company driving long-term growth, profitability, and of course, value creation for all of us. So, thank you for participating today. We look forward to our next quarterly update to give you more discussion of the milestones and also the Investor-Analyst Day, which will happen in the last half of May. Thank you, again.