Paul Reilly
Raymond James Financial, Inc. (RJF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. Well, that's a good question. I think that, first, the attrition still stayed around 1%, that's slightly up from last year but it's in the same ballpark, kind of rounding. So, we're happy to see that given the market has been very, very competitive. If you look at industry data, advisor movement is down about 15% industry-wide, if you believe the data. But what we're seeing in terms -- what we're not seeing in number of advisors we're seeing in size of team. So, just last month, we added a bank platform with $3 billion in assets, 27 advisors. And when we look at the backlog, especially in the last two months, the number of teams that are generating $10 million to $20 million of revenue, we've never had so many come through at once.

So, that has been a really big pickup that's -- and the pipeline, not saying we're going to close them all, but we've never had this many at one time where we're down to the final negotiating line, as well as people that have committed we haven't announced. So, it's been a pickup from a little slower activity, but I would say that, between last year and this year, it's just last year was larger teams at the end, this year it's just significant number of very large teams that are in the pipeline.

Yes, the near-term NII guide factors in very modest loan growth, just given the environment still being pretty -- in terms of the demand being pretty muted, particularly on the corporate side now. But we were pleased to see the growth during the quarter. And a lot of it was driven by securities-based loans and residential mortgages. And while we expect mortgage volume to decelerate, given much higher rates now, we are optimistic about the securities-based loan portfolio in both Raymond James Bank and TriState as we look forward over the next 12 months. And that's based on two factors. The first is the repayments of those balances have really stabilized, as you would expect, accelerated significantly as rates were rising, almost doubling in some cases over the last 12 months. And so, that has stabilized. And we are starting to see new origination. And on the TriState Capital side, a lot of benefit from what they call transitions, or essentially existing clients bringing on and recruiting new advisors. So, we are optimistic about that portfolio going forward over the next 12 months.

Hey, Steve.

I think our better performance than many peers is really just a reflection of our long-term focus on kind of maintaining a flexible approach that's focused on giving clients as much FDIC insurance as possible. And you see that with the growth and enhanced savings program balances, which give us more flexibility in that dry powder that effectively puts more sweep balances with third-party banks as we await growth of the Bank's balance sheet as Paul discussed earlier. And that in that dynamic, as you point out, Steve is absolutely correct.

The banks, the demand from third-party banks is only increasing by the week and as contracts renew, we are able to renew at more favorable terms. So, that played a role, bigger picture of what really played a role was us just maintaining that sort of long-term flexible approach to managing the balance sheet and offering clients as much FDIC coverage as we possibly can to our various products.

When you say the advisor payout, are you referring to the quarterly fee billings or what have you…

Got it. Yes, so we were down as a couple of days ago, $600 million, but this does bounce around from day-to-day. I mean, we had a $200 million positive day, yesterday, so at quarter-end we have $500 million. So, the balances are at numbers, we're not used to high and low coming in and out. But the enhanced savings program is up probably $200 million to $300 million so far this month. And so, the net and the offset to that would obviously be the sweep balances, which frankly are doing much better than we would have expected given that we had the quarterly fee billings earlier this month as well. So, net-net cash to be down 500 to 600. When you add those two components, considering the $1.2 billion of quarterly fee billings, we're pretty pleased with our situation right now. But again, it's day to day can change today or tomorrow. So, we're going to monitor it closely.

Important thing for us, I mean just not on earnings, but the fact that we have so much money to third-party bank. So, we could use if we wanted to. And we really haven't been borrowing. So, we have a lot of comfort to be able to go ahead and still have all the flexibility we need. But there has been the mix change with ESP with higher deposit costs. That's what you've been seeing net-net.

Thanks, Steve.

Yes, I think we just sort of covered the growth and enhanced savings program balance for us, I mean in terms of the deposit cost, that is the biggest factor because that those costs somewhere around 5%. And so, to the extent that the mix of the total client cash balances shift to those Enhanced Saving Program balances, you're picking up probably 350 or so, 3.5 percentage points of cost effectively. So, I would say that's probably the biggest factor and the higher deposit costs.

And why you saw the NIM really contract sequentially was largely due to us intentionally growing the higher cost deposits. But again, a lot of that is geography. Because effectively what we have done is raised the higher cost deposits of the Bank segment to that and savings program, and then essentially shifted more of the lower cost sweep balances to third-party banks. And so, that shows the NIM at the Bank segment, contracting sequentially, but you see the corresponding benefit to the firm with third-party fees, which shows up in the PCG segment. And that's why, as Steve pointed out, we were able to generate better than expected and better than industry trends, at least on the sequential basis.

I think that the growth has been great, we're over 10% now of our assets in the RCS division. When we first probably opened it, we had a bigger movement of internal people who wanted to go just switched platform, which again as part of the noise and advisor count, when the advisors moved from our employer independent division, we count them as advisors. And once we're in the RCS, they're not registered. They're RIAs. So, they're one firm, right? So, we dropped them out of the advisor count, so but the assets have stayed and I think the proof point in that is the growth, D&A and assets, which I think for the year, and for the quarter have been above most of the players in the market.

The speed and the recruiting outside has picked up to now that we've gotten the platform much more robust and increased the technology significantly. Hopefully the long-term growth will come from the outside. But we do have people here if they want to operate in the RIA format. They're welcome to switch affiliation options. But that has slowed down over the last couple of years from the initial opening of it or more people came over.

I don't think anyone can really tell you exactly when cash sorting will fully stabilize across the industry. I know a lot of firms have been trying to convince you of that for the last 12 to 18 months, but we've been trying to be pretty transparent with you guys. And so, what we have said in the last three months, at least is that we feel like we're closer to the end of the sorting dynamic than the beginning. And you sort of are seeing that in the numbers. But we're not going to sort of declare an end to that dynamic until we have several months of data to support that.

But to your point, longer-term, we are excited about the position that we're in now with a strong capital position, with the $16 billion, almost as cash with third-party banks. That gives us a lot of dry powder to really grow the balance sheet when the attractive opportunities come. And we think we'll be in a position of strength there because not a lot of other firms in our space will have the capital and funding to pursue that attractive growth. So, we're in a great position. Again, it's a reflection of that long-term client focus, the flexible balance sheet that we've always strived to maintain even when being criticized for it over the last few years, but it puts us in a pretty good position now.

For last quarter, the macro had a bigger impact than it did this quarter. It wasn't a big macro outlook change this quarter. That's right.

Well, a couple of things. First at our $78 billion and 1% growth, it's going to take a lot of time to hit a hundred. And I think people forget that one of the big jumps in our assets is because of the TriState acquisition. We have no plans to acquire another bank. In fact, it took us five years of looking to acquire TriState, which was the perfect fit to joining the family. But we're not looking for another banking franchise. Almost anything else we do doesn't significantly drive our asset size. So, we think we've got a certainly I'd say 5 year, you have to cross and then you get a year to comply. So, and it could be much longer. So, I -- most of all the rules as you cited, there was a 100 billion. And so, I think we have time to do that.

Now, having said that, we're already internally doing studies on the impact of reporting requirements, the capital requirements, the technology everything that's going to be impacted and the regulatory expectations, which do change, when you cross a 100 billion, so we have both inside and outside how we've been hiring some people, and this is kind of 5 years in advance. So, we're not -- we're not taking it for granted. We know we'll grow, but as you said, almost a 100 billion became the old 500 billion before they changed the rule and then 250 billion. So, it has brought a lot of those rules down for significantly higher heavy -- higher lift. But I think right now that's in the future for us, so always.

Thankful. That's a good clarification, because we still expect to grow the bank loan portfolio, so but it's just as being funded on balance sheet and off balance sheets.

I think if you look at acquiring capital markets businesses, or fixed income businesses, or asset management businesses really don't significantly impact our asset size. So, what would really impact is acquiring a bank because you're acquiring balance sheet. Those businesses, especially the M&A, fixed income, like even today we operate. When Morgan Keegan joined us seven or eight years ago, we had a beta of inventory database and inventory today, we have less, we've operated well under the inventory. So, I don't -- we think there's a lot of room to acquire a lot of business, those businesses in that space, without really altering trajectory and talked about $200 billion, it's the banking side that impacts the balance sheet, really. That's not our focus.

So, first, I appreciate the time. It's been really outside the kind of a regulatory charge, it would have been a really outstanding quarter that still is a very good quarter. And so, we're focused still going into an uncertain market. But we've always been in our business have outperformed because of our capital and cash. And especially in down markets, be nice to be enough capital markets and interest rates to come in and then it'll be kind of an easy year, but we always assume we have to work for it every year. Market is competitive. So, we're just doing what we've done. We've been managing expenses. A lot of people say what are you going to do to manage expenses? We have been doing that especially over the last few quarters. And plan to continue to do that until, we can see growth to support those.

So, appreciate you joining the call and all the time you spent with us, and we'll talk to you soon.
