Perry Sook
Nexstar Media Group, Inc. (NXST) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. I think we're still on track and as Michael said, in the next couple of years and whether that's exactly Q4 of 2025 or with the writer's strike that kind of moves into the first part of 2026 I think is irrelevant. We are adding value, creating value there with the growth in audience, beating our competitors head to head upon occasion. I mean, those are all things that we hope to do. And again, adding sports on the weekends meaningfully impacts our CW stations that reach about 40% of the country because that's a day part that they weren't competing for sports cost per points or with live programming. So it's all good. We don't really factor that into our analysis how we're doing at the local stations. But there's been meaningful upside there in terms of local sales of the national sports product that we put on the CW.

As it relates to the peaks and valleys, I mean, obviously Nexstar, the NASCAR will come in in 2025, which will increase our payments for programming. But you'll also see in 2025 a continued offset of our decrease in commitments to entertainment programming. So we think that you'll see program expense relative -- in total, be relatively static. And I don't know, Mike, if you have anything else you'd like to add to that?

I think Mike was pretty clear in his commentary as in terms of kind of both the growth and net retrans guide here. There are puts and takes. We'll lap ourselves on DirecTV. The partner states are back on DISH. We budget for attrition pretty aggressively. And so that's embedded in our guide. And so I think to parse it much more than that. It might be interesting but I'm not sure really meaningful, because we're one company and all of these factors work together to get to the number that's embedded in what we talked about.

If you have specific questions we can, I guess decide whether we want to answer them or not. But I think that what both Mike and I had said already are pretty descriptive as to how we think about it. But is there anything in particular that's on your mind?

Yeah, I just want to run one company here and I know what our results are like and we were very pleased with where we ended up with our negotiations and our rate increases continue to outpace the pace of cord cutting to deliver the net and gross increases that we have talked about on the call. And so all I can tell you is we're able to achieve that. Whether others can or not is quite frankly not my concern. We hope everybody does well and the ecosystem continues to prosper.

We think that the whole Disney charter discussion that validated the value of local broadcast stations because they were never at issue. And as you know most franchise agreements for traditional MVPDs require the local stations to be carried and if we elect retrans require that they be paid to remain carried, and then everybody else that once a competitive program offering is going to have to provide the same services.

So we actually think that validated the -- our place in the ecosystem, which is at the top of the food chain and then also the discussion about the new sports JV if that truly does bring more people into the pay TV universe in some way shape or form and we have the ability to opt-in and be paid to be a part of that offering that's good too. If on the margin that's incremental subscriber growth and we're all for it.

Just the one deal that I think we've given a lot of visibility to our station in Los Angeles and our Southern California stations have put together a package of LA Clippers games basketball with Steve Ballmer organization. And that we're in our second year of that and I -- we just renewed the deal for another year or two. And I can tell you that it is profitable to us. It's depending on the year a total package of approximately 15 games plus or minus and depending on how many preseason games we decide we want to put into that package. But the arrangement is profitable for our flagship station for those games KTLA, as well as the affiliate stations throughout Southern and Central California.

Well, I think that you have to understand that our agreements are more new launched even than that. Even where we have what you might consider to be fixed arrangements, maybe there are collars around the bandwidth of both growth and contraction and there are all kinds of elements that go into baking the cake with each of our network we're on. As Michael said, I mean they are multifaceted, they are very complex, take a long time to negotiate. And money isn't always the only thing we talk about.

So I don't want to speculate on our business relationship with any one network or any number of networks. And Michael, if you want to add any more to that, but there's a lot of pieces to that. I think that what we are -- what we have said consistently is we pay you for programming and exclusivity of that program. And to the extent the program is becoming less exclusive, it is less valuable to us, and we potentially will pay you less over time. And what form that takes, I think, would be to be determined. But there are dynamic discussions happening in real time. And I would just say that everyone at the table is aware of what's going on in the industry and that the sands are shifting under our feet. And there is sensitivity to that all around the table. Michael, I don't know if you have anything you want to add?

Jim, I will endeavor to cover that. If I miss something, let me know. As it relates to the repeat factor, we do repeat our primetime talk an opinion shows overnight, they actually do pretty well on the West Coast were watching those in primetime in real time. And so the cume of that audience is something that's useful for sales.

The only other thing we repeat is on Sunday nights and Saturday nights, when we're in live news and early prime on the East Coast, we repeat that broadcast basically for the West Coast, immediately thereafter. But the rest of the programming is all original. And as we expand we see really no difference – no different pattern as to what we plan to do there. And we will be 24/7 with news programming here literally ahead of schedule in 2024 and earlier in the year than we had originally anticipated.

As it relates to the demo, the audience for cable news, the audience for television in general, SKUs generally older, linear television and we're no exception to that. The primary pocket of audience that we're focused on is the 35 to 64 demographics slightly older than 25, 54. We're trying to bring advertisers along to that. We also think the two-plus audience is of value to some advertisers and we report that number as well.

As it relates to the skewing of the audience to the electric. We have said, since the founding of this that, we thought the biggest swim lane in America were those people that were not on the lunatic left or the lunatic right, which is about 60% of America that we can agree on more than we disagree on. And our job is just building awareness. We started the network with a pretty substantial pre-launch publicity campaign. We launched with a 10% or 11% awareness of NewsNation. That awareness is now up to a number in the mid-30s, but that still means that, roughly, 60% of the country we still need to introduce ourselves to the viewer.

Distribution is not the issue, it is because we now are -- we are fully distributed and have a larger distribution base than MSNBC, again, for a network that is less than four years old in its current form. So it's all about building awareness for our product and getting people to change their habits and come to us. And we see these green shoots of, nights where we are, competitive with and, in fact, beat our more established competitors. We just need more of those and it's a process.

I'm very pleased with the progress we've made. We're ahead of schedule on where I thought we would be in pivoting this network to news from general entertainment. Thank God that we did because, that is, what people are interested in watching and not so much the general entertainment networks that, as in basic cable are in free fall. So from our perspective, it was an opportunistic pivot made at absolutely the right time. And like I said, we're ahead of schedule in terms of all the growth metrics that I look at, but it is a -- this is a long-term build and long-term value creation play that we are financing organically, with the program expense, underwriting the journalism expense as we continue to complete this pivot.

I'll speak to the last question first, and then let Mike speak more to advertising. But I would just say we buy things and we build things. If you look at the company, the stations drive our network that we own today and distribution uses all of that to gain distribution as well as distribution revenue for the entire portfolio. It's kind of like one building block on another.

In theory, we could own a big four broadcast network in addition to the CW. I think we would say, never say never, but it would have to be like everything else we've ever bought an actionable transaction at a value that would make sense for us. So I think I would just leave it go at that, but we would not have an allergic reaction to having that discussion.

But again, it would have to be the same kind of opportunistic acquisition that we have made in the 27-year history of the company. And the new entrants into the ad market are have tiny audiences at this point. And so they're not really a factor. I would just say that we're in some phase of a recession here. And whether we have a soft landing a hard landing a hockey stick recovery or whatever and advertising is generally a leading economic indicator and that is weighing more heavily on the market than any of these new entrants from my perspective. Michael, do you want to add some color?

Thank you very much operator. Just to close out our business fundamentals our financial track record and our free cash flow generation continue to remain strong, and we're confident that our capital allocation strategy will continue to drive industry-leading returns for our shareholders in 2024 and beyond. Thanks very much for joining us everyone. We look forward to speaking with you again in three months' time when we report our first quarter 2024 results. Have a good day.