Peter Huntsman
Huntsman Corporation (HUN) Q1 2024 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, I think that, again, you're going to continue to see a gradual improvement throughout the first quarter, both in pricing and in volume. When I look at it on a prior year basis, I would imagine we'll probably be seeing an improvement in the first quarter, again, just looking at order patterns today and so forth. Probably around mid-single digit sort of growth. And that's going to be pretty much across the board.

We're looking for growth to take place as we've seen the cessation of deinventoring in North America around housing and construction. And in China, we continue to see a bit of a rebound in construction, but mostly in automotive and mostly as we look at infrastructure projects. And in Europe, well, I think we'll just see a continued gradual recovery across the board in Europe.

Well, I think MDI, I've not seen anything structurally that has changed in MDI. This is a mid- to upper teen sort of business during its normalized basis. And when you see MDI capacity utilization, usually somewhere in the mid- to upper 80s, particularly the upper 80s, pushing 90% you're going to see pricing power. I think the industry today globally is somewhere in the low 80% capacity utilization with a little bit of an improvement over what we've seen in previous quarters.

I remind you that the last quarter, we were talking about global operating rates being probably in the mid [indiscernible] so we are seeing a bit of an uptake there. And -- but we need to see sustainability. Again, last year, at this time, we were talking about a stronger second half of the year and so forth. And I think that what's going to be important this time or this year is that we just see a long steady recovery in volume and allowing us to recover the pricing as well. And I would say that across the board in virtually all of our products, not just MDI.

No, I don't think that we've seen any impact from BLR rationalization. I mean, in our case, we're seeing a little bit of fluctuation in order patterns on aerospace and so forth. But I wouldn't say that any of those are really material trends. A lot of that's just going to be timing on year-end inventory and as you look at something like aerospace or and automotive, how many parts are in the OEM supply chain or car companies shifting from EVs to hybrids to ICE. And yeah, that will cause some disruption on a quarterly basis. But I don't see anything in advanced materials that would give me any concern about order patterns or sales.

No, no. And I would just remind you go throughout saying we didn't have anything to do. I mean our products and so for that had nothing to do with that manufacturing problem going at. So no, I don't -- as we look at it overall, we don't see any impact in the first quarter because of that.

Yeah. That's 100 -- I'd remind you, it's 130,000 tons of volume, roughly 250 million pounds. And so we're looking at that sort of volume being a relatively small percent increase in the overall scheme of things.

I would just say, too, that as we look at restarting that, it does take you time to restart an asset like this probably could take as long as throughout the entire quarter going into the second quarter. Second quarter is usually a pretty strong demand for OSB, CWP, insulation, our building materials. And just because we're operating in that line, it doesn't mean that we're going to put all 130,000 tons into the market on day one. That will gradually be fed into the market as a market needs and so forth. But we looking at today's order patterns, what we're hearing from our customers and so forth, we feel that we need to start that asset up.

No, we're not seeing any issues today on that. What noise, I would remind you that we're supplying our customers then supply Boeing or in some cases, our customers supply an OEM that supplies Boeing. And what impact that may have if Boeing were to slow down production and so forth. We may not feel it for a quarter or two. But no, I don’t see any reason today. We’re certainly not seeing anything that would impact that.

I think that as we look at -- we kind of look at the three regions. I think that as we look at the U.S. housing market, I think that a recovery in housing to be at that 1.5 to 1.7 kind of where we were just a few years ago, which I think is still well below the 2 million level that people are saying is kind of a sustainable rate.

If we look at housing, that recovery of housing. And I think, again, it's -- what was really painful over the last year and half was the deinventory that took place. It wasn't necessarily a housing drop to 900,000 units or something like we saw during the Great Recession. It was a massive amount of deinventory that took place and how much inventory within the system when that the inventory started.

So I think in North America, it's going to be a lot around housing. I think that as we look at Europe, it's going to be -- excuse me, as we look to Asia, it's going to be around continued pull that in automotive, for us, both ICE and particularly EV have been very strong end markets for us in urethanes in China. China continues to improve as we have pointed out in the last couple of quarters that it would. But we're certainly not seeing from an overall macro point of view. The 5%, 6% growth that we've seen in past years. So I think that's going to be important.

And then Europe, I think Europe is going through, particularly in Germany, something of a deindustrialization right now. And I think Europe needs to find incentive courses to -- do they want to continue this insanity that they're going through or do they want to really have policies and priorities that are going to encourage manufacturing and where they're going to be going in that area.

But Europe for us in building materials, insulation, lightweighting, automotive and so forth, those are -- some of those are doing fairly well right now. We're seeing a gradual recovery in automobiles and so forth, insulation, but we need to see more coming out of Europe.

So again, I think all of those indicators are going in the right direction right now gradually some faster than others. We just need to see it sustainably keep moving in that area.

I'm sorry, the ramp of earnings in Q1, Q2 for the entire company?

Again, I think that, that will be a factor of what we see in continued growth and pricing discipline largely across the board. But we would assume that as we continue to see an improvement in demand and improvement in pricing, that we'll see an improvement in earnings as well.

Well, I'd like to say that we have that much control in pricing for the entire year and that we have that good of forecasting. But as we look at -- and I'm focused right now as to how Q1 is ending and how Q2 is going to be starting. And as I look right now at some of the broader indicators, Europe were out with a price increase effective March 1 of €250. These are public announcements of €250 a ton Chinese -- on the post New Year's, which ended just this past week, we've seen a pretty strong demand, both in volume and in pricing that's been publicly reported of around $150 a ton. In the U.S. will be pushing for $400 a ton price improvement in HBS now in our Huntsman Building Solutions.

We also have some formula pricing in the U.S., and we'll be pushing for other price increases as well that are not public. So across the board. Now A lot of that's going to be setting the last couple of days. We've seen benzene continue to be quite volatile. And we've got to make sure that our prices stay above the wave of raw material price movements. But by and large, we're finishing first quarter in a much stronger position than we started first quarter on a pricing basis. And I would say that, again, some of that improvement, that optimism, I talked about in my prepared remarks at the very beginning, literally, we've seen that really starting to come just in the last couple of days. We see some of the actions that have taken place in China and so forth.

So again, some good optimism going into the second quarter. I feel like it feels we've got the wind in our sales. But again, we've -- unfortunately, we've --

Yeah. Pardon?

I think we'd always be happy to see fewer imports and more just as a rule of thumb. So yeah, I think that would be the case, yeah.

I believe it's going to just be a continued growth in demand, stability in raw material prices and discipline and finished product pricing. It's just getting back to the basic fundamentals. A little bit of restocking would also help. I think that inventories are very low. And throughout polyurethanes as well, we'll be completing our cost savings program throughout 2024. So we'll see some of the benefits that have fall to the bottom line.

I'm sorry, the destocking around what?

Yeah. I think we’re - we feel that most of the destocking - at least what we’re seeing in our men’s products we’re not that exposed to agricultural products and chemicals. So I don’t want to comment on anything on the Ag side more just out of - we’re just not exposed that much there. So I really don’t track that. But with most of our amines, as we look again, as we look at the volume improvements that we’re seeing quarter-on-quarter I think that we’ve seen the vast majority of the destocking that’s taking place there has come to an end.

Yeah. I think that we need to just continue to look at the entire portfolio. I think that we'd be a real disservice to our shareholders if we said that we want to stay exactly what we are today forever. And as we look at those areas of the business that are particularly impacted by higher energy costs in Europe, I think that we need to step back and we need to ask ourselves, how do we structure those businesses for the next five or 10 years or next 20 years, where we're going to be in a competitive position.

The markets have changed quite a bit in the last couple of years when it comes to pricing dynamics when it comes to geopolitical shifts and energy policies and so forth. And I think we've got to continuously ask ourselves -- are we best positioned to own these assets? Are they in the right places? Do we have the right supply agreements or even partnerships and see where we go from there. But again, I would -- I think it -- I think the wrong move, we came in 1 morning and said everything is perfect. And there's no need to look -- if we could trade some of our assets.

And obviously, I'm not going to get into which of those assets may be. But if you could trade some of those assets for less volatile, higher-margin assets, I know that's a lot easier said than done. But I think we probably have approved some of that over the last couple of years as we've divested of our textile effects in TiO2 and some of the more commoditized intermediate chemicals and so forth, oxides and glycols and so forth. We bought assets that have been put into our advanced materials, our downstream urethane spray foam businesses. We look at those sort of changes. I'd like to see that going forward.

Yeah. I'm not sure that my view necessarily have changed all that much. I always get a little bit leery when you go into Chinese New Year because it seems like you come out of it and you're either off to the races or it seems like things shift -- the New Year's ends and things just remain target.

That's kind of what we've seen over the last two years or so, China is struggling through COVID and then a rather lethargic recovery in the last year. I see them coming out of this new year, just in the last week. And again, I don't want to base a whole year on a week of demand and pricing and so forth. But I think what we're seeing in market conditions in real time, Kevin, is we're seeing a better rebound, if you will, after the Chinese New Year than we've seen over the last two or three years. And this is kind of the China that we were used to a couple of years ago.

So again, I'm not saying these guys have changed drastically, but I do think that the pickup that we're seeing in our particular business on EVs. And as we look at some of the demand that is picking up in China, in particular, it feels like it's real and it continues to see a gradual steady improvement.

Yeah. I think that as we look at Performance Products, we continue to see a gradual recovery in the construction markets, that's going to be an improvement from anhydride and the unsaturated polyester resin chain as you kind of move downstream into North America. We'll see a volume will be higher in our men's products as well. And that goes into everything from spray foam and we're seeing prices are stable to improving in this business.

So yeah, I think, again, Performance Products are going to see a gradual improvement. And I hope that, that builds momentum throughout the year.

Well, again, some of the broader things that we're seeing in China, I would just say that we're seeing around $150 a ton improvement. China, unlike Europe and the U.S. will set a price out. China moves really almost on a daily basis, on your base and more commoditized polyurethanes, your downstream urethane blends and more differentiated urethanes are usually going to follow that macro movement in pricing. But as we see pricing today in China, we see that up around $150 a ton improvement over what we've seen in the past couple of weeks.

And as we go to Europe, again, we're out with a $250 a ton improvement in Europe. And again, when I say that, that's not to say that you take all of our volume and put $250 a ton of that. Some of that will be effective March 1. Some of it will be a little bit later than that. Some of it, depending on contracts and so forth and in place, maybe more, maybe less than that $250 directionally, that's where we see pricing going in the European market. And that's obviously is very much needed, particularly in the European market.

In the U.S. market, again, we're seeing a number of areas with the splitter that we have in place, we see kind of more of a fragmented base in Europe. We sell a lot internally down through the Huntsman Building Solutions. We have a bunch of our product that's on pricing formulations and so forth. We were able to pass through raw material volatility and increases. And we have some that are just on stand-alone contracts with prices that we negotiated on a quarterly or monthly basis.

But we are pushing for a broad price increase on the North American market as well in MDI.

Well, the 30-ton facility, which would be the largest facility of its type is producing the carbon nanotube product. This will be the largest facility in the world. We believe we have a very competitive cost basis. And the key to this is the lower you can get the cost, the more applications you can get into. We're presently working right now with everything from concrete to car tires, EV batteries and in structural products. Right now, we're able to sell as much as we're able to make of the product, but the product right now to cover the cost of going to very high-end applications into satellites and NASA applications and so forth.

As you come up with larger scale capacities, we're going to be able to widen the product availability, the value and the number of applications that go into. The next phase of that expansion will be taking place next year. We believe that we'll be starting up the 30-ton reactor. We'll be starting it before sometime in the middle part of this year. And we feel that we should have sufficient data from that to initiate the larger expansion, which will be in 2025.

At that point, I think that we're -- that next expansion really is what I would consider to be a commercial size reactor that if you want to go larger than that, you're just putting in multiple reactors of that size. So really coming, I think, to the end of the next year or two of being able to see the product being able to qualify the material and then being able to mass produce the material at economics that should make this a very -- hopefully, a very successful add-on to the rest of the business.

Yeah. I think that as we look at the amount of restocking that is taking place, I believe that when we go back and we look at where the markets were a little over a year ago, we were having a very difficult time fulfilling customer orders. And I think customers, when we started to work through the bottlenecks, customers have very high inventories of our product in their supply chains. And I think that was really across the board, we had trouble getting blowing agents and for our building solutions, our spray foam. We had trouble producing enough in means.

When you saw that the boom ringing effect of the economy post-COVID. I think that there was -- the supply chains built up too much inventory and there was a concern that there wasn't going to be enough production that wasn't going to be the logistics were not in place and pricing was going to go through the roof. And a lot of our customers almost across the board whether it was an oriented strand board or particle boards or insulation materials, amines, whatever. I think they built unnecessarily large amounts of inventory.

Now when the markets turned, I think that it turned certainly more suddenly and took longer to de-inventory than all of us anticipated or maybe some of us didn't anticipated the sort of a drawdown. I don't think so. I mean, I would look across the entire chemical industry. We all hit about the same magnitude at the same time. Maybe off a quarter here and there.

Now does the market bounce back at the same magnitude that it came down, I don't believe that it does because I don't think most people today are worried about where they're going to be getting product next quarter, they're seeing prices gradually improving. They're seeing there's plenty of capacity out there. Demand isn't going through the roof. And so I think that the recovery of the restocking is going to be gradual, it's going to be throughout the year. And it's not going to take place as fast. I wish it would to some degree.

But then again, if it did, Frank, as you know, there'll be a tremendous amount of volatility. If we saw the restocking take place as fast as the destocking prices margins would go back up and probably collapse just as much. So I hope that there's a little more reason that reasoning that goes into this restocking. I think it's going to be gradual, and it's going to be throughout the year.

Well, I think that you'll see the impact of that throughout the second quarter, a little bit at the end of the first quarter. As you see, again, it's not necessarily natural gas, but it's the hydrogen it's the CEO that is made from natural gas to hydrogen. And obviously, it's a raw material for our utilities and our boilers and so forth. And that will -- some of that will be in real time -- some of it will be in pricing and the impact that will be in the next quarter. So again, it's great to see these low prices. I wish we saw the same sort of drop in the European markets. Europe is still about five times higher in its cost today, but it’s natural gas and obviously, China is more based on coal than it is natural gas. That’s usually pretty stable and pretty low.

Yeah. I would just say that when we talk about the improvement in our free cash flow, I'll let Phil quite interest to make a comment here. But when we talk about the incentive pay, I didn't say that we would be cutting incentive paid to help cash flow. I said that our incentive pay would be tied to the generation of cash flow. So I hope that came out clearly. This is the highest portion of our incentive pay for senior managers this year is going to be on achieving our cash flow targets and objectives.

Yeah. And I would just say, when we look at on a normalized basis, that 40% free cash flow conversion rate, I would still say that's where this company ought to be doing a normalized economic period. I don't see that number haven't changed.
Yeah. Let's remember that the time from permitting to purchasing, to building inventory the impact of that entire supply chain is not an instantaneous issue. And companies today are looking at where they're going to be in second quarter and in some cases, third quarter, they're looking at what the demand is going to be and projected to be. We'll see things like mortgage rates will have an impact on how much inventory and pre-buying OSB and installation customers will be doing.

So there are a lot of variables. But again, as we look at it, if we step back and we look at it from a macro point of view, from what we're hearing from our customers, the early indications that we're seeing our indication internally as Tony said, it's time to restart our line in Geismar and gradually start bringing that into the market. And we believe that’s going to be needed to satisfy demand. So that should tell you as much of our view going forward.

Yeah. I would just remind you that we had our facility down earlier in the year, so we talked about where we were a year ago and where we were even a quarter ago. It's pretty easy comps to beat. So I'd like to think that Europe is expanding GDP 6% per quarter. It's going to continue like that. But again, there's -- I think there's some fundamental issues around Europe on the broader economic perspective when you look at energy and industrial policy. But as we look at our customer base in Europe, we don't see it getting any worse. We see, if anything, there's perhaps a building tendency for restocking. And as we look at our facility there, it's running well. And we're continuing to see stability and gradual improvement there.

And hopefully, effective March 1 here, we'll be successful in price increases.

Well, it's -- I mean just going around the world, the lowest-cost producers globally right now are in China. And you've got low energy costs in China with the amount of coal that's being consumed and the coal-based economy largely. And that's going to be where you've got the largest newest facilities, and so you're going to have the lowest cost coming out of China.

Second on that cost curve is going to be the U.S. I believe our positioning in the U.S. is that -- I'm not going to sit here and say that we are the lowest cost producer in North America, but I would be surprised if anybody is lower than us. I don't know the exact economics of our competition. But I think between our reliability and the size of our facility and so forth, we would be among the lowest cost producers in North America. And I would say that when I look at the profitability in North America, while it's improving, these are not long-term sustainable margins. We need to see better market conditions, pricing and demand.

And then when I go to Europe, Europe is one cold winter or one sold pipeline or on import terminal problem away from an energy spike as we saw in the summer before Putin's invasion as we saw in the winter of Putin's invasions, we've seen since then where energy prices can spike up 5, 10 times in a very short period of time.

So Europe needs to figure out what their energy policy is going to be and it have an economy of that size based on the means of propulsion that Columbus used 700 years ago is insane. And they've got to figure out what they're going to do from an energy point of view and from an industrial point of view. And whether they can do to compete. When you look at the margins over the last two years, in particular, I think that I publicly have said it if I haven't, then I should, we haven't made we haven't made strong cash flow out of Europe in almost two years. That's unacceptable, and it's unsustainable.

So if we're in that position, even if our competition, I believe, again, in Europe, we may not be the lowest, but I bet we're very close to the lowest cost producer. There's no way that an MDI company is operating a European market economics today and says we're making a strong return on capital, and we're proud of what we're doing today.

Europe, just -- so yeah, Hassan, I’m happy to where the direction that the markets are going, demand is picking up, pricing is picking up. I don’t mean to get on tire here, but we’ve got a long way to go, and there’s a lot of work that needs to be done. I think we’re heading in the right direction. But I still - Europe probably ask me more worried than the U.S. and Asia.

Yeah. When we talk about the $400 a ton, I will just remind you that's what we're shooting for in our HPS business. So we take our own MDI internally, we transfer it to HBS, we price at market and then we sell that to customers. And we're seeing -- we've been public. And I only want to talk about price increases that we have that are public.

As we think about what the trade is saying versus what we're saying, well, the difference -- you asked what the difference is between those one sells paper and one sells product. And we sell product. And so I can only comment on what we're seeing, what our customers are seeing, the feedback we get from our customers and reality on pricing.

Trade publications, I think, are a good snapshot on the macro basis. But I wouldn't say right now that MDI in the U.S. is long and sloppy in pricing. I'd say it's that were the case, we wouldn't be shooting for the price increases in pushing for the price increases that we are. And I apologize, I forgot the latter part of your question.

I'd be reticent to throw out a margin number because I know whatever I say, I'm either going to be too high or too low. But I do think that we'll be moving throughout the year, hopefully, again, unless we see a massive amount of restocking that happens very suddenly, which I'm not anticipating, but I think that we're going to see a gradual improvement throughout the year.

And I hope that we finished the year much closer to our normalized levels of EBITDA than when we started the year. I know that's a superfluous answer, but I think at this point, again, we've got the results of January and just simply too early in the year to make a year prediction.

Thank you. Operator, I think we'll take one more question. We're nearing the top of the hour and assuming anybody else is with us.

Yeah. I would just say, Laurence, and I hope I don't get ahead of myself in saying this that we do run the risk. If we were to look at selling a big chunk of the business today without the acquisition of something else, we run the risk of getting too small here. And I think that's not something that we want to entertain either. But that shouldn't preclude us from doing something big if we can replace it with something big and continue to shift and change the portfolio.

I think again, I publicly have said if you go back and look at the history of Huntsman, every five years, at least, there's been a major addition, a major divestiture, something that is has fundamentally changed that I believe has made us a stronger company, whether it's a sale going back 15 years ago of our base chemicals businesses 10 years ago of our TiO2 and some of our the basic pieces and so forth and more recently in the last five years of our intermediates and textile effects. And I think that at the same time, being able to buy the right assets to replace those or if we can't find the right assets, we're going to return cash as we did this last year with the sale of the textile fax business. We're going to return cash to shareholders.
