Peter Quigley
Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Joe, we're continuously finding new ways to reach talent. Social media is obviously a key component of that, but not the only one. Our revised geo structure that we've announced for our P&I segment is designed to establish a greater personal connection for those individuals that want to contact with a person and our Kelly Now app is designed to connect with more people over a broader geographic area for those people that prefer to do something electronically. So we're continuously exploring new ways in all of our businesses. And I think the improvement in fill rates in our Education segment is a great example of how we've been successful.

Yes, Joe. So I think in prior conversations, I've avoided trying to get into the head of prospective investors. So -- but what I would say is, I think based on our conversations with investors and potential investors, the improvements that we made last year are going to be a wake-up call that we're on a different trajectory than what we have been for the past 20 years. Obviously, we have to deliver those results, but entering the year at a 3% net margin versus our past 20-year average of about 2%, I think, is a major step in that direction. I think our focus on growth, our growth in the past several years, even longer than that, has been relatively flat.

So it's a combination of net margin improvement and top line growth that is behind the transformation that we initiated last year. And I think that the fact that we're now a more disciplined focused company, given the portfolio revisions that we've made will be a simpler to understand business from many investors. And I think as we deliver the financial results, we'll begin to attract more attention and engage more potential shareholders in interest in being along on our journey.

Well, clearly, as Olivier was talking about comps, the comps get more and more difficult for education, which has had a very good run. But the business is operating extremely well both with existing customers as well as generating interest from new school districts, both large and small. We've seen a steady improvement in fill rates in many of the school districts, which is very positive. We've seen improvements in pay rates. Those last 2 items, the bill rates and pay rates do have a sort of a natural ceiling. But other than that, the fact is the business is responding to a dynamic in the market or there's not enough instructors in classrooms. And we have demonstrated that we're the best in the business at filling those instructor positions. So we think the future is very bright for education.

Well, as we've discussed, Kevin, in 2023, we delivered significant improvements in our SG&A through efficiency gains and pivoted to focus on growth later in 2023. The time it takes for those to materialize and show up is a little bit longer than the SG&A benefits that we saw. But we're anticipating that sometime in the second quarter, the steps that we've taken to grow our market share within our large enterprise customers, we'll begin to take hold. And we're approaching a very significant portion of our revenue through that program, and we think there's opportunity for revenue growth, again, starting sometime in the second quarter.

Yes. I think it's more the former than the latter. We're not going to -- we're going to continue to be very disciplined in terms of what we pay for properties, and we're going to be looking for the kinds of high-quality, high-growth properties that we demonstrated, that we've found in the past. And so that's where we're going to spend our money. The pipeline is still not what it was in the post-pandemic period. There's deal flow, but the quality is still not as good as we like it to be. But we're not just relying on active sales were proactively evaluating and engaging companies that we think would be a positive addition to the Kelly portfolio.

Yes. I think the big damper right now continues to be interest rate environment and the participation of certain investor communities. But I think as that either stabilizes or we actually get into a rate reduction environment, that money is going to come off the sidelines and companies that might be in the part of their cycle that they want to enter into an exit transaction, we'll see greater deal flow. Based on the folks we talk to, we're not in a permanent state of low-quality M&A properties, it's just that the current environment for the past year or so has been not conducive to a lot of companies coming on the market. .

And our OCG business is going to continue to operate globally.

Well, we're focusing, as I've said previously, in science, engineering, technology, and telecom, and our education practice, others would be opportunistic. And we think that because of the size of the technology staffing market in the U.S. and North America that that's a very fertile area to continue to pursue. We think it would be an excellent complement to the acquisition we made in soft world. So that we will continue to focus on science engineering technology and telecom and think that there's historically been enough deal flow that when things ease up a little bit that we will begin to see the kinds of high-quality assets that we'd be looking for.

I don't think anything of consequence that I would point to, Marc. I think there are pockets where there are pricing challenges due to the competitive landscape and the decline in demand in certain areas. But I think, historically have demonstrated that we're able to navigate through that. And also get price where the environment calls for it and the labor market continues to be tight. So while demand hasn't necessarily -- we haven't seen it show up in demand yet, as the macroeconomic conditions improve, large and small enterprises are going to continue to struggle finding people in that is something that they'll often turn to Kelly to help them with.
Yes. So we're spending a lot of time talking with customers about AI. I would say there is activity, but it's still very early innings in that game. But we're not waiting. So we're using AI in a lot of our operations particularly to improve the productivity of our recruiters and salespeople, and we have used AI and other parts of our operations as well as in technology that we have that customers face off with and use like our Helix analytics portal and Helix UX in our OCG practice. But it's still Kelly operated. It's not a customer-driven activity right now.

But there are a lot of conversations, a lot of interest. We have launched a program to connect customers who have demand for experts in the AI space, Kelly Arc program or platform. And we've got customers who are on that platform because they're looking for talent that can help them with their internal AI. But all of this is still relatively small and early relative to other technologies and solutions.

Okay. Kailey, thank you very much.
