Phil Yeager
Hub Group, Inc. (HUBG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, as I said, Scott, I think obviously there's a bit of a tailwind here from the acquisition we just completed in December from a revenue basis. We're anticipating some sequential improvement in intermodal volumes. We saw that show up in January despite some weather issues. But to Kevin's point, operating margin percentage being relatively consistent with Q4 on the adjusted basis and then the tax headwind, are really kind of the big things to call on.

Yes, yes, right.

Yes, this is Phil. I would say it's a tailwind. Our new structure has certainly helped us through this more challenging environment, with the structure that moves up and down, obviously with some of the challenges we've seen in the market. It does have a bit of a lagging effect and I think that's important to call out. So as we see more stabilized pricing in the broader market, as well as an inflection positive, you'll see more flow through for Hub.

I think Brian mentioned some really good things we're doing on the other side of the cost in implementing our new chassis program in the West. I think in Q4 we saw drayage costs down 25% on a cost per drayage basis. So we're doing a really nice job there and then we're very focused on layering in growth that will help really drive down our cost structure as well.

Yes, and I think headcount will stay relatively similar. We're going to have obviously merit-based increases, some increase in incentive compensation in Q1 and then, gain on sale will be a little bit of a headwind Q4 to Q1 as well.

Sure. So I think what we've shown over this past year, is the logistics margins are going to be relatively more stable. We think that there is upside within that as we see the brokerage market normalize, but we didn't really want to place a bet, on exactly when that's going to occur. With an IPS, I think, we've also stated that it's going to have some lower lows, but also some higher highs and a little bit more fluctuation.

We're currently in the lower end of that. I believe that that's going to sequentially improve throughout the year. So, I don't believe that we're at a structurally lower operating margin going forward, but we're certainly navigating through some more challenging market conditions, and wanted to be conservative in our approach.

One item that we didn't include in the guidance, is any share of purchases. Obviously, we have a $250 million authorization, which could be upside and will be opportunistic within that around capital deployment.

Yes. This is Phil. So from a container perspective, we have around 20% that's currently stacked. We're in the process of actually unstacking, as we've seen some momentum here. Brian mentioned some of the positive signs we've seen December to January, and that's actually pre some significant startups that, we have over the next couple of weeks. So there's some unstacking.

We think that'll come down sequentially throughout the quarter. But given the amount that, we have stacked as well as the improvement, and utilization that we can drive, we don't see any need, to add any additional containers at this point. It's obviously going to drive some pretty significant free cash flow generation for the year. On the cost side, and I'll let Brian and Kevin jump in here.

We've done a really nice job on managing our overhead expenses, our headcount down 15% on a year-over-year basis. And we'll be thoughtful around hiring and returning to growth there, but want to make sure that we're remaining diligent as we've done a very nice job in resetting our cost structure for the current environment. I think we've also done a really nice job as well around reducing cost drayage and improving our purchasing.

I mentioned that was down 25% year-over-year in the fourth quarter. We'll see that trend continue not only as we insource more and get more productivity out of our drivers, but we're also going to continue to be very diligent around third-party drainage costs. And then Brian also mentioned our new chassis agreement in the West. That's going to be very helpful from a margin perspective.

And we'll start to see that really show up in the second quarter. It'll be kind of radically rolled out throughout the first quarter and start to show up there. And the last piece I would just highlight is rail costs. We'll likely see some benefits sequentially as we head through Q1 as well as into Q2.

That's a little unclear to me. I don't know exactly at this point. I would say 15% is probably a good measure. But I think our goal is to get improved utilization at the same time, right. We're really focusing on balance and trying to win the right business that fits our network. And so a little tough for me to say exactly.

We might have some temporary imbalances where we increase repositioning costs, or we make a decision to stack or to unstack, because we think the volume is going to be there longer term. Those are things we're weighing on a more tactical perspective. But - it's a little difficult to say, but I would say likely you're talking about 15%, or maybe a little bit under that.

Yes. Kevin mentioned, I think when you look at ITS, volume is likely going to be down again year-over-year in Q1, be up in Q2, and then accelerate as we have both new wins coming on, but also lower comparables in Q3 and Q4. I think around that as well, we would certainly hope that in that 31% that's coming out to bid in Q3. And we're getting positive price, which would be incremental.

And then certainly we hope if there's any normal seasonality in Q3 and Q4, you'd see some sort of surcharge revenue that's coming in there, as well that would certainly be upside to our revenue projections. I think the other piece that is built in there is onboarding within our Logistics segment that, we have good visibility to as well as the Final Mile acquisition is adding some significant revenue as well. So, those components together really are leading to the revenue guide. Kevin or Brian, anything you'd add?

Sure. I'd say it's a competitive market, but we're very focused on our network needs and really driving that velocity and productivity and converting business from over the road. That's actually what we're probably seeing in the majority of our wins within the shorter length of haul, which might be a negative mixed impact to our revenue per load, as the year progresses.

But I think at the same time, it's a positive for velocity and balance. So, while it's competitive, we're not going to unstack containers unless we're getting a return on that. And we still have a long way to go to get our fleet to running optimally and at the utilization levels that they should be.

So there's capacity available even on the street today, but we also want to make sure we have ample capacity to support new onboarding, make sure that those are seamless and that we're serving our customers appropriately as well.

Sure. And focusing on our incumbency, we are seeing slightly down renewals, I would say. And then what we're really trying to do is ensure that we're getting growth that is consistent with our network needs that help drive that balance, help reduce costs, and really spread our fixed costs a little bit more effectively.

Yes, maybe I can try to take it again. It's slightly down price in the current bid process, which is at 41% and 18% that are here in the first half, right? So that's what we assumed on those renewals. And then we assumed slightly up on the Q3, Q4. And as we bring that on, we would hope we would be hopeful that we are growing volumes during all of those bids. And that is what we are seeing currently right now.

If you talk about the 41% that is currently in bid, we are seeing we're locking in our incumbency at that slightly down level, but then we're adding incremental volume, which as has a significant flow through for us. And that's been the approach thus far. Obviously, we want the market to assist us. We want to see us, there is some stabilization in the spot market. We haven't seen that necessarily translate into contract rates yet.

But we're certainly hopeful we see the market really solidify, start to move upwards. And as you know, price is a large flow through for us and will certainly be as the market enables us, to be going after rate as well.

And I would just highlight, I think we based that on discussions with a lot of our customers who are having some concerns around the East Coast labor challenges that may be existing as we enter what is typically retail peak shipping season. And so, I do think you'll see a little bit more diversification back to West Coast ports.

Yes, I think we're using the most recent winter weather disruption as a rebound in service. That was very quick as a proof point for a lot of our customers. And I think a lot of many of our customers are thinking about how they want to lock in capacity right now as well, and that there likely will be an inflection, at some point this year.

I don't think anybody's calling a change in the market. And that's not really built into our guidance. But we're certainly hopeful that we're seeing the positive trends that will lead to that.

Yes, I think the cost both, the dynamic rail contract that we have will help allow for that, Bascome, as well as our insourcing of the drayage and the new chassis agreement all should help be able to allow for hitting that low end of the guidance.

Sure, Brady. I think actually similar to what we've been talking about with ITS. It's going to start off a little lower than we would certainly like it just due to lower transactional volume. The spot market and the brokerage pricing right now is a tough headwind to battle. But we're expecting that to increase as our contractual rates on the truck market improve. And also as the Final Mile integration that happens, we have a lot of upside there as well to help with the DOI of the logistics segment.

Yes. Obviously, the highest growth rate would be in the Final Mile just given the incremental revenues there. I would say following that would be managed trans because we have some locked-in wins that are starting up actually in February. So we're excited about that. Brokerage, we didn't assume a massive amount of growth just given we don't know exactly how the market is going to look.

And then with the consolidation, we said things would be a little bit more muted, but maybe just some organic growth in overall volume and velocity. So not anything massive, but actually up year-over-year.

Thank you. Thanks Brady.

Yes. This is Phil. We are very focused on, once again, finding the right business that's going to fit our network. But yes, we are very focused on returning to growth. As we mentioned, we don't think Q1 is going to be a positive year-over-year volume growth, but that will improve on growth rates as we go through the year. One is low comparables in the back half. So that's certainly an aspect of it.

But at the same time, it's discussions with our clients around incremental wins that we're actually receiving and then their forecast for the year as well. And with the service levels we're providing, we're winning a lot of awards and positioning ourselves to really take advantage of the market upswing here. And so it's a mix of comparables, confirmed wins and then discussions with our customers around, how they see their supply chains adapting throughout the year.

We're targeting track. I think we're winning a lot of short-haul business right now. Sometimes it's more challenging to tell exactly where it comes from. But I think our main target is truck.

Yes. So we're able to really open the door with any customer based on our intermodal capabilities and our service reputation. I think that's certainly our way in. Once we're there, it's about finding the right solution for what their supply chain requires, it could be anything from something as simple as transactional brokerage to a consolidation program to a full outsource or just managing their LTL.

We find that our managed transportation capabilities, we can come in with - especially given the inflation that has been taking place in the LTL market with what we can do with consolidation and managing their LTL spend as a very sticky and strong service offering. But when we combine that with our warehousing capabilities, it becomes even stickier, as Brian mentioned. So it really does depend on the customer and their specific supply chain.

But when I think about where we're at now, I think we have the right set of capabilities. It's about building specialization and scale within them and finding the right cultural fit that will help us continue to drive that growth. So I think you'll see us continue to be active in non-asset logistics M&A, but also be very thoughtful around our approach in adding to those core capabilities that we've developed.

Yes. So, we're not ready to publish any new targets. Certainly we're very focused on the 2025 targets we've set. We have some work to do on the revenue side, but I think our guidance shows that where we think we'll be is relatively consistent and we'll have the opportunity to achieve that target.

We operated this year and the prior year within and above the range on operating margin. I think our guidance is also within the range, obviously. And we think that with a positive inflection in the market, we'll be well within that. So certainly, our focus is on achieving both of them, and we think both are doable.

Yes. Yes. I think our customers are looking for service. They're looking for consistency. They're obviously looking for cost savings and they're looking to ensure that they have available capacity when the market does inflect. And I think Intermodal is a great solution for all of that.

And as Brian mentioned earlier, when inventory stabilize, there's more of an opportunity to extend those transits, which also opens up more intermodal opportunities. So all of that leads to some of that shorter length of haul, which we're seeing right now start to flip over.

Thank you.

Yes, it was down 21%. A couple of things to reference there was we had a fuel headwind as well as overlapping accessorial and over $5 million of surcharge revenue from last year. So I think along with that, I've mentioned earlier, you're going to continue to see a little bit of a mix impact as we bring on more, shorter length of haul business. And that obviously impacted us in the fourth quarter as well.

Yes. Yes, we have. Absolutely. We've changed our entire pricing organization and philosophy to be able to adjust to that. We have a new Chief Marketing Officer who is doing an excellent job and making sure that we are winning in the market and able to price to win, and that's what we've been doing thus far. So yes, we've made some significant changes within the organization and to our approach and feel as though it's working.

And last point I'd just add, this is Phil. I think right now it's the time frame where we launch that volume last year, right? So we are in the process of capturing that, which is why we laid out in the guide that we were going to be down in Q1, but then start to see year-over-year growth.

Yes. No. Still, yes, we do have a strong pipeline. We're very focused on kind of those core non-asset logistics areas adding scale and specialization that, bring higher margin profile. And yes, we're continuing to look for opportunities. We want to be thoughtful. Obviously priority one is being successful in getting back to growth in intermodal as well as a successful integration of the Final Mile acquisition. So those are the top two, but then certainly out looking for more. And as you mentioned, we have a significant capacity to do so.

Thank you.

Great. Well, thank you for joining our call this evening. As always, if you have any questions, Kevin, Brian and I are available. And we hope you have a great evening. Thank you again.