Phillippe Lord
Meritage Homes Corporation (MTH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think what's happening to our stock price today would make us interested in buying some more shares right now.

It's two different environments. Last year, we were coming out of a huge spike in rates and it was the first-time rates had spiked in a long time. So, there was definitely -- buyers were really not accustomed to that. So, I think this time around as rates elevated in the fourth quarter, buyers were much more accustomed to it. And as we roll into the spring right now, it doesn't feel like we're convincing buyers that it's a good time to buy. They already feel like it's a good time to buy. It's just about connecting them with the right home.

So, I'd say buyer psychology feels a little bit different. I would also just say nothing is happening right now in January that we didn't expect. During the fourth quarter when rates were elevated, we were still selling houses and it just felt seasonal to us frankly. In an elevated rate environment, we knew we had the tools to help people get into the payments through our rate buy downs.

So, January is off to a great start. We kind of expected it to be off to a great start. And I think buyers are just, at this point accustomed to a higher rate environment and they're also accustomed to the fact that they're not going to find product on the existing home market and they're coming to the new home communities to buy a home.

And this is Phillippe. Just to amplify, our mindset around pace versus price has changed. We used to think how do we balance those two out. Now it's pace and pace and price if we can get it. So we're always focused on the incremental pace. We're going to drive the volume, the market share in our business, our manufacturing operating model, and then -- when we can get price and margin too, we'll take it. We've been operating in three years of unprecedented conditions and we've been able to get both. But at the end of the day, it's not balancing the two out. It's getting pace. And then if we can get margin on top of pace, we're going to go get it.

Yes. I mean, obviously, we bought a tremendous amount of land this year and a lot of that land starts to come on in 2025.

No, you got that right. Yes, we're modeling incentives more that exist in our current backlog that were mostly December sales as we've rolled into January.

No, it's not, there's nothing about the pace of specs. In fact, we'll probably ramp-up our spec starts pace in the back half of this year because we'll have community count growth. It's just the absorption pace that we're assuming throughout the balance of the year around four a month is really driving the total guide for closings for the year. In order to increase that, we would have to assume a higher absorption pace than what we're currently getting in the market. So, if it's not about we -- would have to sell every spec we started throughout the entire year for the most part to get to that number and it's more -- the guide is being driven by the absorption pace range that we set for our forecast.

I mean, it's really going to be lower this year because we're ramping up our business. We're putting a lot of land on our books and that land doesn't come to the market until 2025. So, that's really the drag. As the earnings go up and our growth goes up in 2025 and beyond, we think we can get that back above 20% long-term. So, it's really a point in time because we didn't buy land the back half of the year and then we've ramped up our land spend and spend almost $2 billion this year and a lot of those communities aren't going to come to the market until back half of this year and 2025.

I would say it's kind of stable. Everything sort of changed coming out of COVID. The cities have moved very, very slowly. It takes much longer to get your plans through plan checks. The land development is taking longer as well. There's more regulation there. So it all changed out of COVID. We used to believe that we could get lots on the ground in 12 to 18 months and now it's 18 months to two years depending on the market. And it hasn't changed for a while. That's kind of what we run our forecast out at. We usually are fairly conservative when we buy new land. We assume closer to two years versus 18 months. And if things go faster than that, they go faster than that. I'd say it's really sticky. We haven't seen cities become more efficient as it relates to getting land and titles and getting our development agreements approved. And frankly, we haven't seen the developers, be able to move any faster as well. So it's kind of right there, that's the assumption and it's not getting any worse, but it's not getting any better.

I think it's really about what we are doing, right? Ever since we've pivot our strategy and now, we're really focused on our spec strategy. In order to compete with the existing home market, it's all about having products that consumers can move in on the same timeline. A lot of folks buy existing homes because they can move in on their timeline and when you buy a new home, you have to work on the builder's timeline. So what we've done is we've increased our specs, we've increased our move-in ready inventory, so that we can stay in that consideration set when people are shopping for existing homes and time doesn't become a factor. Now it's just literally about location and price.

So, we're seeing -- it's what we've done and we believe as the existing home market pause out if rates were to drop and this lockout effect turns around, that will stay in that consideration set because we have move-in ready inventory.

Thank you, operator. I'd like to thank everyone who joined this call today for your continued interest in Meritage Homes. We hope you have a great rest of your day and a great weekend. Thank you very much.