Prahlad Singh
Revvity, Inc. (RVTY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Jack. ‘23 certainly did not play out as we or others had envisioned it. But I think it was good to see that in the fourth quarter, while the environment remained challenging, for the first time in ‘23, it did not deteriorate more than what we had anticipated. I mean I’d say as we look forward into ‘24, including here in the first quarter, we are not anticipating any sort of meaningful or significant improvement. But I would say rather more of a continuation of current trends. So things do start to pick up. I would say that, I would expect that to provide more upside to the current outlook. So, somewhat where we are is more of a temporary holding pattern before demands comes back. But I'm optimistic that, we are perhaps what we are experiencing currently is more of a drove. As far as we go, I think, one of the things that do help us is the portfolio transformation journey that we have gone through.

If you look at our portfolio now, we have more Diagnostic than our peers, we've got less of a capital intensive business now than our peers, we've got a meaningful software business. And this differentiation allows us to have the confidence that we are in a pretty decent spot.

Yes, good morning, Matt. Great question. I think the whole journey that we have gone through on our portfolio transformation was indeed to fill the gaps that we had in our portfolio. And if you recall two years ago, it was primarily a small molecule portfolio in preclinical research and differentiation -- preclinical research and development. I mean, the whole concept of what we went through our acquisition journey was to fill the gaps in our portfolio around large molecules, biomolecules, cell and gene therapy. And I think, the synergies that we have started seeing from the Horizon, Sirion, Biolegend and Nexcelom acquisition is on the biomolecule side of the table. So I think we feel very good where we are. And if you add the software component that allows us more differentiation, we feel very good with the portfolio that we have. Will the other additions that we will continue to make? Absolutely. But I think we feel very good with the portfolio that we have built.

Yes, Josh, I think and I mentioned that during one of the healthcare conferences earlier in January our example with one of our most important customers that we talked about in the pharma side is how we are able to leverage our relationship both in the Diagnostic and the Life Sciences side of the portfolio to not only license technology to them, but also provide the tools and capabilities and our service offering from the DX side that allows for being part of the journey of drug development for our important customers all the way from preclinical research and licensing them the technology, providing them the tools and capabilities that allows them to use and leverage that technology towards drug development and then being part of the journey with them through their development process as they take it through the regulatory approval processes and then further on leveraging our global lab infrastructure from the Omic side of the business to be able to follow up those patients both for efficacy of the drug and for follow ups.

So that sort of allows us initially when we were on the small molecule side in Life Sciences, our focus was on providing them the reagents and tools and instruments and pre in vivo imaging components to just do their research. Now, with the full expansion of our portfolio, it allows us to be with them from the start to when it gets to commercialization.

Yes, Patrick, I think nothing's changed in our view regarding China and that level of confidence is because of the portfolio differentiation. I mean this is where I think it really comes down to a good understanding of the markets and the segments where we play in that market And if you just look at the portfolio that we have built out over there. In terms of Life Sciences side, I think on the instrumentation side, we will continue to see some pressure which is not very different from the other global markets. But I think on the reagents side, we will continue to see it coming back. On the immunodiagnostic side, I think excluding the impact of what Max talked about for a small legacy business that helps us improve profitability, it is going to be on a continued growth trajectory.

Newborn screening is going to get impacted, but we've got quite a few of our reagents that are awaiting an MPA approval, and hopefully they will compensate for the pressure that we will see from the birth rate decline. So overall, I think it again comes back to the differentiation of our portfolio in China and outside of China. The lower, it sort of risk mitigates our portfolio, both the exposure to the Diagnostics, Life Sciences and the Software market, which sort of in the longer run is going to be the competitive advantage that we will have.

Yes. Andrew, I mean, as we mentioned, it we just rolled it out in mid-December. So it's early days of the MVP and we are seeing good traction on it from a customer flow perspective. The OUS launch is expected to be out in the early part of the second quarter. So I would say it's four to five months ahead of schedule. It is still early days, and looks promising. I think over the longer term, the benefit that we get out of it is not just synergies of being able to offer a comprehensive portfolio to our customers on a common platform, but obviously the synergistic opportunities that you get from a cost perspective or an OpEx perspective. So we are very excited about what we are hearing and seeing, but early days is the best way I would frame it for now.

Yes, I think as we talked about, from a Q4 to a Q1 perspective, a lot of it is obviously the comps that we had from last year. So it is more an impact of that than anything else. And I think as Max laid out the cadence of the calendar for the year, there is nothing outside of that, that I would say. We do have some pressure from reproductive health, especially in China. And on the instrument side, we will see some impact of that. But more than anything else, it is just timing, is where I would allocate it to the impact that we see on Q1 versus anything else.

Dan, I think, again, as I talked about earlier, it is the differentiate portfolio of the high end Euroimmun test that we have in China that allows us to be in the face of limited competition that we see in that marketplace. And that has innovation pipeline has worked for us and we expect that to continue as we look forward.

Yes, Dan. I think on the instrument side or on the capital side, I think we will continue to see some pressure or at least the current trend we expected to continue in the first half of the year. The benefit again that allows us is that the reagent side of the portfolio, once that starts stabilizing and coming up in the second half of the year, at least that's what the assumption that we have in our current forecast allows us the confidence that we would look. Overall, as we see pharma, I continue to believe that this is a temporary drove in the marketplace and I think it will continue, it will come back to what we have seen is normal pattern of mid-single digit growth in the market over the past several years.

Yes, I'm not. Good morning, Eve. I don't think I'm going to quantify as to what's the dollar amount of how much synergies we are saying. The intent of what we provided as an example is how we are starting to see not just commercial synergies from the full portfolio, but also operational and technological synergies. I think as Max said, I would say we are still in the early to mid-innings of the opportunities that we see from integration of the acquisitions. Keep in mind, two of our acquisitions, BioLegend and Euroimmun are two of our strongest and fastest growing businesses.

And then I think the opportunities that they provide are crown jewels in our portfolio and we expect them to continue to perform well. Our intent is how do we support those businesses and how do we leverage the opportunities that we see across the portfolio with them.

Yes, and Luke, in the longer term, it definitely helps us increase revenue and reduce our volatility for that business, which I think is another one of the opportunities that the software business provides us from a differentiation perspective.
