Rafael Santana
Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation (WAB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Justin.

Thanks.

Matt, a couple of things. First, the fundamentals for the business are strong. We have the coverage. We have the orders to execute here. The portfolio is well-positioned to provide customers with fairly a significant payback. Fleets are old. And we're still coming out of a trough in terms of customers' investments, India fleets. There's also significant drivers globally. International, as you've heard, is very strong, which drives demand not just on the locomotive front, but if you think about mining, transit, digital and the overall freight. Emissions, as you know, emission regulation is a tailwind for us. We have continued to expand our visibility with really improved backlog coverage, which goes beyond '24, and that really positions us well to deliver ahead of our long-term guidance.

With that being said, our guidance takes into consideration a number of factors. If you think about '24, you still have North America carloads continues to be on the low end. We expect parkings to continue to go up, and freight car build is actually down. With that, our approach has consistently ensured really a strong say/do ratio with results ahead of our commitments, and we continue to be committed to overdeliver.

So, let me just be clear here. Our backlog is strong. We feel good about it. The pipeline of opportunities show it, as I said, the strongest pipeline we've looked at in the last five years. And despite of some of the dynamics here, we just described to you in North America with carloads, and so forth, we're continuing to see really customers investing for cost, investing for reliability, and we continue to see both an element of growth both for us in North America and international. You're going to have variation here, as John described, quarter-to-quarter, but we're continuing to look at profitable growth as we go in '24, and most importantly, I think we've got a stronger element of international here that really provides us visibility now into '25, '26, and '27.

Thank you.

Hi, Jerry.

Yes. So, Jerry, last November, CARB petitioned the EPA for a waiver and supports for regulation for in-use locomotives. EPA has not responded to California's waiver request, and the ruling became effective beginning of this year. In one hand, I'd say the outcome of the rule remains fluid, but we are technically very well-positioned to support our customers here for all outcomes. We have the best-in-class products, lowest fuel consumption, lowest emission, best reliability, best availability, and regardless of further regulation what I'll tell you the good news is, our entire installed base will be able to burn bio and renewable fuels.

But what's more exciting to me is, our newer fleets, they will ultimately go beyond bio and renewable fuel. We firmly believe we can bridge customers here to their ultimate near-zero emission goals. We are aggressively testing alternative fuels, hydrogen being part of that mix in our newer internal combustion engines, and with really an eye towards enabling customer sustainability journey, and in parallel, we're integrating batteries, and ultimately hybrid systems into our fleet. So, we have not incorporated regulatory change into our guidance. So, that would be a tailwind for us.

Hey, Rob. Our customers invest for returns at the end of the day. So, it's just really comes down to making sure as they look into their fleets, they've got really the opportunity here to continue to drive costs down, to drive reliability up, and improve service levels, and I think that continues. When I look at that investment, of course, we're coming from trough levels here in the past. We have growth coming into '23. We have still significant growth in '24, and the recent order that you just referred to, it just gives us greater visibility into really continue to grow market. I think we still have, I think, an opportunity to grow here as we get closer here to what I'll call average replacement rates with really the older fleets we've had.

I think some of the elements on what customers decide to invest in could be shaped here certainly by regulation, but most importantly, I think, it's going to get shaped by some of the elements of technology that we're introducing, that allows faster payback, a greater payback, and greater flexibility to really, I'll call, ultimately bridge customers here into a lower emissions environment, and that's how we look at it.

Good morning, Scott.

So, strong growth here going to '24, and, Scott, with greater visibility ahead. On your question on battery electric, we're continuing to make progress here. In the fourth quarter, as you know, we unveiled the first heavy-haul battery electric locomotive with over 7 megawatts of power. These units will start running this year in Australia. And on that, I think fuel continues to be a one of the biggest cost for customers. There's a continued focus here on driving efficiency. We've got a number of pilots and demo projects, and while we do not expect broad adoption of these, there's going to be some really key opportunities here that we're ready to work on and support customers on.

Thank you.

Good morning, Allison.

Yes. So number one, I think during the quarter, I think in one side, while we saw higher demand from international, when you think about PTC, on-board locomotive, digital mine, we saw really a softer demand here, which is continuing with US, driven by really discretionary OpEx and the commuter signaling business. What I'd say is the pipeline of opportunities remains strong, driven primarily by international and also by digital mining solutions. I'd say recurring revenues in short-term convertibility continues to be a focus area for the group.

But I think what's more exciting here, something we announced in the fourth quarter, which is really tied to us entering the railcar telematics market. We are creating a platform here with proven technology, and this is a market of 1.6 million freight cars. It is a multi-billion dollar opportunity for us, one that we will be providing real-time data to railcar, and tank car owners. And we're -- opportunities like this will keep propelling growth and profitable growth for this business.

Thank you.

Yeah. When you think of revenue side, I think you heard me describing stronger international pipeline, which I think, ultimately, wants to reflect stronger growth internationally as we look especially beyond '24 in that regard. So, we see a strong pipeline of deals, some of them signed last year. We'll see a part of those converting into backlog this year, which will continue to signal really the strength that we've got longer term in the business.

I think with regards to specific margins, I mean, this is really project-by-project driven, as John described. I think there is an element of still headwinds just associated with pace in which we grow both the new locomotive business, but also the mods business at a rate -- at a growth rate faster than the overall company.

So, a couple of things. I mean, we will have variation here to quarter-to-quarter. Just reflecting last four quarters, I mean, we have quarters on low-single digits, we have quarters on double digits. And I think you're going to see some of that variation. How we run the business is making sure that we've got that convertibility built out 12 months out, 18 months out, and we got to really think about the lead times we've got associated with our products. So, it's making sure that we have that coverage.

If you think in specific about '24, I think, there's some elements of coverage, especially for the flow products that really need to -- really be executed through the year. And if you keep in mind, you've got things like the freight car build, which is down. So, you do have some elements here that play out through the year. But bottom line is, we feel strong about both the coverage, and about the ability here to continue to drive profitable growth with the pipeline we have.

Thank you.

So, what we described was carloads being, I'll call it, to some extent muted for the year. That has, of course, been included into our guidance. What I think you have that more than offsets this is the continued opportunity here for customers to really invest for returns, it's really by driving productivity, lowering costs, replacing, in some cases, three units for two units, and I think those dynamics remain in place and remain in place not just for '24 as you see reflected here by the orders that we just got. We think, at least from a fleet perspective and parkings, service levels have really -- the focus on service levels has really kept the active fleets relatively stable, and we would expect us to continue to be -- have a favorable market dynamics for North America included.

We have significant growth in '24, we have significant growth in '25, and we have an opportunity here to utilize that installed -- that manufacturing footprint to export outside of Kazakhstan, and I think that's a significant element here. On the top of this, just had some really strong returns for us.

Steve, it's, I think, a challenge here. Might have, again, variation as we go through it, but they're strong. They're strong, both strong, and a lot of it really internationally driven and beyond '24.

We won't get into the specifics or guiding for Transit or for Freight. What I'll tell you, on Transit, the fundamentals for the business continue to be strong, book-to-bill ratio closed over 1 for the year. While we are pleased with the progress, we continue to do significant work here to simplify the footprint. This business will deliver on margin expansion in '24. Integration 2.0 is a significant contributor to that. But we will continue to have variation quarter-to-quarter, driven by really mix and timing of project.
