Ralph Andretta
Bread Financial Holdings, Inc. (BFH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Vincent it’s Ralph. I think the thing to remember is, we have a really seasoned team here that has been through Card Act and has managed through that and managed to return to profitability. So that’s what we are going to do. We are going to focus on what it takes to return to profitability. It’s going to take a little bit of time. We thought it was important today to kind of put it down, the worst case scenario out there, but we are really focused on closing the gap over time and we have been working on it since February of 2023.

Yeah. And when you think about the actions, it will -- yeah, when you think about pricing actions, some of those require partner agreement. So Val Greer and her team have been very active in working with each partner, meeting with them all, trying to figure out what the right solution is for them, should this rule go into effect.

And so part of it is you need to have the rule actually come out with the final parameters, and then each partner will work with our team to figure out what’s the right level for them to work through this.

I mean, it could be promotional fees for some partners. They are not having to change pricing. Others are going to want to lean in harder on APRs and some may want to give up some royalties to make sure we still underwrite deeper. There’s going to be credit actions that are taken.

So all the things that we have talked about, all the different levers are going to be in play and it’s really going to be partner dependent, product dependent in terms of what that will look like. So it’s hard to nail that down with a lot of specificity until the rule comes out, until the team gets to work with each partner in order to figure out what’s the right path for them.

Sure. Thank you.

Reserve rate…

Yeah. Moshe, I think about it. I am comfortable with low single-digit loan growth like BJs. I think that’s -- given the economy, given the pressures, that we are seeing out there, given some uncertainty, I think, we are -- I am comfortable with that growth. I think would be concerning if we would came out with something much higher than that in this type of environment. So I think conservativism and managing our growth responsibly is what we have done from day one and we will continue to do that.

Yeah. I think, unfortunately, what -- the consequence of this action, wherever it lands credit is going to be more expensive for everyone and people that have access to credit today may not have access to credit tomorrow and I think, unfortunately, that’s going to be part of the outcome.

Yeah. So, it’s hard for us to predict political climate, though, I like to your outcome to be. But for us, it -- we view this as a high potential and because it’s a high potential, we wanted to understand what the impact is to our business and how we get on top of it to mitigate. So if it doesn’t happen and it gets pushed off, that’s terrific. But we -- hope is not a strategy. So for us it’s out there, it’s highly likely and we are going to mitigate it with this seasoned team.

Yeah. A couple of things. So we will provide more information at Investor Day as we move forward. But if you think about what we have been doing, we have really been diversifying our portfolio. So when that -- when -- if you think about potentially this will be going into effect and we may not be able to underwrite at the levels we have been underwriting. We have co-brands. We have direct-to-consumer now products -- proprietary products. Those are products that will continue to grow over the long-haul and invest in and lean into those hard. So at this point, I think, to me, I would not want to change anything until we get to Investor Day where we can be more transparent in terms of how we are thinking about the future and how we are looking over the horizon.

Firstly, I want to thank you all for joining the call and for your interest in Bread Financial and for all your questions today. Everyone have a just a wonderful day. Take care now.
