Randy Stuewe
Darling Ingredients Inc. (DAR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

No, it's a fair question, Tom. This is Randy. It's been so easy to kind of forecast this business the last couple of years looking forward because we didn't have the fat price volatility that we've seen now. I mean between Q4 and Q1, we've seen fat price come off at least another 20%. They've hit bottom, here is what I would say in February.
With your comment about two periods in the books, I've got one on the books in January, and we had a pretty nice January on both sides of the business. So we feel pretty good about where we're positioned. But at the end of the day, we've always communicated that a penny movement in fat was worth about $12 million of EBITDA in the Corn Ingredients business annually. And so clearly, we've moved lower. We moved lower from $0.54 in Q4 into around $0.40 in Q1 here, we're coming back. And so that's, to me, a little bit where my hesitancy is, is to try to do that.

Now what I will tell you is the DGD has now worked through its pipeline of expensive fat and we're seeing margins improve there back to where we think they should be for the year. So I mean, at the end of the day, we came into the year seeing or let 2023 having a view that we would have a very similar year and possibly improve with all the integrations of the acquisitions in 2024 and then fat prices move down sharply.

Protein prices have contracted a little bit, but at the end of the day, that's related to kind of a slowdown in global consumer demand, some destocking, that should come back. We're starting to see that happen around the world.

So ultimately, like I said, I think I'll come back to you in April after I put a couple more months in the books here, and we see that truly the DGD can widen its margins out at the lower fat prices. And clearly, that's how we see the business model tracking. What I told to Matt and Bob and Brad is, our year is focused on execution and simply generating enough cash and managing capital outlays to pay debt down below $4 billion this year and be investment grade. We don't have any bonds or notes coming due here until first quarter 2026. So we're not at any issue where we need to be doing something rapidly, and we have very, very favorably priced debt. We want to create value for the shareholder to get any concern that as the commodity markets in the world cycle here that this company is a very different company when we did the Vion acquisition back in 2014, 2015, very, very different set of dynamics now.

I think as I'll continue my rant here for a minute, clearly, the sustainable aviation piece is going to play a key role in widening those margins back at DGD. Clearly, Matt can comment on it later in the call here, we're seeing some really nice demand. And it's always the first movers and everybody doesn't want to be the first mover here, but we're close. The margins are much better than they are in standard, what I call road diesel or renewable diesel, and we're excited. And we'll do our best to get that plant online here sometime later this year and hopefully be up to full rate in '25 there. And then once again, we've changed our business model with the first mover advantage to where we were several years ago. So at that time, I hope I answered everything that you needed to hear.

Yes. I think you didn't come through totally clear in the room here, but I think you're asking about distributions out of DGD CapEx finish up. We got some debt to pay down that's there related. Do you want to comment Brad?

Yes, good questions. Clearly, the Feed segment, remember, in the procurement of raw material, when you get into a declining price environment, that's when your margins widen out. You have forward sales on and now you're buying raw material based on the current index markets at a lower price. That widened it out. As Brad also commented, we did recover some expenses from the Valley Proteins acquisition that were part of the stock purchase agreement and that's about all we can comment there on and that widened it out. But nonetheless, it was the volumes up, prices were down against the processing formulas and then a little bit of money came in related to Valley. So that's that.
The waste fat RBD soybean oil comments. I mean the first thing, and I'm going to split this with Matt and Bob here. The first thing that I think everyone needs to understand was if the industry was truly operating at the rates that everybody anticipates out there and puts in their spreadsheets, fat prices would not be where they're at today, whether it's soybean oil or waste fats.

Second, if the pretreatment capacity was as robust and nirvana in the world, waste fats would not be a discount to soybean oil today, crude soybean oil. So it's really a fascinating environment. All we can tell you is Diamond Green sold 1.25 billion gallons. We had some volatility in margins and an LCM adjustment here in Q4, but the margins are clearly being driven by the spread between soybean oil and waste fats. What do you guys want to add?

Yes. And I would just add, I think this is reflective of the challenge and trying to predict and estimate what's going to happen. I think the thing that I would watch for is, what does the biodiesel industry do? We're seeing biodiesel margins now underwater for the first time in quite some time. So if they don't run and operate, we're going to see weakness in [indiscernible] relative to other waste fats. There's a lot to talk about new renewables diesel capacity coming online and operating and its ability to utilize waste fats, UCO and animal fats, how real is that and how able is to use those oils. And so those are the things to watch that are going to ultimately determine what those spreads do.

Well, we're all smiling around here because we don't want to get sued in the morning by big pharmas. So we're going to be careful how we answer this.

Yes, I think that's about all we can say at this time. I will tell you that we will be launching the product, I believe, in Geneva here in May. So we've got a lot of interest in the product worldwide. You think of the applications that it can go into. Remember, a peptide [indiscernible] is water soluble, so it can go in solution. It can go into health bars, whatever you want to think. So there's lots of neat applications here that just once again diversify our product mix and ultimately is the underlying rationale for the Gelnex acquisition that we were working on or did.

Yes. I mean, Andrew, we look at it and Matt said it very, very well there. I mean, in the month of January, we landfilled 32 million pounds out of the Ward, South Carolina region. That's where not proud of. At the end of the day, it's a huge lost opportunity. So we're excited about getting ward on the MCC shipped at the end of January. We're expecting, hopefully, end of March, 1st of April, start up there. And then that puts a lot of ability to move tonnage to the right locations that we've been unable to do now for over a year. So that's exciting.

Miropasz closed here on the 1st of February that's three poultry plants investment case was exceeded at closed here, meaning it's doing better than we thought when we did the original deal, we kind of redid the diligence on that.

Gelnex, we have for a full year. We got Peabody down, the old bone gelatin plant, that's out of the system, the noise of that. So there's a lot of good things that we see happen for the year out there. We're carrying large inventories. And if you can read the balance sheet, you can see the working capital out there, you could see that the consumer demand slowed down around the world, and that's built inventories in several of our businesses. And so that's where we come back to, it's mainly the operational efficiency is a very important piece. And as Matt says, focused on it. But at the end of the day, the big cash driver for us next year is really getting the inventories down and managing working capital. And that's why we're so confident in the debt repayment side here.

Yes. No, it's a very, very fair question, Adam. I mean if I look back at the November call, we had incredible momentum with fat prices still in the $0.55, $0.60 a pound range and when you do guidance in this business, you just stopped the world and say, if that price holds and the tonnage holds and DGD margins are x, this is what it's going to generate. It's really that simple. It's a 5-minute exercise.

What's changed now is if we had 1718 out there before, fat prices are down $0.20 a pound. I said earlier reached [indiscernible] $12 million. So you could say fat price potentially 250 below that. So you can do the math and the 1.450 to 1.550 is the run rate to date.

Now the hesitancy to go out there and crystallize that for years, is I don't believe fat prices are going to stay there, but I don't know when they're going to react right now. And that's where my comments were geared around the demand for fats, whether it's soybean oil. If you start to think of it, okay, a year ago or we were supposed to have DGD or not DGD or REG or Chevron Oil or what the heck you want to call them [indiscernible] online. That's 250 million gallons or 275 million gallons. That's 2.5 billion pounds. P66, the Phantom plant of the future. I mean, what is that thing? Is it 4 billion? Is it 5 billion? Is it 6 billion pounds of fat? You still got two lines down at Martinez. When are those coming back online? Vertex can't seem to run consistently. Not sure what's going on with the restatement up in Montana right now, but they don't seem to be running very consistent and they're buying refined soybean oil.

So there's just a lot of moving parts out here that are really hard to put your finger on right now. I mean that -- as I've learned in this business, we've always said, you've been around me long enough. The only thing you can control in this business is the balance sheet. And so that's where my comments was, Brad and I are convinced we can pay down $400 million of debt this year to be investment grade and be ready to rock and roll as this goes again.
And then the SAF margins. As Bob commented, we have a lot of interested parties. We are in the margin discussions. They're complicated. It's a very different business, selling SPK blending it with JEDA and so those things are happening. I'm confident here by the end of first quarter, I suspect we'll have some deals done. Don't know how much transparency we can provide at that time. But as we've said, the margins are $1 to $2 above renewable diesel. That's 250 million gallons. That's another $250 million to $500 million of additional cash being generated.

Brad said, as he said, Adam, we're going to be delevered there to 0 shortly. Lots of moving parts there. The BTC, the government didn't pay the BTC for a month here as they went on holiday. We've got a huge receivable out there from that. And so at the end of the day, I think we're set up very nicely. I think it's going to be a year of growing earnings from Q1 forward here.

As everybody, as we remind people in January, we all forget January, but end of the day, we lost, I think, 4 or 5 snow days in North America where the plants couldn't even operate. We got curtailed on gas. So there's a lot of noise there that hopefully, as we get towards what I always call in the baseball parts open this business really starts to hum again.

Bob, anything you want to add?

I'm going to answer that. Yes, if the things go right that we see out here. I mean our goal is to exceed our performance in '23 and that we'll do a whole bunch of things out there to get there. And I mean, at the end of the day, I saw fat price trades last night that were up already $0.04 a pound over January. So yes, I mean, at the end of the day, we should pick up momentum there.

Remember, the model is built around Feed segment reductions and volatility are offset by the super machine down in the Gulf Coast that buys 3x more fat than we make. So as the price goes down, they have to work through their pipeline. They had not worked through their higher priced at, which was reflected in our Q4 earnings in January. It looks like they'll be improved in February here. And so those margins widen back out, then it offsets any softness that the Feed segment may deliver here. Bob, anything else?

Matt, you want to take crush? And Bob, do you want to take…

Yes, I'll take a little bit of this. I mean, essentially, you've got U.S., Canada, Europe, and Brazil in the Feed segment there. Each one has a different process of margin management. In North America or in the U.S., specifically, it's clearly about 70% of our raw material in the U.S. is procured under a fixed margin with a sharing of upside. And so when the prices come down, there's us to share, but there's a fixed margin that ensures cash flow and profitability.

Similar in Canada, but more exposure to commodity up there, Europe probably weigh less in the sense of commodity exposure as they are able to [indiscernible] raw material procurement values or prices down as they need to here to keep their margins. They'd rather have, [ $1,000 or $1,200 of ton fat then $800 a ton fat, but we've seen fat there recently traded in the $900s again. And you kind of got to do the math, that's in the mid-40s. That's where the U.S. has now moved back to.
In Brazil, we've got our challenges there in the sense that we bought a private company that didn't have the same ambition that Darling has towards margin management. So culturally teaching the procurement team down there to go back to the slaughterhouses. We're in process there. That will add value over the year. As we look back at 2023, we had a great first half of the year in Brazil, and then we had a challenge as prices came down around the globe to get the procurement team to react and realize that it's okay to do that.

So I know that's a long-winded answer, Ben. At the end of the day, it really comes down to reaction time and then the lag that it flows through. So fourth quarter, higher price sales, lower procurement costs, now we've got lower sales in Q1 and lower procurement cost.
Anything else you guys want to add? Okay. We'll stick with that.

Yes. So really, at the end of the day there, in Suann's slide deck, I still think one of the greatest stories is that quarterly run rate of the Food segment. And of course, then obviously, you get to see the split of 85%, basically being the Collagen Gelatin business and a little bit of it BMCTH the Edible Fats business that we have in Europe there.

As we look at that business going forward, clearly, we get a full year of Gelnex. Clearly, I made comments that the consumer demand in the world is lighter at this moment, maybe a little delayed recessionary, but it's improving. January was a good January, really at the run rate. So long term, as Brad and I have always said, we thought we'd hit around 3.25 this year. I think [indiscernible] weaker last year, when we had 3.21, all right. So we're pretty darn close, calling that one within 1% as we did.
We still believe that business, over the trajectory over the next three years will break $400 million. That's the launch of additional of the new peptides and growth of hydrolyzed collagen, shutdown of a tired asset in Massachusetts, finishing up some CapEx. We've got our [ fifth spray dryer online ] in Epitacio, Brazil now.
So lots of good things happening there. I know when the guys presented the peptide plan for just the glucose moderation peptide, they have a 5-year plan there of getting that to be over a $100 million brand. And that's just one of what I would say probably 6 to 10 peptides that can be launched out there with very limited capital to convert the factories that we already spent the money on.

This is Randy and Brad can help me here. Clearly, we took a reimbursement of some expenses that were incurred during the whole year, but 24%, we've always said somewhere between 23% and 25% is where that set should operate given really any type of pricing environment just being done by the lag of when the procurement formula has changed.

Yes. I think I'll tag this with Bob. I mean clearly, what we do as a team every day is as we run an analysis industry-wide or whether it's waste fats, whether it's renewable diesel, whether it's biodiesel, it's refined soybean oil, crude soybean oil. And [ we were in all the fats and look at them. And clearly, what we've seen is if you're in the biodiesel business and you're running soybean oil today, you're negative.

Now if you remember, a lot of the biodiesel capacity is still with the integrated crusher that's out there. And they have three choices. They can put it in the [indiscernible] to be exported. They can run it through their biodiesel plant. They can run it through their vegetable oil refinery. And at the end of the day, all they care about is what's the sense for bushel or dollars per bushel that they make it a crush margin and they don't care which asset it runs through. The freestanding guys are clearly the ones that are vulnerable right now. And I'll let Bob comment about that.

Yes. I mean, clearly, it's a discussion point at all times in the Board room. Clearly, our focus this year is to get the debt down to make sure that everybody thinks we've de-risked the business on commodity cycles. As I said, this is a very different business than we've had in the past. It's a massive cash generator. Remember, we've got debt at DGD and then we've got to finish up the SAF outflows on that project. So at the end of the day, this year, we'll be focused on just paying down debt to the end of the year. And what I shared with the Board and what I share with other people is, remember, we have some really favorably priced bonds or nodes out there. The first one that comes due is in [ April of 26] and that's the European node that's in what, low 3.3.

3 and 5.8, so then another year later, comes the 5 and something, 5 and 3.8 or whatever did order. Now on the U.S. bond. So we're not in any rush to do anything there. We're going to build cash once we have cash and the revolvers paid off, we have all kinds of flexibility to do what we want to do. Clearly, we set in motion and done opportunistic buybacks. We will buy back our dilution of our executive compensation programs, and as we see that the dividend start to come in from DGD, and we're getting to our leverage ratios that we want that the market expects, then it gives us a chance to do some things.

I mean, clearly, we paid for Miropasz here about 26 days ago that was $110 million. And so at the end of the day, was trying to run the business, walk through what I'd say is just a [indiscernible] in global businesses like this. When you have these big super cycles, big mountains are followed by deep valleys. And so end of the day, we're navigating out of that, making the adjustments we need. But at the end of the day, when we look at '24, we'll get $400 million plus out of the debt. And then when you go to '25 and you got SAF and you don't have any other projects going on out there. Then all of a sudden, it's pretty amazing how much cash you're generating and that's when the dividend discussion becomes absolute reality or you're just going to trap too much cash on the balance sheet.

Thanks everybody for all the questions today. As always, if you have additional questions, please reach out to Suann. Stay safe. Have a great day. We're off to Scotiabank's Conference, be presenting tomorrow there.
