Richard Kyle
The Timken Company (TKR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks for the question, Steve. Certainly, as you look at the chart from 2023 compared to 2024, most of these didn't move and quite a few of them would have had stronger first halves than second halves. So I think as we - as you look at the end of the year, this is more reflective of where we finished with our fourth quarter 5-ish percent decline in organic revenue and what made that up. And then some extrapolation of that and again, no assumption of any strengthening. So as an example, we have heavy industries here down high single digits.

We actually grew heavy industries in the fourth quarter last year. We grew it every quarter last year. But we have been consuming backlog for the last three quarters, and we're assuming that trend will continue and the second half of the year would be negative. And then also, as we've seen from really since late second quarter of last year, we went from - we inverted from probably overshipping our customers' demand and stocking inventory to a destocking situation, so we're in at least quarter three, maybe quarter four or five of that phenomenon. So we are and have been underselling most of these markets to what our customers are selling.

And it's - they're not huge numbers, but you see our off-highway customer was down 3% or 4% organically, maybe our sales to them were down 5% or 6% organically. So it's, I'd say, a reflection of the fourth quarter with really no improvement on it, and then seasonality laid on top of it. Phil, anything you would want to add to that?

I think it's a reasonable one. I wouldn't say it's - the timing is exactly right, and accuracy is not real high. But certainly, directionally, when it's moving favorably, is a positive for us. But again, the timing of that, predicting the lag, I wouldn't want to put too much into that.

Thanks Steve.

I would say, yes, we've seen some of our customers go to - especially if you take price out, negative organic revenue in the third and fourth quarters of last year. Now again, they may be saying that's their destocking in their distributor inventory, other things. But we've seen our customer revenue probably flatten out to go slightly negative and then throw us a little more negative due to the inventory destocking.

Good morning. Good morning, Steve.

I think on wind, we were down in the same ballpark in the fourth quarter. It's in our margin results, and then obviously got the seasonal impact of the rest of the company being somewhat depressed in the fourth quarter, which we would expect to step up there in the first quarter.

So I think for where revenue was in the fourth quarter and a slight decline in the first half of this year, which we feel pretty good about, and again, we have - it's one of the markets where we have more backlog visibility than average, I think we have that modeled pretty accurately. And maybe we have some upside if we can get some more cost out perform better, but not an enormous amount of upside there. I would say the second half - the second half on that would largely depend on where the volume lands out.

And again, since we've got it modeled flattish, we don't really have any improvement or deterioration in margins and EPS contribution from that in the first half to the second half. And sorry, I cut you off on your follow-up.

No, I think to the earlier - the first question from Steve, we were down 5% organically in the fourth quarter. That had a pretty negative wind sentiment - wind actual in it. We've got that same negative wind actual in the first half, and we've got a 6.5% in for the full year organically. So slightly worse all in versus where we've been the last quarter and the trend line we've been on. Probably even a little more worse than that outlook when you factor in the wind comps get a lot easier in the second half.

So that's what it's based on, is really the fourth quarter actual.

Yes. Certainly, I think the same ones you've heard us talking about, general industrial, a lot of smaller things in there, food and beverage, automation, et cetera, the marine business. We had a good fourth quarter in Aerospace, as you know, historically, we're heavily weighted to defense, which tends to mute our swings. But we're - we've been moving for some time more into the commercial side and looking to outgrow that passenger rail off-highway markets we do well in. We like off-highway markets, but obviously, cyclical on that side.

So - and again, I repeat, we're still believers long term in renewable energy, and actually renewable energy, including solar, grew in '23, slightly. And all that growth was in the first half and the second half was down significantly. But you'll continue to see us be ready for the bottoming and return of that market as well.

As you look across our market chart there, I think with the exception of on-highway, which, as you know, we've been looking more to hold our position and on-highway markets and outgrow the others organically and inorganically, so shrinking it as a part of the portfolio. There's elements of the other ones that have been a part of our targeted growth and outgrowth. And two of our - two of the ones that have contributed significantly for the last 10 years, renewable energy in China, both hit a significant pause in the middle of last year.

But we've got good momentum in quite a few of the other markets, Don't see any market share issues as you look across our portfolio, and it's pretty normal for these markets to grow when you look over three, four time frames. But they usually don't grow linearly, and there's usually some ups and downs. And right now, we're in this mid-single digit down all in with China and renewable leading the way on it.

Thanks Steve.

Hi Brian.

I think I'd put it in both the demand and the destocking typically six to eight quarters. And if you take price out, we're, fourth quarter, probably would have been three quarters in. So probably - and again, we're not seeing anything imminent in the first half, but most likely you'd be forecasting something either in the second half or the start of 2025 to invert and go back to the positive versus the negative on the restocking.

Your pronunciation was fine. It's probably at least as good as mine. So you did well there. On Des-Case, U.S.-centric business, goes through primarily in the U.S. bearing distributors. So the share in the U.S., much of the same customer base. I think there's certainly some things that we can do there to increase the pull-through from distributors, but not really a channel play so much as it would be - it's an upsell.

And we have people in all of their end-markets, and we have hundreds of them and they had more like 20. And so the ability to cross-sell in the U.S., pull that through our distribution, I think, is significant. And then the bigger play is taking them into our global distribution channels, and I think a lot of early enthusiasm from that from our global distributor partners.

Lagersmit, very focused on European, Nordic marine industry, and very focused on the OEM side of that, have not put as much energy and emphasis historically in capturing the aftermarket around the world. So the two opportunities there very much for us to sell more bearings into that Nordic marine market and other Industrial Motion products, but then also to do a better job of capturing their aftermarket around the world as well as penetrating some of the OEM base around the world as well.

So different synergy cases in both, but both very revenue base pretty light on the operational side in the case of those 2. I'd add before we go to the next question, too, both really fit our portfolio well. Product innovation, product leadership positions, strong brand names within their niche markets, and a really good technical fit with the Timken portfolio.

It would be - so our demand started leveling off into the first quarter last year after 2.5, three years of hiring and then the market is difficult to hire, et cetera. So while the turnover had been running a higher, turnover had been a challenge for us for those couple of years. It was - it enabled us to attrit our workforce and reduce our workforce without forced reductions quicker last year. So largely in a lot of cases, we stopped hiring in the second quarter of last year and started capturing attrition. The answer to your question is what I quoted was operative factory hourly workers down 8%.

We have captured some attrition in the salaried ranks as well, and we've done some restructuring on the salaried side as well, as I mentioned, the integration of some of the businesses. But the 8% is factory workers. The predominance of that would be flex that we brought the head count down as wind demand and other things have softened. And then there is a piece of it that is structural. I talked about the plant consolidations that we had happening last year as well as those that we have planned for this year.

But the predominance of it would be flexing our workforce and head count through the demand. And most of that would have been second half weighted. So a little bit in the second - really none in the first quarter, probably flat or maybe up head count in the first quarter, down a little in the second, and down pretty significantly in the third and fourth, and I expect we'll be down a little bit more at the end of the first quarter.

Was that in regards to the plant consolidations?

Okay. Nothing significant on the cash or restructuring side. We generally are doing a little bit of this every year. We had some in last year a little bit more this year. So there is some but nothing out of the line of what we've done the last few years.

And I would say we don't generally talk about exact cost-out targets with those. We have them, but we embed it more in our margin target, and it's all part of our objective to get margins up to 20% through cycle. And certainly, what we did the last few years was a contributor to our margins last year of 19.7%, and it would contribute to margins in 2025, but wouldn't give us exact number on it.

Thanks Mike.

Hi Joe.

Yes, I'll take the second part first. We would usually have close to six months of order visibility within wind, and to our outlook for the first half of the year, certainly, you can do a little bit better, but it's not going to be double digits better. But the second half remains pretty open and that to go favorably, certainly.

Yes. I would - I think it's a good question that I would say our customer sentiment is probably in total a little more bullish than what our 6.5% would be, and again, put wind aside as you did, I would say there's probably a little heavier optimism there. But we were just down 5% in the fourth quarter, a tougher comp in the first quarter. And looking at order flow, we're not seeing where that is reversed in the next couple of months. So we aren't baking that optimism in until we start to see it.

A few comments there. I'd say, first, our focus is really on executing and delivering on what we've done the last couple of years. That being said, we still have the balance sheet and the cash flow and the management bandwidth to continue in '24. And our bias still remains to M&A over buyback. We're looking at a better cash flow year this year, as I said, a step up there.

The M&A market has been relatively slow the last 1.5 years to two years. We have managed probably even a little longer than that, going back to COVID. We've managed to do well through that time. I would say there's a level of optimism that it's going to pick up as a market, not Timken. So - but I would still say we have not seen an increase in inbound activity.

It's been more us on the outbound side. So we've done at least one acquisition every year for 14 years. And while we're here in February, I would say there's no reason to believe we would not be able to continue that even if the market remains relatively slow, and that we should be able to get something both strategic and financially attractive done this year.

Thanks Angel.

Yes. Correct.

Thanks Chris.

Yes. First, I would say, a couple of quarters now, a few quarters, our supply chains are pretty close to normal. We have problems here and there, but nothing beyond the normal. So deliveries, response time, et cetera, all good. So we've got - and as I said in my comments, we've got a really good focus on this and have for a couple of quarters. So we are planning to underproduce to revenue through the course of the year, and that is factored into our decremental outlook that we would have a little lower production levels than the revenue and continue to see some positive cash generation from inventory.

Yes, I would say stable is a good word for it. It went down a little faster or softer a little faster than our other markets, but bounced back a little faster as well and has been - it's been more stable, to your point, probably than the headlines. And certainly, Germany is probably a little softer for us than some other countries, but still pretty good. Now again, a little lower comp than what some of our other geographies, particularly Asia is dealing with some very sizable growth comps in the last couple of years.

Thanks Mike.
