Richard Hayne
Urban Outfitters, Inc. (URBN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Lorraine, this is Dick talking. I'm going to let Sheila answer that question because she's very involved in this turnaround process, and she have details of that business, then she's much closer to it than I. But I do want to suggest to you that we do not believe that it's a pricing problem. It's more of a product problem. But Chile, do you want to...

Okay. Adrienne, I'll do my best. A disclaimer upfront is we don't have perfect insight into what our wholesale partners are either doing or what stage they're in their inventory journey. There's no question that I think almost all apparel retailers over ordered during the COVID supply chain crisis. And last year, many of our customers had to pull back. And so that left the wholesalers with quite a lot of inventory. And Sheila and the Free People team has been very, very disciplined in working that down. They're not quite done unless they will hopefully be gone by the first or second quarter of the current year. We think then the business will be much more stabilized, and we think that it's either a low to mid-teens operating margin business and that we can deliver that on a fairly consistent ongoing basis.

Paul, no problem. Urban versus suburban stores, what we see is the big urban spenders, New York, is still having difficulties. Now they're comping on a year-over-year basis the best. But when you look at the comp versus FY '20, and Garnet, we try to wean ourselves away from looking at FY '20, but we always look at that as a reference. The urban stores and the big metro areas are still off, and they're off the most of any of any group of stores that we have. The superfan stores have bounced back nicely and stores, in general, has bounced back pretty nicely. And last, in Q4, traffic in all stores, retail segment stores was up double digits. Now again, when you go back and look at it versus '20, it's not -- so we have -- we still have some work to do in getting those -- the store productivity up. Okay. Movement stores. I'll take a first shot at that and then ask Sheila to add whatever she wishes to add. The reason we want the Movement stores to be a bit larger. And when we say a bit larger, I think the average Movement store is now 1,500 to 1,800 square feet. And we're talking about raising that 2,100 to 2,400 square feet. The reason we want to do that is because Movement has expanded its product categories over the last 2 years. And there's a nice variety of product now that just -- most of it just won't fit in these stores. I'll give you an example. One of the best categories we had in Q4 was the Free People performance outerwear meant for hiking game and other types of outdoor activities. And that would have done even better had we had room to carry more of it in the stores. So that's the reason for the enlargement of the stores. And I think Melanie in her prepared remarks said that we plan to open 10 additional -- approximately 10 additional stand-alone Movement stores. That could go up a little bit, and we're still negotiating with some of our landlord partners and expect that it may go up. But if you want to plan conservatively, I would say 10 new stores would be the number to use.

And I'd just like to mention if I could. First, Alex, welcome. I think this is the first call that we've had with you and you've been on. But I also want to thank Kimberly Greenberger, who I understand is going off of our calls. She's been with us for 20 years, right, Kimberly, and we appreciate those 20 good years and certainly appreciate how professionally you've handled our calls in the past. So good luck to you in the future.

Matthew, I could give you an answer, but I think it would be much, much more appropriate for Tricia Smith to give you that answer. I have seen it in the numbers. She and her team have predicted it and saw it in the inventory carried. So I'll let her answer the category issue.

Okay, Marni. I -- again, I'm going to defer to Sheila. She's very close to this, but let me just give a couple of comments. I think it is largely around the team. Yes, I think there's lots of products that would do very well at Urban and they have to be ordered correctly, meaning the right quantities and they have to be assorted correctly. So I think that, that's an issue. But let me just say that recently, we've hired a number of people, including a chief customer officer, a new director of planning and a finance chief. So we want to assemble a new team, and we are in the process of that. As you said, we're looking for -- Sheila is busy searching for a new brand leader. And we think that, that will be one of the key items of this turnaround. And we're confident in the turnaround. I know that we've discussed inflation impacting this customer, and I still believe that, but I think there's plenty of business to be done, and we will get it done. And Sheila, what else would you like to say about it?

Are you referring specifically to the Anthropologie?

Okay. Just let you know, Meg and I met with Shiela today, and I think that she went over maybe a dozen, maybe 2 dozen styles of apparel and Urban Outfitters women's that they are currently chasing because the sale throws are very strong, and we don't have enough product of those particular items. And so this is what the shorter lead times, how that would benefit us. And so the fact that the supply chain is back is extremely exciting where we can have a sort of a test and learn and then chase. And so I'm very enthusiastic about that, and I think it would make a big difference in the business. Did you get the -- I think the Tricia -- both Tricia and Sheila believe that, and it's not just for the Urban brand is for all brands.

Okay, Jesse. I'll try to handle that. I don't think it's surprising given the fact that COVID is now over that we've seen a rebound in store traffic. Many of our stores were impaired closed first and then impaired for a while. So the store traffic has definitely picked up. And in Q4, was up double digit. Comps very much positive. And as I said, I think that the traffic is inching closer to pre-pandemic level. Conversion is still a little softer, but I think that's largely because prices are up a bit and markdowns were down a bit, except that the urban Outfitters North America brand. So in total, comp store sales in Q4 rose double digits and as did the AUR. Now with the digital channel, it's actually varied by brand. Free People delivered a very strong Q4 growth in digital, double digit as a matter of fact, and they saw gains in both sessions and sales. But when you look at total company digital, it's only up 2% with traffic actually being down a little bit, that negative traffic is largely driven by Urban Outfitters both in North America and in Europe. So it's much more varied. But again, I think it's not necessarily unexpected that as COVID ends and stores rebound, some of the people who shopped online are anxious to go back into the store and then don't shop online. So that gives you a sort of a view overall of how the channels are performing. But in some they're actually, when you look at the comp sales, we're now remarkably similar. So we're basically not with all brands, but we're basically the 50-50 digital versus stores.

Okay. Thank you all very much for joining. I appreciate it very much, and we hope to see you in a few months.
