Rick Cardenas
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (DRI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Jon. This is Rick. I mean as we've talked about the choppiness of Q4, it was really fine dining going up against last year's very strong bounce back from Omicron. And so this quarter, as we alluded to at the end of -- in the third quarter, was this quarter is going be a little bit tougher for fine dining because of how they bounced back. And actually, Raj already alluded to the Q1, will probably be the same kind of toughness because of the bounce back last year.

But that said, the consumer seems pretty strong overall. And within the restaurant industry and based on our internal and external data sources, there appears to be only minimal switching between lower priced occasions at this point. Not all that is switching, but some. And overall, we're not seeing anything concerning. What I will say, as you think about mix, we've talked about this before, we're not seeing material changes in our check trends across our core casual brands. There is no negative mix at Cheddar's. And we are watching add-ons and trying to understand if there is some cracks there. But we don't see any real cracks there.

And -- but one area we're seeing a little bit of check management is with alcohol sales primarily at our higher end brands. And we think part of this is because of the function of last year, similar to the guest count trends we saw in last year, there was probably a little bit of euphoria in check last year. So that's kind of where we think about the consumer. And we didn't really think the quarter was choppy. We expected that to happen and that's what happened.

Yeah. I think it's not necessarily integration of Ruth's. You think about what we're seeing on openings, CapEx was higher and where we wanted to be prudent as Raj said in the last call, we want to be prudent and making sure that we are earning a return that we really want to earn in our restaurants. And we've had some contractor starting to come back in and bid for sites that they stopped bidding for during the pandemic and even after the pandemic which should make bidding more competitive. We're starting to see that. And so we wanted to be prudent and make sure that we have the right returns and we still have great returns in all of our restaurants and that's kind of where it is. It's not really because of risks.

Hey, Eric, this is Rick. We look at what the competitor is doing. And you're seeing some promotional activity in competitors. We've got one major competitor that launched a little bit more TV or jumped back on to TV. But that said, our strategy remains the same on the marketing side. We're going to continue to be -- to have advertising Olive Garden because it's a big competitive advantage for Olive Garden, but we're going to continue to use our filters, first, elevating brand equity by bringing the brand's competitive advantages to life, it's simple to execute and it's not at a deep discount.

So as we talked about in the last call, we're going to stick to our strategy of core guest count growth. We'll react accordingly if something really changes. But when we increase our marketing spend, if we do, we expect it to earn a return. So we don't necessarily expect us to go back into the deep discount craze and that's our strategy and we're going to try to stick to it.

Hey, Andrew. For competitive reasons, we're definitely not going to talk about plan details. We do believe the Never Ending Pasta Bowl is a really strong promotion for us, especially with the changes we made last year. And so we'll look at any PB and if there's things that we can do with it. But definitely not going to talk about if we're going to do it twice.

Yeah, Chris. As we've said before, over the last years, our brands have done a great job improving productivity. We would expect to continue to have some productivity improvements over time, but not to the extent that we had during COVID. As we continue to look at improving training, having turnover come down, that should help productivity little bit. We're not going to have to discuss Ruth's right now. We've only owned them for eight days.

So we'll have to just get through the -- getting through integration is going to actually probably be a productivity downer for them for a little bit. So let's let us get Ruth's under our belt for a little bit longer than eight days before we talk about the details there. But as I said, labor productivity, we should expect it to tick better as the year progresses as we continue to improve on our turnover and as we continue to improve our training.

Yeah, David. Thanks for the question. I did say earlier that we have not seen an impact in the consumer as much as maybe our competitors have. And I think there's a couple of reasons for that. There is a tension between what people want and what they can afford. And even in a slowing economy, consumers really continue to seek value. And it's not always about low prices, it's about execution, it's about what the experience to get in the restaurant or wherever they are. They're making spending tradeoffs.

And as I said before, food away-from-home is really difficult to give up if you're executing. And so what we think about it is, what it means to our brands. What it means to what we do every day. And we believe that operators that can deliver on their brand promise and the value that appeals to guests, despite economic challenges, is what's going to get you to win. And that's what we've been doing.

So whatever has been happening to the consumer and the economy and the restaurant space, we're going to control what we can control and what we can control is the experience that our consumers get in the restaurants every day and the value we provide. And we continue to hope that we're going to buck the trend of guest counts that the industry has. And we would expect to have a gap to the industry.

I think there might be some price sensitivity in consumers overall, whether it's in the restaurants or what have you. But you think about GDP trends, so over the last four quarters, GDP has continued to tick down and that would mean that traffic would take down everywhere. Whether it's at a restaurant or it's in a retail establishment, wherever it is, as GDP continues to tick down, you would expect traffic to tick down.

Yes. The industry saw a little bit more of a hit to that. And I do believe part of that was because of the bounce-back from Omicron last year in Q4. I don't think we were the only ones that benefited from that. I think others did. And so let's see how this all plays out. We've given you our guidance for the year, which does assume negative traffic. And actually assumes less negative traffic than the industry. So that should tell you we think there is a little bit of softness there. But we're going to continue to perform and do the things that we do every day to bring guests into our restaurant.

Thanks.

I'll just add something to that. If you look at -- think about the cash flow or EBITDA, pre-COVID, our EBITDA was about $1.2 billion and today with based on Raj is saying it's $1.7 billion, $1.8 billion. So that gives us a lot more cash to do those things and increase our share buyback and M&A. And so if you think -- but we've talked about M&A often. M&A adds to our scale which is our biggest advantage.

And we continue to talk to our Board, management continues to talk to the Board about our best uses of capital and M&A is one of those. And so but we just got done with the Ruth's deal. So let us do a little bit there. It doesn't mean that we wouldn't be back in the market down the road. But we've got plenty of cash, we've got plenty of debt capacity. Raj said, we're at basically two times adjusted debt-to-adjusted EBITDAR and that's at the low end of our range. So we have plenty of capacity to do more things.

Well, we've said in the past that most of our G&A -- most of our synergies come from G&A and supply chain. So, when we have in the past that it's about half-and-half whenever we done acquisitions before. So yes, Ruth's should get in the long term benefits from cost-of-sales. Now that said, we may reinvest some of those cost-of-sales and our other brands will get some of the benefits too. So it won't all flow to Ruth's.

I will say that there aren't many brands in the industry that we could acquire that actually improve our EBITDA margin at the restaurant-level and Ruth's does. So, across Darden. Now they might not be as high depending on how you look at it as Capital Grille, they might be higher, a little bit lower depending on your definition of restaurant margin. But they're pretty close. And so and because Capital Grille is higher than Darden's average margin, Ruth's helps Darden's margin. So that's a pretty good deal for us.

Sure.

Yeah, Jeff. This is Rick. You think about what we're starting to do with data, we are starting to use a lot of AI and machine-learning to help guest count forecast and help our restaurants forecast our business better. And that would move all the way down through the company, right. So if you forecast your traffic better, you order better, you receive better, you schedule better, that's one of the big things that we've looked at is using machine-learning and AI.

But we got to remember, one of the things that we do every year as we use data to help look at what our guests patterns are, what we think about guests and how do we market to our guests. We also improve operations execution with the data that we have. But I would say, if you're asking for one big thing -- and is analytics through pricing too. So, we've got a great analytics team here that does help with our pricing. They look at restaurants, they look at categories, look at items, they look at elasticity. And we can do all that in-house because of our scale.

Hey, Danilo. If you think about our pipeline for this year, most of the pipeline, you have to have already started construction by the time the year -- almost by the time the year started to get them open because it takes a little longer to open a restaurant or build a restaurant today than it did before COVID. So if it's not started by the end of Q1, it probably doesn't open this year. Maybe even if it doesn't start until -- by July, it's hard to open this year.

So that's why we've got our kind of guide of about 50 gross openings. When we talk about international, that doesn't incorporate -- that's not incorporated in our unit count because we are committed to staying a company-owned model only in the U.S., not that we wouldn't have franchise in the U.S., but will be only franchise outside the U.S. and Canada. So all of our restaurants outside the U.S., the ones that we opened last year were all franchised. And anything that we open going forward is likely to be franchised as well.

Yeah.

Hey, John. Yeah. We think through that all the time. And we do still do those consumer segmentation studies, and we still do market structure studies. We don't necessarily talk about them externally because we don't want everybody else to see them. But thinking about the student loan impact, yes, they'll start being repaid in, I guess, September around there, but it shouldn't be a material headwind. It will be a headwind. Any time you take money out of consumers' pockets, it's a headwind, but it shouldn't be material because student loan payments are a very small component and it's probably already baked into the economic forecast for GDP growth that we use for our plan.

Sure. I think Raj talked about our consumer demographics a little bit ago. We're still above pre-COVID on our consumers in the 35 age range or below 35, which is probably the ones that are in their student loan repayment period. And the 55 plus or below pre-COVID last year. So there's probably still some room for some of those 55 plus to come back, and I'm doubting that they're paying student loans back unless they're paying it for their kids. And if you think about our population, we still have a high percentage of our of our consumers that are above $100,000. So hopefully, a student loan repayment wouldn’t impact them too much.

Sure.

Yeah, Brian. LongHorn has been executing well for the last few years. And I keep -- I want to comment Todd and his team, they've been on this journey in quality, simplicity and culture. That's what Todd talks about every day, investing in quality and portions that continue to pay off. They had almost 7.1% same-restaurant sales growth in the quarter. That was driven by some pricing. They've had more inflation, but they also have had record weekly sales and Mother's Day, and yes, they're 34% above pre-COVID levels in sales versus Q4. And traffic is positive over pre-COVID. So I can't tell you it's any silver bullet and we've talked about that in the past that there aren't silver bullets here. It's about having great execution, investing in your team, investing in your product to drive profitable same-restaurant sales growth. And that's what they've been doing.

Yeah, Brian. Let me talk about differences and why we believe that there’s not a whole – a lot of overlap between the Ruth’s customer and a capital growth customer. But I will preface this by saying, we’ve only owned them for 8 days. And before we closed the deal, we were not allowed to see their consumer data, right? We were still competitors, and we couldn’t see their consumer data other than looking at third-party data that we would have.

So we want to start looking at their data to understand it a little bit better. But one of the primary reasons is geography. If you look at – they have 150-ish restaurants, including the franchise system, and they have restaurants in markets that Capital Grille doesn’t have restaurants in. And even in restaurants to capital, even in markets that Capital Grille has restaurants in, they’re not necessarily close to each other in a lot of those markets.

So there isn’t as much overlap as you would expect. And that’s a good thing for us, good thing for Ruth Chris, and it’s a good thing for Capital Grille. And – but then I would add that if you think about ADBs and Capital Grille, we’ve had this kind of scenario for many years. Where ADBs guests may go to Capital Grille, but they go for different occasions. And we want to learn a little bit about that at routes on the occasion differences.

And then finally, I think Capital Grille is a little bit more, going back to geography, a little bit more mix in urban than Roots, an urban core versus Ruth Chris, where Ruth Chris, for example, if you have a restaurant in Birmingham, we don’t have – or in Destin, Florida. There’s the Ruth Chris. We don’t have Capital Grille there. So there’s reasons that there isn’t as much overlap as you would have thought.

Yeah, Jake. Yes, you would expect that as turnover goes down, productivity gets better, and we've started to see that already this year. So our turnover is improving and our productivity is getting better. So it's not like we're going from the highest turnover we've ever had to the lower turnover next year. We've actually started gradually moving to it. And one of the places that gets you the biggest productivity loss is the turnover in the first 90 days. And that's had a very big improvement for us.

So you don't -- you have less productivity loss if you have less 90-day turnover. And so we've seen an improvement in turnover. We're still above pre-COVID levels, but we're a lot closer to our pre-COVID levels than we were just last month and the last month before that, the month before that. And we'll continue to improve I don't know if we'll ever get back to pre-COVID level turnovers. But if we do, then that should give us even more productivity enhancements.

Yeah, Jake. Our goal is still to get towards the higher end of the range. It might take us a little bit more time to get there than we originally thought. COVID has slowed a lot of stuff down in development. The permitting that Raj talked about, equipment that Raj talked about, those things are getting better than all the way back. It would be great if we could get permits as fast as we used to get them. It would be great if we can get utilities turn down as fast as we used to get them. That's just not come back anywhere near where we need it to be.

And as we think about construction costs, getting back to a more normal level, Raj mentioned that we've had the last few contracts that we've bid out have come in better than what we expected. And that's a good sign for us. So that will help us get back to that higher end of our framework. And I would also remember, we don't talk about this very much, but that framework includes M&A. And while we would like to get to the high end of the framework just with organic growth, M&A is prime work.

And the thing is when we shared that framework earlier today, the five year delta, the five year impact to the framework, had no M&A in it. And we were still within our -- within probably the mid-range of our unit growth. So M&A is part of that. It is part of our capital allocation. So -- but we would still like to get to the high end without M&A.

And if I can just add one thing to that. If you think about our turnover coming down, that means we don’t have as many people we’re hiring as we were before. So we didn’t have to hire as many people now than we did before. And so the wage, even if the wage break didn’t happen, it’s still not as big a deal for us, but the wage break is starting to happen. But the fact that we don’t have to hire as many people helps us as well.
