Rick McKenney
Unum Group (UNM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I think, Joel, you hit it. There was a step up in 2023 from an earnings perspective, but you can see from our outlook in 2024, we're looking to grow off it. So 7% to 9% on top of a very strong year, you know, all those indicators that we talked about, and as Chris articulated, in particular to our group disability, but even with our Colonial Life business are all intact. And that leads us to our good outlook coming off of an incredibly strong year.

Sure. Thanks, Alex. Just to take you back, everyone back, we mentioned a couple of times, but the capital generation this year was very, very strong. We see it continuing as we go forward. And we ended the year in a very good capital position as we've been building that throughout 2023. So first of all, I'll start there.

Second is last year, a priority was putting more money behind long-term care and funding that level of funding up the PDR, and so that was accomplished. And I think that leaves us in a good spot as we've talked about. No more money going towards long-term care. And so then we think about the deployment opportunities we have in 2024, I'd start out first with putting it right back in our core businesses, investing in the digital capabilities we talked about. From an organic perspective, that's contemplated in our earnings as we talk about that, as we fund internal initiatives. And we'd like to look at M&A to how do we continue to accelerate that growth rate. Capabilities, things that surround our business, whether it's distribution, product, internal capabilities, we'll continue to look at.

And when you do all of those different things, we then look at our -- how we'll deploy it back to our shareholders. Steve mentioned the dividend expectation even ticked up a little bit, that 10% to 15% range this year. And share repurchase, which is double where it was a year ago at $500 million. Doing all of that, we still have building capital levels, and we'll have to contemplate that over time, what we want to do with that.

These are different trend lines that we're on from a generation, as well as from a deployment perspective. And so we'll be thoughtful in 2024 about how we do that. I think Steve articulated on one of his slides and mentioned, we're going to be dynamic with share repurchase. So it's not something we're putting out there today. But clearly, as you said, we're in a much higher level of capital that we've seen over time. And we have lots of potential uses for it. Nothing particular that we have today it will build, but we'd love to use some of that capital to deploy to grow our business faster, and then if we don't see that opportunity to turn it back to our shareholders.

Sure. Thanks, Suneet. Just a couple of comments. One, you mentioned the transaction that happened last year. It was good to see. It was a positive development. I think after many years, where we've been talking about it, but you haven't seen anything in the market. So I just articulate a positive development. If you look at the transaction that was done, it's very consistent with how we've been talking about it, in terms of parsing out certain risks within our block, taking on different things, finding the right counterparty. All of those are things that we've been talking about what a transaction might look like.

For us, our message is very consistent around that. So we have the ability to work with counterparties, to do that, to parse out different things, the bid-ask spread that we look at. And when that closes, we'll be looking at a transaction. We're not there in terms of what we've seen out there, but we're going to stay very active in the markets. And I think that we'll look forward to more buyers meeting sellers, but I don't think there's a change in our tone overall from a market perspective, but we're very happy to see that positive development happen in the market. So hopefully, that answer -- I think our messaging will be very consistent. The only thing that's different is something has happened in the market, and that's a good thing.

It's really not. When we think of a potential transaction out there, we think we -- before this year, we had plenty of capital to do it. Steve had on his slide, we have a lot of debt capacity as well. So I really would take that out of it.

We're not earmarking any of those excess funds we're talking about for any particular use. We'd love to see it in terms of the good M&A transaction. If something could happen in LTC, that would be good as well, but we're not holding back any funds waiting for a transaction to happen. We've got the flexibility, the capacity to do something, even as we stood at -- even as we stand today or as we project out over the course of the year.

Chris?

I think the assumption would be a consistent approach. I think we're looking at not necessarily to go far afield, but to build our positions that we have. We have opportunities to do that. There are some areas we'd like to continue to build out across the franchise, across the world on that front.

But when you think about other bigger transactions that do basically what we're doing today, we're going to be very, very selective, because we think we have the opportunity to grow it organically. So hope that gives you a sense. We were very happy with the transaction we've done. Although it's been a couple of years since we've done one, but we're going to be out there in the market continuing to look at what makes sense for us and most importantly, what's on strategy.

Yes. Tom, the way I'd answer that is we've talked about how buyers can meet sellers in the process. And as we look at it, we talk to counterparties and -- we've talked about it within the LTC block of how we would parse risks, think about asset management, aspects of that, think about liabilities. But certainly, we would be open to other things that buyers would be looking for around the franchise. So I wouldn't take that off the table, and we would have that opportunity.

Yes. I appreciate the question, Ryan. I'm not sure I want to get into too much detail. I think I'd just go back to my earlier comments, which is we look at the entirety of our long-term care exposure and think about how we can parse those different risks in different ways. I wouldn't want to get into a legal entity or even duration-specific things until we get closer to getting something done.

Good morning, Wilma.

Yes. So I wouldn't want to speculate. I don't know what was going on, particularly on the ground with that transaction. I can look at it just as you can from a far and say that it's a positive development for the industry and for people that are looking to do something on that front. And I would just say we have had very consistent dialogue, very consistent outreach expectations parsing. So I don't think our world has necessarily changed as a result of that. But I think it's good for the world to see that these transactions can happen, and we'll continue to pursue such a transaction.

Thanks, Josh.

Yes. I think, Mike, the way I'd look at it is kind of how Steve, it will be dynamic. So we don't just set a plan and set it and forget it. We actually will be back at it all the time. So building up that excess throughout the course of the year, we're going to be making decisions constantly about what we want to do with that. And as we get closer to those decisions, we'll certainly give the market some heads up around that.

Yes, Tom, it's a line that we launched several years ago. Just to clear, this is the line we launched several years ago opportunistically, and so you'll see that be a little bit more volatile, but I think it's a good call out within the results. LTD was actually quite strong from a sales perspective.

Thanks, Tom.

Great. Thank you, Rob. I appreciate everybody sticking with us for a little bit more time today as we put together both the results of 2023 and our outlook for 2024. We'll be out there working at different conferences, talking to different investors. We look forward to meeting up with you here in the next several months. And I appreciate you spending the time on today's call.

With that, we'll end the call, Rob. Thank you.