Rick Marabito
Olympic Steel, Inc. (ZEUS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Phil.

And I'd say and Dustin Ward, who was the previous owner of CTB, is a fantastic leader. He stayed on with us and we've got really big plans to continue to use that CTI/CTB platform to do more value-add processing and a big chunk of the CTB business is data centers. So we're excited about the growth there.

And then overall, maybe Andrew, you can talk about fabrication and really the growth we're seeing, especially not only in the pipe and tube, but also in the stainless and really in the carbon side.

And I think the item to really note, as Andrew talked about, a couple of the end industries where our customers have forecasted slightly softer volume. We're more than offsetting that with the new business. And a lot of that new business is what Andrew talked about a few minutes ago on the fabrication side.

So, that's how we get to the -- around the 10% to 11%, 12% growth in the first quarter sequentially. We're onboarding a lot of new business.

Good morning, Dave.

Yeah, Dave, this is Rick. So first, generally, our overall strategy through M&A as well as CapEx, we like all three of our business segments, so our intent is to grow all three of them. We've had -- probably until CTB, we had a little bit of a greater focused success rate in terms of specialty metals and carbon on the acquisition side. That's why we were thrilled really to add CTB to the mix. But strategically, we're looking to grow all three of them through a balanced approach on CapEx and acquisitions.

I think on the acquisition front, obviously, if you look at some of the recent acquisitions we've done, we really are gravitating towards those types of companies that really have a consistent return, high return companies that we can add a good amount of synergy to through our existing operations. So I'd say we're taking a really balanced approach, and we'd like to grow all three segments through acquisition. And while we're doing that, we're going to continue to do what you saw us do, which is add stand-alone fabricating facilities adjacent to some of our metal fabricating facility. So we like that model as well.

We're really excited about, keep in mind, as Rich said, and you saw in the earnings release, we acquired CTB in the fourth quarter. So our results actually had some acquisition-related costs. So we're excited for 2024 to have the full year impact of CTB in the pipe and tube segment. So that's certainly a positive.

Yes, Chris, this is Rick. Right now, we have really nothing that we're looking at on the divestiture side. Certainly, on the acquisition side, as we've commented, we've made six acquisitions in the last five years. That is definitely a piece of our strategy going forward.

We're active in terms of marketplace. The entire M&A marketplace for metals really broadly due to the economic environment, the interest rate environment, the back half of last year seemed to slow a little. Seems like it's picking up a little bit, but that is a key piece of our strategy going forward. And we'll remain active looking for the good fits that we've outlined.

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for joining us on our call this morning. We appreciate your continued interest in Olympic Steel, and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. Thanks. Have a great day, everybody.
