Rick Swartz
MYR Group Inc. (MYRG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Justin.

Sure. Sure. I would look at it on the T&D side, I think we talked about it last quarter that the majority of our issues were really on a handful of solar projects in one geographic area. So with that, those projects, as Tod said during his script, will end -- the end of the second quarter, beginning of the third quarter with field labor. We’ll continue to negotiate and go through that side with the customer and make sure that we get a hopefully, a fair agreement in the end. But I think we -- that will continue to have some margin pressures on our T&D side. Without those, we would be operating in the mid-range kind of our T&D margin profile of that 7% to 10.5%. So very comfortable that will happen. These just have a slight drag as these projects near completion.

On the C&I side, we’ve said, if you look at it on a monthly basis by the end of the second quarter, we’ll be back to that kind of 4% operating margin and hopefully have a trajectory above that going forward through the year. And that’s really getting those problem projects that were kind of that pre-COVID-awarded projects behind us. So we did have some margin degradation during the quarter on a couple of those projects, but -- and then we had material come in on those projects that were low margin. So again, by the end of the second quarter, we see on a monthly basis, that margin getting back to that kind of that low end of our margin profile for C&I. I’ll stop there and let you ask any other questions around that.

I would still look at the high single-digit growth for the year, probably a little -- weighted a little more heavy towards the second half of the year. Very positive about what’s being out there on the C&I side. I mean, as far as opportunities that Don talked about. Tod talked about opportunities on the Transmission & Distribution side. And then on the clean energy side, we’re going to be -- continue to be selective on what we take on. We’ve seen some people taking some low-margin work on that side, and we’re willing to -- we like that market. We’ve got people that are well prepared to do that work, and we’ve got some very good projects. But again, we’ll continue to be selective. And then, as I always say in every quarter, backlog is always going to be lumpy. But when you look at the opportunities out there, I think everything in our script and what I see day-to-day very active market still.

Thank you.

I would say from the all-time I guess, slow -- I guess, low side of the supply chain. It has improved. I mean they’re not getting any worse when you talk about transformers or equipment that way. Panels seem to be levelizing out on that supply. Again, we usually don’t supply those, but they can affect the progress of our projects that the owners don’t get them in time or they come in a kind of lumpy-type delivery.

So with that, I think we’re seeing improvements on that side. We’re not seeing anything worse. And in some cases, as we’ve talked about in previous quarters, our customers are releasing the material portion early now and equipment portion so we can actually order that in advance of the projects and have it for on-time delivery for future work. So, not all negative on that side, but it did have some impacts during this last quarter.

I think they’re always looking at the MSAs. But as far as the amount of work we have and our conversations with them, very positive that, that work is going to continue, and those trends are going to continue. We haven’t seen anybody pull back on anything. Tod, is there anything you want to add or any insight you want to give?

Thank you.

Yeah. For us, I think it’s just being selective. Again, as we go forward, it’s not that, that business is 40% of our overall business when we look at the clean energy market, but it’s growing every day. And we’ll continue to pursue the right opportunities and the ones that make sense. But we do have a margin profile that we want to meet. And as we said before, this year, we really want to focus on though we don’t mind growing our top line, and we still see it coming in, in kind of that higher single-digit. We’re really going to focus on that bottom line growth, and this all takes that into account. We want to make sure that the work we’re doing and we take on is profitable going forward.

Right now, I would anticipate it across both segments. I mean, barring something -- a project coming in on one side or the other. I mean we do clean energy on both sides. So that’s an example where one could come into [Technical Difficulty] really doesn’t matter where that comes into us on that side of the business. But I think you heard the opportunities from both Tod and Don, and those are very strong. And again, very lumpy on the awards. It’s always going to be lumpy, and it always has. But when we look at the amount of activity out there, very positive about the amount of work that’s out there.

I don’t have any size that one is going to outgrow the other one. I think for us, it’s where our customers are spending their money during a given quarter or given a couple of given quarters. So it’s the type of projects we do -- we have MSAs on transmission and distribution for many of our clients. So I don’t really care where it comes from. The margin profiles are almost identical. So for us, we’re not picky, and we haven’t heard our customers saying they’re spending more towards distribution and transmission to-date.

Hi, Rick.

Yeah. I would say the other market that’s out there on the transportation front as some of the light rail stuff out there. That’s a growing market in some areas. That’s something that we’ve been good at in certain geographic locations. So we see that continuing to grow. Healthcare continues strong and then kind of that manufacturing side. I would take all those kind of along with data centers is kind of the top tier stuff we’re doing.

Back to the electrical vehicle side, I think we’ve always said that was going to be a slower build than what was anticipated. We see it as a great long-term business, but the US is 50% of the vehicles in our -- in my opinion, aren’t going to be electric vehicles by 2027. I think it’s going to be a lesser amount than that. So the infrastructure is going to continue to build out, but probably at a manageable pace.

Yeah. I think to-date, there hasn’t been big storm calls. We don’t have a lot of people out on storm. We have had some geographic areas. I mean, if you look at it individually, that have had some weather impact. So we continue to have that, but we’ve had some that are better than anticipated. So I don’t want you to think that the weather is bad everywhere. It’s really how does it affect the given projects. And I think we’ve talked before on calls, you have two projects that are 50 miles apart. One has extremely bad weather and the other one has normal weather. So it can really vary. But again, to-date, we’re not going to -- we haven’t seen big storm revenue.

To conclude, on behalf of Kelly, Tod, Don and myself, I sincerely thank you for joining us on the call today. I don’t have anything further, and we look forward to working with you going forward and speaking with you again on our next conference call. Until then, stay safe.