Rick Olson
The Toro Company (TTC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay. Well, I'll answer the first question first. With regard to Lowe's, most of the Lowe's impact will be in the second quarter. There is the start of the process shipping in the first quarter, but we'll have more significant -- most of the significant effects would be in the second quarter. And it's -- hopefully, it's clear that it will be a net benefit to residential overall.

Yes. It would be all included within our guidance because of field inventory and so forth those are the adjustments that are kind of the net on the opposite side. But we do feel that residential will go through a recovery period in 2024, and we've seen some positive signs from a retail standpoint at this point. So, it's really a matter excluding Lowe’s of what's in the channel between us and them.

Yes. Starting with backlog year-over-year for our information is down about $300 million year-over-year. And your question sequentially is down from the third quarter - slightly from the third quarter. So stepping down really in the second half of 2023, and actually bumped up slightly in the first and second quarters of 2023 and then a step down. So we have made probably the first significant net bite out of that backlog in the last couple of years. That's something we're working hard on. It mainly reflects the additional output from our plants and the healthier supply chain. So that's the situation with backlog.

Minimal, very minimal order cancellations and continue to have a very strong order flow at this point. You're seeing the net impact of the backlog, but it's actually, I think we talked about last quarter, the 18 of those orders is actually improving. So we're fulfilling some of the long-term orders they are being replaced by new orders, and that's really the net that you see. But our goal is to reduce the open order situation just because most important for us is our balance to our customers, make sure we serve them in their expected time.

Sure. Well, first of all, back to the first part of the question, we do expect the professional business to grow slightly year-over-year. And the second part of your question is the important piece to understand, it's a range within the professional segment of expected outcomes.

So, on the areas that coincide with where we have high back order at this point. So golf grounds, underground construction, we do expect continued growth, mainly driven by improved output in our plants. And that's something that steadily increased or improved throughout this last year. So, we entered into the New Year at a much better place with the supply chain with our plants.

And if you go to the other end of the spectrum, we do expect continued rebalancing within the channel. On the landscape contractor side, especially the homeowner customers related to landscape contractors. So, the more commercial lease portion would be the part that we're talking about there. So, that's going to go through the rebalancing, probably acting more similar to residential markets.

It's a meaningful range of expected growth between the two spectrums, the two ends that I talked about.

From our perspective, the rental channel continues to be very healthy. It's been -- it was a strong driver for us in 2023 and order positions continue to be very strong. Obviously, there are adjustments taking place by category and by an individual customer, but we still see that as a healthy business for us.

Field inventories are still meaningfully elevated from where we would like to see them at this time of year. Especially given for spring products, it's really the off season at this point. So, that -- we're not going to see major retail flow through until we get into the spring in North America, where we'll start to see the momentum, so still higher. Snow is higher. We had a relatively poor snow season last year. Not off to a great start so far this year, but that's all built into our guidance as we provided it.

Tom, just one last thing regarding on the pro side of things, field inventory is still very low, historically low for underground, specialty construction and the golf and grounds businesses. So, that's still a channel that needs to be refilled once the balance is found with demand and supply.

Net, we don't break down to the specifics of the mix. We also just -- if you think about the major ports and it goes through our dealer network as well. So, there are other elements that were not even kind of bringing into the equation here that are really key. Our dealer business has been very healthy. It's continued to grow for some time.

And -- but the net with Lowe's will be a benefit overall for the residential business. Our desire is to continue to grow with all of our partners. So, we will continue to work on that with every -- all of our gas and dealer partners look for differentiated product mixes for them. And work to continue to grow that, but net effect with Lowe's would be a positive for residential.

Should be consistent, it's not a big swing in either direction.

Yes, Eric, I'll take this one. So if you think relative to our employee initiatives, this is different. This is really laser focused on productivity and cost improvement. And if there is something that's unique and why now is the right time, we're coming out of a period out of the pandemic where it's been difficult to do some of that work, particularly with our supply base. Efficiency within our manufacturing plants, and we are now back at a point where we can go back to our focus on improving productivity within the plants, working with our supply base to improve pricing. The whole go-to-market portion that Angie mentioned in her prepared remarks of taking cost out of that and the scale to be able to leverage some of our costs. So now is the perfect time. It's something that cuts across everything else we do, and it helps us enable the other things that we're doing.

It's not driven by any particular external factor, which it's always nicely a key to being competitive to be able to have options from our pricing standpoint. But it's not driven or triggered by a particular external factor that helps us be more competitive is one thing we can say. I just would to clarify. We have one year left of our employee initiative drive for five. We've left those stretch goals out there for 2024. That's an internal employee number, and we'll launch a new employee initiative that we'll announce in December of next year, so next year at this time.

I wouldn't read too much into at this point, we just had the first housing starts, for example, has some correlation to residential business. We see a little bit of retail activity that's more positive. But this is a very low portion of the year for the bulk of our residential products. We're just giving -- there's a few tiny signs of improvement there. And the biggest factor for us is not going to be given so much of the retail, but it's what's between retail and us in that case. So, I just early signs, which I would not draw too many conclusions from but slightly positive.

I think it relates to something we probably haven't mentioned as often, but we really have a market-based approach to pricing. So we get the price in the market that's relative to features, innovation, customer value. And this is the -- in our guidance reflects the total of that across all the markets.

So, the first part of your question, the results are really the effect of doing what we do. So it's the combination of many disciplines within the Toro Company, really focused on our integrated supply chain team and incredible work that was done in our plants to get additional work output. That was based on a healthier supply base and more consistent supply of components without really enable that.

If you break down the capacity question, that's really a split answer. So in areas where we see an inflection in growth rate going forward, underground construction et cetera, we are adding structural capacity to be able to support that into the future. We see a different growth rate than probably a historical growth rate in those areas.

In areas that we know that we're going to return to a more typical glide path, it's like golf and grounds we're working not to add structural capacity that we would regret and instead using our existing capacity in a flexible way. So shifting production between facilities, working more extended hours, et cetera, that's really the solutions that we're looking for, for those businesses that we expect to return to more traditional growth rates.
