Riyals McMullian
Flowers Foods, Inc. (FLO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Rob, let me start, and Steve can certainly fill in. So from a gross margin standpoint, we expect better results. We saw a nice gross margin increase in the fourth quarter, and we expect that to continue. A couple of other factors, though, to think about impacting bottom line performance. One, we are investing in the business. So whether that's ERP or our marketing investments, et cetera, behind Dave's and Nature's Own and the new bar launches and everything, we are spending more marketing dollars investing in the business. So that will somewhat pressure margins from an EBITDA or bottom line standpoint. But obviously, those were intended to fuel future growth and our investments we're happy to make. But we would expect some improvement in gross margin.

But one other thing to note, somewhat offsetting that, we talked in the prepared remarks about stranded overhead from the strategic exits. That does, particularly from a labor standpoint effect those margins somewhat. However, the exciting thing about that for us is the opportunity we have ahead to refill that capacity with higher margin volume, which was the intention all along. Now obviously, that will come all at once. It will take a little bit of patience. But we've got a really significant opportunity ahead of us to refill that extreme low margin business that we've exited with much more profitable business.

Steve, do you want to add?

Yes. Look, it's a fair point. And it's clearly obvious the category continues to be under pressure and with private label trade down. But if you look at our market share performance, it's been quite admirable what we've been able to do even in this environment. Now certainly, we understand that market share performance in a declining category doesn't necessarily translate in the bottom line profitability, but it does show the investments that we're making in our brands enable us to continue relative strong performance in a pressured category.

Now as to the volume outlook for the year, I don't disagree with you. I mean there's certainly a possibility as the market adjusts to sort of post-pandemic reality that the category finds it’s equilibrium, which is what I think it's trying to do. And we could see more positive volume performance in the second half.

But at the same time, part of our reason for caution is the offset of what a higher promotional environment could look like in that circumstance. I mean if the category in order to drive unit volume, decides it needs to become more promotional, then that could be an offset. The other thing that I would note though is our volume performance continued to improve throughout '23.

And we finished the year with branded retail volume only down 30 basis points, which was a substantial improvement and overall volume improved. We were down, I think, 2.4 in the fourth quarter as opposed to 4.1 if you look back to the third quarter. So the sequence has been good, and so that's certainly a reason for optimism, which I think we're capturing at the upper end of guidance. But again, just given the uncertainty and the relative weakness of the category, we thought caution was prudent at least at this point.

Yes. So we've already announced what the settlement will be in terms of cost of the company. I think probably the more relevant answer to your question is what happens post March 1 if the settlement is approved? And what will happen, if that is the case, is that we will then set about converting all of the distributors in California to an employee-based model. That is at least out the gate, likely to be somewhat dilutive to our results out in California at least in the short term until we can get everybody trained up, et cetera, bring all the employees on. The good news there is, though, it will be a phased-in approach, Rob. So we have 12 months from the date of the settlement to get that done. So we'd expect -- I think we said in the prepared remarks, probably first quarter of '25, that conversion should be complete.

Yes. So I think we've mentioned this a couple of times on prior quarter calls, but good question. I'd like to discuss it some more. So clearly, pricing has been important in both of those areas, all of those areas, private label food service and the cake business. And we've also, as you know, done some pretty significant SKU rationalization and strategic business exits, primarily in foodservice and cake, but also a little bit in private label.

However, the profitability of all three of those businesses has improved markedly. So the strategy is working from that standpoint. And obviously, there are offsets in other parts of the business, the soft variety and white bread area, Bill, as you know, is the most susceptible to private label trade down. So obviously, that's a negative. And then offset by the DKB performance in terms of unit volume. But frankly, even DKB's profitability was down last year pretty significantly because we had substantially higher organic wheat cost last year.

Now the margins are still very attractive for Dave's. I know we don't disclose particular numbers there, but still among the highest in the portfolio. But they were down roughly 500 basis points last year just because of the increased organic wheat costs, which this year will moderate somewhat. So we'll recapture some of that. So really good progress on those parts of the business, somewhat offset by category weakness in commodity cost and those effects on other parts of the business.

Yes. So as we noted in the prepared remarks, really pleased with the results in '23. We got a lot more stores than we had targeted. First of all, it's a great product. And we think that's what differentiates us. I mean that's what differentiates the loaf items and the breakfast items, it's just the superior quality. It's a baked bar, great flavor and texture, great nutritional panel on it. A lot of the bars in that category are cold-pressed. So we have more of that fresh baked flavor, which you can -- if you've tried them, you can certainly attest to. But you are right about shelf space. I mean we're only three SKUs on the shelf. And so positioning is really important.

And what we're seeing where our positioning is strong, kind of middle, high level on the shelf even with those three SKUs, the standout colors we have are really drawing consumers to the brand, whether they're current DKB shoppers or they're new to the brand, which is net incremental to the DKB consumer base. I do think it's going to help us tremendously as we bring in the three additional protein SKUs this year, giving us more visibility on the shelf. And as we said before, those protein bars in test market are proving incremental to the first three SKUs. So we're kind of reaching a wider consumer base with that higher protein offering. So velocities are in line with the categories, so we're all good there. We can always do better. And we will get better. We said many times, we're treating this as a start-up business. We're learning a bit as we go to build. But so far, so good.

And of course, behind that, we've got a nice innovation pipeline four days coming with the snack bites in the back half and even more beyond that in '25. So we're off to a good start. We've got nice momentum. The team is excited. Consumers and retailers alike are excited about it. So we're feeling really good about where we are so far. It's early days, but we're in good shape.

Yes. Jim, definitely the former. We've seen this in our category before. We haven't seen it in a long time. And even though as we noted in our remarks, we even promoted a bit more in the fourth quarter just because, as you know, there is seasonality in our business not being a big dinner roll supplier that the fourth quarter can be a little bit volatile. So we promoted a bit more to drive more unit volume, got good effectiveness out of those promotions, but we also didn't spend nearly as much in trade to get it and maintained one of the highest average price points in the category. But yes, the caution is much more around the other competitors in the space than it is pressure from retailers, which we really have not felt to date.

Yes. I mean it could be either. I think that's just going to need to be a wait and see and monitor the environment and react accordingly.

Yes. Most of it is still going to be in business exits. And I do want to note if folks didn't pick up on it in the prepared remarks, barring something unforeseen, we do expect this to be the last year of strategic exits. I mean, we're done with what we wanted to do. And I mentioned earlier that what we're thrilled about is the opportunity we have in front of us and believe me, there is a lot of opportunity to go back and refill that capacity with higher-margin business, which will not only drive profitability, but go a long way to help bring the unit volume back up. But you are correct, it is first half weighted. You'll see most of that effect in the first half. And then as we move into the back half, it would be much less significant. And then, again, that should be it.

Yes. So as we said, we do expect gross margin improvement this year. And you're right, some of it will be the commodity moderation. There's puts and takes there. Flowers better. There are some other cost buckets that are up. But net-net, we expect to see overall gross margin improvement to that. And frankly, also aided by all the things that you just said, baker of the future delivering better OEE results. And then some of that will -- what we've experienced is that's been somewhat offset by primarily labor. And that is some of that stranded overhead costs showing up.

And again, I want to emphasize that's temporary because we will refill that capacity and eventually, that will go away. But right now, it is a little bit of a strain. And then as you move down the P&L, thinking about marketing and ERP costs, little bit of labor and SG&A to that where some of that stranded overhead shows up is what's pressuring the EBITDA margin line a bit, at least at this time, though. Again, we expect, as we go through the year and then particularly into '25 for all of those things to improve as we refill that capacity and cover the stranded cost.

Yes. I think it's a great question. And it's timely because that really showed up in the fourth quarter. If you look at the syndicated data, you'll see, as I said, that we had among the highest average prices in the category. And yet our units on promotion were up a bit. We did promote more. But we did so much more effectively and with much less trade spend than we might have historically needed to use really good display execution in support of those promotions. And for the first time in a while, actually saw a nice lift and got a good return off of those promotions. And for the past few years, we've been talking about how promotions have not been very effective, not seeing a lot of lift from them. But in the fourth quarter, for the first time in a while we did. So that trade promotion management tool that you referenced is enabling us to be a lot more effective when we do promote.

Yes, not stronger and weaker than expected, but we continue to really do well in the Northeast. It's a great growth market for us. We've talked in the past, Mitch, about what a share point is worth up there, some $35 million or so at retail, and we still got a lot of room to grow. So when you think about opportunities for future growth, whether it's there, Pac Northwest, still on the West Coast and in particularly the upper Midwest where we're really not present. We're excited about the prospects we have in front of us. Retailer excitement about having us move into those areas, et cetera, bringing Nature's Own, Dave's and Canyon to those consumers. There's still quite a bit of headroom left for us.

No, we're ready when the right opportunity comes along, and that's the key is what will that opportunity be? And when will it come? But when it does, we're absolutely ready to go. We've got plenty of dry powder despite all the things we have going on. We certainly have the capacity to do a meaningful acquisition. And as we said in the prepared remarks, we're very proactive. I'm more optimistic about M&A activity, seeing more founders and sellers that we talk to contemplating transactions. Don't know exactly when they'll come, but when they do, we'll be ready.

Connor, it was a little tough to hear you, breaking up a little bit, but I think I got the gist of it. But simply put, elasticities have remained below our forecast and below historic levels kind of across all those channels you mentioned.

Yes. I mean, the ACV is still pretty low, Connor. So we've got a lot of runway. We've got more opportunity in club. I think we mentioned convenience, which we really haven't even tapped into yet. We started in our areas of strength in mass and grocery. So we've still got a lot of runway ahead of us. I don't have the number in front of me, but I want to say that ACV is somewhere still in the 30s. Is that directionally right?

I think that's -- we'll double-check that, but I think that's pretty close. So we've got a lot of runway. And to give you a comparable, DKB is somewhere in the 75-ish ballpark from an ACV standpoint, just to give you something to compare it to.

Okay. Norma, thank you. I just want to thank everybody for taking time today and joining us for questions. We very much appreciate your interest in our company. And as always, we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. Everybody, take care.

Thanks, Norma.
