RJ Sheedy
Grocery Outlet Holding Corp. (GO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll take the first part of that and then kick it over to Charles for the second part of your question. Yes, we're really excited about this acquisition. A lot of things that we like about it. First I'd say is companies are a great match. We have a shared mission of touching lives and serving customers. We have similar business models, store size, shared customer value propositions around shared customer value propositions around unbeatable value and the treasure hunt experience, all that supported by opportunistic sourcing and localized assortment. So, just a lot of similarities between the two businesses.

This is a growth acquisition and a lot of benefits there related to growth. United Grocery Outlet already is a healthy growing business across the six states in the Southeast where they operate. We, in addition to just continued growth of that business, we believe that we have several levers by which we can accelerate growth in the United Grocery Outlet stores.

Just a few examples here, one, expanding the assortment, we think a nice opportunity there. Two, would be to enhance the store experience through investments in fixtures and signage and technology. Also looking to make additional investments in marketing to continue to drive traffic and growth in that region. And then I mentioned in my comments, we also believe that there are benefits to introducing the operator model to this region as well. So a lot there to be [Technical Difficulty] we think can help the grocery outlet business. They have a bigger fresh meat assortment, so something for us to learn from. They of course have relationships with regional suppliers, and then we think we can take advantage of and then some other unique operating practices that we look forward to learning from.

Another benefit that I mentioned here is the infrastructure that comes with the deal. It provides us infrastructure in an adjacent region to our current East footprint. It's a great entry point for us into the Southeast. It's great infrastructure to support future growth as we continue to pursue this tremendous white space opportunity that we have. And when you think about the infrastructure that comes with this deal together with the platform that we already have up in the mid-Atlantic region, we now have a lot of the Eastern U.S. covered in terms of infrastructure for supporting future growth.

And then lastly, I'd say from an infrastructure standpoint, a nice benefit here expected as far as opportunistic buying goes and giving us better access to product that in this region, an advantage there for having local presence to land product locally. And Charles, do you want to touch on?

I'll take the first part and then Charles can touch on part of your question as well. Yes, as I mentioned, we are excited about the infrastructure here United Grocery Outlet operates a multi temperature DC. And so that we think will serve us well both, of course, supporting growth in existing stores and then also to your question, as we think about future new store growth.

We our immediate focus right now is on integration. So we don't have immediate plans to accelerate sort of growth beyond what the United Grocery Outlet team already had planned. So we'll do the work together with the UGO team to proceed on that integration plan. And then as we look forward, the Southeast region, lot of potential for growth there. The existing DC can support growth for the next, call it, several years from a new growth store growth standpoint.

And then similar to how we manage across the entire network and across all of our points of distribution center and infrastructure, we'll make the necessary investments in that to support future store growth. But again, love the volume that it provides us, love the scale that it provides us and love the entry point into this region of the country which will support a lot of future stores.

They are not, no.

We do, yes. We do think, of course, the IO model is super important to our business and important part of our value proposition. We think those benefits will all apply to the Southeast region as well. We are still getting to know the business, the individual stores. We're putting integration plans in place as we speak. We just announced the deal right a little over a week ago. So we're now working together with the United Grocery Outlet team on those plans. But yes, we do think about introducing the operator model to these stores as well.

Sure. Yes. We've been focused on delivering the 10% annual store growth this year. We've talked about that throughout. And on the past few calls, we've also talked about pursuing this growth across several fronts, right? Organic growth, of course, but also consideration of opportunistic real estate. We have some new exciting strategic relationships we've built and then these regional acquisition opportunities that we've been considering as well. And all of these activities combined would represent 10%.

As we started to see progress on the United Grocery Outlet acquisition, we were able to manage and moderate some of the other activities with this 10% goal in mind. And keep in mind that real estate is just one part of successfully opening new stores, right? We were super mindful of infrastructure needed to support them. Of course, there's operator recruiting readiness, there's marketing and there are a lot of other things that go into opening stores successfully.

And so, we were able to make those modifications and we love where we're at. We've got 55 to 60 new stores planned this year, okay, it's a little bit ahead of the 10% growth. But for the work that we've done and the plans that are in place, we're excited about the integration work with the 40 as well as the 15 to 20 that we will open organically.

We're excited to be getting to the point here where we will be introducing these new items and brands later this year. And as you know, we've been spending a lot of time building capabilities and setting the strategy and the foundation this past year. So exciting for us to be at the point here soon, where we'll have these new items being introduced to the store. .

These items will be an enhancement to our everyday assortment, provide better value for customers, better shopping experience, better baskets and then also better margin for the business. So, a lot of things to be excited for there.

As I mentioned in my comments, second half of the year is when we'll start introducing these items to the store and we have this goal of 100 new items by the end of the year. The initial focus will be in more commodity categories where and -- we have a nice opportunity to offer better value and again, margin and some of the items that we're currently carrying.

And I'll just give you a few examples for where you start to see some of these initial items, water will be one of the first ones. We've got some nice opportunities in items lined up within the baking category, pasta category and cheese as well. So those are just a few. We've got others, of course, on the list that will be part of the 100 items.

And then in addition to some of these commodity categories, also planning to introduce, I'll call them more differentiated items and where NOSH is a great opportunity here, items that can just further strengthen the treasure hunt experience can further differentiate us and also serve as another point of well, differentiation and destination for customers that are shopping our stores.

So a lot there for us to like, still just the beginning. This is going to be a longer journey, but at least excited to be taking this first big step in getting this initial wave of products out to the stores and to our customers.

It's good. Yes, we continue to be encouraged by the pipeline of opportunistic product. It continues to be broad-based across categories. There was a lot of positive momentum throughout all of last year through to the end of the year and that's all carried forward through the first quarter so far I mean, we think carries forward through this year.

And as far as just some of the trends we've talked about in the past, forecasting continues to be hard. So that contributes to opportunistic supply. Yes, product innovation continues to be healthy and increase in -- as suppliers introduce new items and they extend brands and there's branded label changes and packaging changes, those are all beneficial from the surplus inventory standpoint.

And then just generally, changes in assortment and products are favorable. And so there continues to be a lot of dynamic factors to the supply environment. So all those have us feeling pretty good about what we're seeing currently and what's in front of us here through the rest of the year.

I'm going to start with your second question, and then I'll come back to the first part of your question. The Amelia's acquisition was a long time ago. Many things have changed in our business since then. I will note some similarities between that acquisition and this one, similar business model, value propositions, shared values for how we operate in both cases. So that's certainly similar. Both are providing us with infrastructure to support growth in a new region. In the case of Amelia's, it was really an entry point to the East Coast and here now a new region in the East Coast, but both coming with stores and distribution centers, local team that we'll continue operating the business those are all very helpful for entry into a new geography.

And then, this point about providing better access to opportunistic supply. We saw that play out in a really positive way with Amelia's and we expect that to be the same for product that is local within that region in the case of United Grocery Outlet. So a lot of similarities there.

In terms of -- a lot of differences as well, just in terms of store count and other parts of operation, but probably more similarities than not. In terms of timing and integration, Again, we are really just starting to work through integration planning together with the United Grocery Outlet team as it hasn't been that long since the deal has been announced.

First, I'd say it's a healthy growing business. So our top priority is to maintain current business momentum and be smart about how we begin to integrate it and how we think about prioritizing and sequencing and timing for some of these growth opportunities.

And that -- getting to your question around the operator model, but it would also apply to rebranding and other things that we might do, we want to make sure that we've got a well-integrated plan, and we're doing and making these changes in the right cadence, not the right pace relative to the ongoing business and making sure we're striking a healthy balance there.

Think about the activation of a lot of these accelerated growth opportunities that are taking place over the next couple of years. There are things that we would want to get in place prior to any rebranding or conversion. Some of the near-term opportunities would be around expanding the assortment, some of the investments that we want to make into the stores, and you get some of those things in place.

And then following that, we would think about sequencing the rebranding and then also some of the opportunities which will need to be store-specific, need to be thoughtful about how we do this as far as introducing the operator model. But that wouldn't happen, at least as far as the operator -- opportunities go wouldn't happen in this first year. Think of that as starting really in the second year and then following a period of time similar to Amelia's where we would look to introduce that over time and on a store-specific basis.

So, no impact from private label, a small number of items rolling them out later in the year. So not meaningful to margin. From an opportunistic standpoint, I'd say, stable, which is favorable. Those nice trends that I talked about as they contributed in 2023, we expect to contribute similarly to gross margin in 2024.

And then longer term, continue to operate this business for stable margins, always looking to -- that back into value and driving customer trips, both acquisition and retention and frequency. And we continue to see some really nice trends there. So we like this balance that we have between the value that we're delivering and of course, the margin that is being delivered to the P&L. So that continues to be the approach.

Yes, you're exactly right. We are seeing higher CapEx costs today than we were really the $2 million number ties back to when we brought the business public in 2019. And so clearly, it's a different inflationary environment today versus then. So yes, everything labor materials, equipment has had an impact. Probably in total, we're seeing new store costs about 25% higher than where we were at the time of IPO.

That said, we've got a number of levers that we're actively working on to reduce costs, everything from value engineering. The build-out to strategic sourcing and both purchasing of equipment. I will say that when you look at the store model and the returns, it's store volume and product profitability that have a much bigger impact on returns relative to CapEX and so continue to be pleased with the volumes and the profitability we're driving from new stores.

And so while the recent vintages are seeing as higher construction costs, it is not weighing down our returns in a meaningful way. You can think about it as really having about a 5 point impact on sort of mature year for ROIC. So that's come down from 35%, but still really a healthy, roughly 30% based on current construction cost.

Thanks, everyone, for your time today and we look forward to talking with you again on future calls. Appreciate it. Take care. .