Rob Goldstein
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Joe.

Grant can say also – Grant, why I ask is it fair to say transportation and Visa, the whole lubricant that supplies the market into Macao is getting better year after COVID. It seems to me as if the ability to get the desire is there, but also the ability that this improving daily. Is that fair to say?

Thank you, Joe. Thank you very much.

Yes.

Yes. I think we'll turn over to Grant for that comment. Grant, Londoner?

Stephen, just to follow on Grant's comments. I understand the market is concerned about London disruption. It's a valid point. However, two thoughts for you. One is that I think if the market continues to accelerate like we're seeing January market numbers, perhaps we can overcome that by using other assets in the portfolio.

But secondly, to Grant's comment, I think when you see the eventual transformation of Londoner, it will be a juggernaut on par with the -- or beyond. So it gives us two assets we think can probably make $3 billion by themselves. And while there's disruption 2024, 2025 in Beyond gives us something that's unique in that market. The number one and two assets are number one in on assets in that market for years to come. So, there may be some disruption but maybe market force can overcome that, but I think the end result is well worth the pain.

Go ahead, Patrick. I'll follow yours. Go ahead.

I think Patrick's comments are spot on, Steve. We have limited -- we have capacity constrained building in MBS. Unfortunately, we only have so many rooms suites, which we got 10 times as much, but we don't. So the mass market tourism is as important to us as the right tourists in the market.

We look at this asset as a $2 billion asset today annualized EBITDA, but we believe it can grow 10% to 20% over the next three to four years. And then hopefully, we can finalize our plans with the government once the government blesses another building, we believe that, that could open later this year and make us a $3 billion projected EBITDA by end of decade in Singapore.

So we see ourselves now at $2 billion, going to $2.2, billion, $2.3 billion, $2.4 billion and eventually stepping up to $3 billion. We see huge growth in this asset. It's just beginning. We got obviously hampered by COVID, but to watch it growing is growing. Our only disappointment in Singapore is we just don't have more space, because it's a very desirable market and that building probably the most valuable in hotel building ever built in the world and will just accelerate in the next three, to four, five years until hopefully, we can tell you a finality, we have a deal in Phase II.

Thank you.

I'll just reiterate how much we believe in Singapore as a market. My comment is about $3 billion. We actually believe retainable when we opened this new building late in the decade. As for the update, Patrick's been right in the middle of that. So Patrick please take it away in terms of Phase II Singapore.

Thank you, Carlo. Appreciate it.

Grant? Shaun, that was good by the way. Thank you.

Shaun, can I just follow up on Grant's comments. My experience has always been the same. Regardless of the market, great buildings and great experiences always prevail. We have those in Macao. If you look at our EBITDA in Q3, I believe our EBITDA exceeded our next two contenders combined, which is quite a statement to the power of our buildings. There will be promotional issues occasionally here and there, so in the end, we have a structural advantage, which can't be undermined. We have more capacity for lodging, food and beverage, retail entertainment and gaming capacity [indiscernible] by a bunch, and that will enable us to avail both a margin and EBITDA basis. And so yes, there will be occasionally a promotional issue here and there, but it really shouldn't concern as far as our business. Our margins remain intact, and our dominance remain intact in all segments in Macao.

Thank you. Appreciate it.

If you look at your deck on, I think it's Page 28 and 29, it gives you a pretty good look at our retail portfolio in Asia and be blunt about it, how it could be in half of these numbers, almost $3,000 a foot and a 600,000-foot more at MBS. Finished $2,000 a foot with 800,000 feet, of course, $9,200 a foot at the Four Seasons luxury and a mere $4,200 a foot on the non-luxury, so the answer is we are seeing our retail portfolio that's approaching $700 million of contribution and growing.

Of course, there's discussions out, they'll be mentioned a slowdown globally. But it looks to me that I spoke to David, because they are retail experts. It feels like we continue to see opportunity to remerchandize and get better and better at the retail segment. We still believe that retail is a long way to go.

Our buildings are a little different than other retail and that we attract a higher value customer both in Macao and Singapore, as you reference the lack of supply in Singapore. So I think that mall just keeps appreciating and we keep re-merchandizing it to be more effective every day, more luxurious, more upscale.

In Macao, we've got work cut out for us in some of our buildings, not there yet in the Parisian. There's some work to be done, but I don’t know how you could argue with these kind of results, $677 million of contribution, and it just keeps accelerating. It compares very favorably with 2019. So we feel very bullish about our retail prospects.

And again, it takes work. David Sylvester constantly remerchandize read things and reassesses the portfolio. He's got a lot of work to do. But the numbers, I think, are stellar and I think we'll continue to be stellar for years to come.

I think it's safe to say this business always runs on mathematics. The mathematics prevail, and I wouldn't take three quarters as an ongoing trend forever. There'll be a dark day in Singapore will miss by $70 million, because we take the highest volume players in the world, people who bet lots of money. And some days, it goes with you and someday it doesn't. This quarter, obviously, in Singapore went with us. But I would caution you, I don't think that the betters are changing. In fact, if any of the there's more of them, more affluence coming out of Asia, and we're fortunate enough to have the capacity to handle all of it.

But I don't think you can point to a change in betting patterns in either jurisdiction that would elevate or hurt the whole percentage. It will be revert the mean always. And Macao will come back next quarter probably and do $70 million higher and Singapore may have a bad quarter.

Grant, do you have any comment on that? That's how I see it.

And Chad, going back yeah, just to find going back, I don't know, maybe eight, 10 years ago, we had a horrific number of quarters in a row due to a few players, I think, was Indonesia or Malaysia and we lost obscene amounts of money quarter after quarter to them. And some people on our Board were concerned as they want to be sure. And we talk -- we looked at everything, and we're very comfortable. And there is a belief therefore a while that these people were magical and could be beaten and they lost back their entire winnings and then some.

It always goes that way. I don't think you can ever get too emotional about this quarter, it's very interesting to see the Macao miss and the Singapore overachieving. But in the end, the games stay consistent, pairs and ties versus straight bets do matter. But the Asian gambler is special. And he or she shows up consistently and they're great customers. I wouldn't let the success of a few quarters change your views on the mathematics of backlog. We don't. So thank you.

I'll take New York first, Robin. The governor, Governor Hochul, I think it was this week commented on seeing something happen this year. I hope that's true. We're -- as you know, are -- we've been working in New York for quite a long time. And we think we have a very compelling bid. But we don't have any great insight if that will happen. We sure hope the Governor is correct. And either way, win or lose we’ll get decision in calendar year 2024. That's our hope. But I think it'd be [indiscernible] any insight beyond the governor's comments.

I think we just -- we worked very hard on this project. We believe we have a really good chance of getting one, but I don't give you -- I couldn't give you any guidance beyond that.

Grant, Chinese New Year. Do you think he'll be any there for that? Will the year of the dragon bring anybody to the building?

Robin, I do think, Robin, I think December was really great tell what might happen in Chinese -- December numbers that closed were just terrific. And again, you see the market numbers for January. So we're very hopeful that the year of Dragon is a huge year for us into the market.

Patrick, do you want to grab that?

When you say non-gaming, can you be more specifically talking about retail, food and beverage, hotels?

Oh, I see. Okay. I'm going to let Grant handle that, but I would say we are a little bit different than the rest of our competitors in terms of we've been spending money aggressing Macao forever for 20 years on entertainment and other things. We believe it's a huge value add.

I'll let Grant take the question specifically. But I think, again, it's important to note, we are a different animal than other people in terms of this concession. We welcome it. We've been doing it before the concession mandate. I think it's been very beneficial to our company. Grant?

I'm sorry, George, I think we missed that. Could you repeat yourself? It was unclear there was some difficult -- static, yes. Can you try again, George, about Macao?

Grant, do you want to handle the fourth quarter turnover to retail.

Before we finalize the call, I want to reach out and recognize the great contributions of Wilfred Wong, who is now Executive Vice Chair. Wilfred has been with us about eight years and made a great contribution. And Wilfred, congratulations on the elevation of Executive Vice Chair.

Grant Chum, well deserved. We hired Grant many years ago, the big concern was, was he old enough to win the casino at that time? And over the years, he's aged insufficiently, so he did not win the casino. Congratulations to you Grant. Both of you guys have built a terrific team over there. We're very proud and grateful for your efforts and look forward to many more years working together.

Thank you for your time today and interest in our company. We bid you adieu.