Rob Saltiel
MRC Global Inc. (MRC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Good morning, Nathan.

Yes, Nathan, I'll jump in here. Look, we've talked about this before that we've had the disagreement previously on the previous attempt to refinance the term loan, and we continue to remain in discussions about the opportunities to get through that if, in fact, we decide to go to the market for a refinancing. I think one of the things that we've been pleasantly surprised with is how much cash generation we've actually been able to deliver.

As Kelly said, we've talked about this for quite some time that we need to be able to demonstrate we can generate cash across the cycle, and to do so in, I would say, pretty large amounts, given the comment you made when we opened the call. And I'm really proud of the fact that our team has been able to do that. It's obviously a combination of profitability of the business. Our team has done a great job on collections and reducing our day sales outstanding, and making sure as well that we're more efficient with our inventory, that we can generate more revenue and more profitability with less inventory, which is a key metric when you're in the distribution business.

So all those things lining up have really demonstrated we can generate a lot of cash. And in fact, we're generating so much cash that we can basically pay off the term loan with a combination of cash and pulling on the ABL without any necessity of refinancing. Now, opportunistically, to the extent that we have a resolution with the disagreement with the preferred shareholder, we could consider doing exactly what you say, which is taking out an additional financing vehicle to do some other things, potentially with returning cash to shareholders. But at this point in time, the base case is we use a combination of the ABL and cash to retire the Term Loan B in September.

Good morning, Ken.

Yes, and if I could jump in. We've really spent a lot of time focusing on inventory efficiency. I mean, inventory is where the distributor puts his or her capital dollars and that has to be an efficient metric for us. In fairness, I don't think we focused on that as much as maybe we could have or should have in previous years. And we've done a lot of centralization of the decision-making around inventory purchases and we're making sure that any inventory that we add to our system will absolutely pay for itself and then some.

And so, I think going forward, you're just going to see the manifestation of that change in outlook and focus on inventory management to increase our turn rates and just make sure we have more productive, more profitable inventory, which again is a key driver of the working capital efficiency measure.

Well, we think it's a little premature on this call to talk about all the things that we're going to be doing four quarters from now. But we did want to give you as investors some insight to how we're thinking about the capital structure and the flexibility that we're going to have that frankly, we've never had as a public company to really consider these things and not over-lever ourselves. But we're -- you know, we're going to keep a really open mind about how that balance sheet is managed and what is the right level of leverage for us.

You know, you asked the question about where's the preferred. You know, currently, the interest or the dividend that we pay and the interest -- the 6.5% coupon that's on that preferred. That's a pretty attractive financing right now in today's market, at least with where interest rates are today, and even accounting for the lack of a tax shield. Going forward, if interest rates get reduced, then maybe the dividend looks a little more expensive than it does today.

But right now, we really haven't made any decisions about how and whether the preferred needs to be taken out. Again, we've got a lot more flexibility than we've ever had before, and we'll consider that as we go forward. Certainly, you know, one thing that we do want to give some shareholders some reassurance on is that we certainly would try to avoid any kind of a dilution event of conversion of the preferred into common stock.

Obviously, the stock price has got to move a bit more from where it is today. So that's something that shareholders should have in their mind. But look, if we find ourselves in a position where we've got enough cash to fund growth, enough cash potentially to return to common, and additionally we see an attractive opportunity to take out the preferred, we'll certainly look to do that.

Yes. I would say, it's early days to really assess what's happened on that yet. Clearly, it feels a little bit like an election year action, given the importance of LNG exports to many of our allies around the world, and the fact that the US still has abundant supplies of natural gas that is cheap and can be transported safely and reliably around the world. So we think LNG is going to continue to be a strong growth vehicle for the country and then, frankly, for our DIET sector.

The projects that we're already involved in that don't involve shipping LNG to non-FTA members, those are obviously going forward. And then going on the projects that are under consideration, at this point, we really haven't seen any direct effects of that on our business, but obviously, we'll watch the space as we go forward. We hope this is a temporal issue that works itself out, because, again, we're bullish on LNG, and this is a great growth opportunity for MRC Global.

You're welcome.

Good morning.

Yes, I mean, look, we're -- we recognize that as revenues stagnate or potentially even fall a little bit from '23 to '24, that we really need to make sure that our cost structure reflects that. And we've identified a number of initiatives, some of which I talked about generally in the prepared comments, for how we can reduce our SG&A this year.

We're really looking at kind of single-digit reduction. So this is not a massive reduction because we're looking at 2024 as a transition year. We fully expect that we're going to get back on a growth trajectory. So we're not looking to take a -- really a significant reduction in SG&A, which then would cause us to not be in position to capitalize on the growth we expect in 2025.

But as a practical matter, you know, we obviously are expecting slower wage growth this year. I think everybody is seeing that across industry and certainly here in the US. We've mentioned that professional fees, some of our travel and entertainment expenses, overtime, all those things potentially can come down with lower activity or flat activity relative to what we'd expected previously.

Logistics costs we think we can reduce as well through some additional efficiencies in our regional distribution center network. So we're going to be looking at a new RDC in the Atlanta area that's going to give us some savings on freight costs. So we got a number of things identified which will take that number down.

Again, I think you should really focus on kind of low single-digit reduction in the SG&A in aggregate. But that's the kind of reduction that given we're going to be flat to slightly down on revenue, at least we anticipate that, that will allow us to maintain that 7% EBITDA margin. And we think that's really important for shareholders and something that we want to make sure that we preserve as we move through this transition year.

Well, Canada, to be fair, has been a bit of a challenge for us in terms of the revenue profile and for a couple of reasons. I think you see that a lot of the larger players in Canada that we typically serve are not as active in that market as they are in, let's say, some other upstream markets like the Permian Basin. So that's been the challenge for us. And, you know, it's a very competitive market as well.

And so, you know, we are seeing the start to the year, as Kelly mentioned, you know, increasing in backlog and we say across all segments. So that includes Canada. So we are seeing some really nice stuff up there to start the year. We're also seeing some attractive projects, some of which fall in the energy transition space up there as well. So there are some good things happening in Canada. But before we get too excited about the Canadian market, we just need to make sure that we can consistently generate revenue and profitable revenue up there. And what has been historically or recently historically for us has been a pretty tough market.

Yes, look, we -- we're going to look at various capital allocation strategies and we're a big belief that -- big believers that growing our business is important to shareholders as well. Obviously, any M&A that we would consider or undertake has to be really thoughtful and absolutely accretive to the story and to the financials of the company. We're big believers that if you can get scale economies in a business that, that is certainly a really good way to gain market share and also to have some synergies right out of the gate in terms of cost reduction, but -- and then opportunities potentially to expand the scope of services that we provide, those kind of things are fair game as well.

But I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves in terms of saying that we've got a very, let's say, well-developed M&A plan around particular acquisitions. We continue to look at the market and see what makes sense. Again, it's going to have to be a high hurdle for any significant M&A to really make our cut, because we're really conscious of the fact that we've got, you know, to do right by our shareholders in terms of making sure that they share in the bounty that we're now developing through all this cash generation.

So I would just say, stay tuned on that. And as and when we see deals that make sense for this company, we'll certainly be happy to share those thoughts when they're developed.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you.