Rob Fauber
Moody's Corporation (MCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I might start by -- maybe I'll just give you a little more insight into kind of what's in those three main components, and then we'll talk about some of the timing and margin impact. As it relates to GenAI, we've got a generative intelligence team, we've stood up an MCO infrastructure, we've got some incremental engineering costs, we've got additional licenses. I mentioned, GitHub Copilot. We will get the benefit of that, but we had costs upfront. And of course, we have incremental cloud costs and token costs relating to large language models. On the product development side, really, it's about the build-out of our customer and supplier risk offerings for the corporate and public sector and that's data, workflow and go-to-market. And then on technology and platforming, as we talk about building out that MA platform, it's things like engineering around single sign-on and entitlement. So as I said, we can get those benefits faster. Let me turn that over to Caroline and see if you want to just help George around the timing of all of that.

So maybe a couple of ways to kind of triangulate around this. I think as far back as 2022, you remember, we had that significant decline in issuance from the pandemic years. On the call, I talked about how total -- when we look at total global issuance, it was modestly below what was a, I'll call it kind of a 10 year average from, at the time it was, I think, 2012 to '22, excluding the two pandemic years. And I think total issuance in 2022 was something like 5% below that average. So it's not a big number. And remember, that was in the context of like a 30% decline in issuance that year. But we drilled down, and I think we made the point that corporate issuance was something like 15% below that long term average excluding the pandemic. And if you actually drilled even further and got into leverage finance, it's even farther. And as you know, corporate issuance, and in particular leveraged finance issuance, is quite favorable to our revenue mix. So it's interesting, Toni. Now as you as you kind of go forward and when you look at where 2023 ended relative to that average, it's roughly in line. Corporate issuance was closer to in line, I'd say, modestly below that long term. And with 2024, actually issuance will be slightly above that long term average, and that holds true for corporate issuance, where obviously, we have a little bit stronger growth expectations.

So from that aspect, I think you might say, well, we're getting back to something that feels more like a normalized level of issuance. The caveat to that, I guess, this idea of debt velocity. So over that period of time, there's been an enormous amount of debt issued, right? So the stock of debt has grown significantly. And when we look at annual issuance as a percent of the total stock outstanding, that's what we think of debt velocity. That number still looks a good bit lower than the averages over, call it, the last decade, which would imply that there's still room for issuance growth. And the last thing I'd say is if you look at where structured finance is at the moment, that's significantly below kind of that 10 year average for reasons that we may get into later in the call. Hopefully, that gives you some insight.

And I know people want to have a good sense in forming their models. So last year, as Mike said, issuance was more front end loaded. We had a rising rate environment, something like, I don't know, call it, 56% of 2023 annual issuance was in the first half of the year. And while we do expect a rate decline in the second half year, as Mike said, we still think that issuance will be front end loaded. And our current assumption for issuance is pretty similar to the pattern that we saw in 2023. Now then we got to translate it to MIS revenue, and the impact there is a little bit less pronounced in terms of first half, second half. And I would say that we're expecting just a little over half, maybe low 50s percent of MIS revenue in the first half. And that's a little lower than the issuance mix. Why? Because banks are the ones that tend to issue and do more front end loading of their issuance, and there are different economics for frequent bank issuers. So hopefully, that gives you a sense. One of the things, Manav, I might say, just specifically for the first quarter, I'd say we expect probably close to 30% of annual issuance and probably closer to somewhere between 25% to 30% of MIS annual revenue.

Maybe I'll start with that and then hand it to Steve. I'd say just in general, as you think about the return on these investments, I would say that we're investing in the highest growth parts of our business. So GenAI products, that's going to augment growth across our SaaS and hosted solutions. And Steve will touch on that in just a second. We're investing, as I talked about, in enhanced solutions for corporates and the public sector around customer and supplier risk. And I had a data point that we've had 14% CAGR in terms of sales growth over the last two years from those sectors. And we think we can even enhance that growth at scale as we invest in products specifically for those customer segments. And then lastly, platforming. We expect revenue growth from our SaaS and hosted solutions to grow something like low teens this year, that's in line with our medium-term targets. And the growth has been even higher in decision solutions, it's been more like high teens from SaaS and hosted solutions we're looking for this year. So yes, I think there's a pretty strong case for investment in these high growth parts of our business. But Steve?

Caroline, do you want to take that?

And while we're on the topic of -- now that we've covered MIS and MA calendarization, maybe let me just add a little bit in terms of thinking about then kind of pulling this together and thinking about what it might mean for adjusted diluted EPS. So we've got a little bit front end loaded issuance pattern that we talked about, the cadence that Caroline just touched on. From an adjusted diluted EPS standpoint, we think that the first quarter will be our strongest quarter in terms of absolute adjusted diluted EPS, followed by the second quarter. And maybe the easiest way to think about it is this. If you take the average quarterly EPS at the midpoint of our full year guide, and I think that's somewhere between $2.60 and $2.70, then given the stronger front half issuance that we've talked about, we'd expect first quarter EPS to be something like $0.15 to $0.20 higher than that average for the first quarter.

We'll get Caroline teed up on that incentive comp question. I think, Craig, commercial real estate, actually, if you think about it kind of threads through a bunch of parts of our business, in terms of impact to the ratings business and it's not just the CRE sector but the banking sector, and then the tools needed by folks in the market and sales cycle. So let me start with Mike.

There's almost like a tipping point where when there's too much stress in the banking system, it can ultimately become a headwind for us. As Steve said, when there's the need for real insight and better understanding around credit, that's a positive. And I think what we saw in March of last year was just about going over that tipping point. Caroline, do you want to answer the second part of Craig's question?

I think, Mike, why don't I hand that to you?

And we can -- if people want to get into the asset level guidance, we're happy to do that in another question. I also -- I think it was Manav that asked a question about recurring revenue in MIS, and maybe let me just come back to that. That continues to be -- our view on that is it continues to be in that kind of low to mid-single digit range for revenue. This ties in part to first time mandates. Obviously, first time mandates are what build the stock of rated issuers that we surveil. So just a little insight there. We saw a pretty significant slowdown in first time mandates since, I'd say, third quarter of 2022. The fourth quarter, first time mandates were about in line with the fourth quarter of 2022. We are expecting that to start to pick back up. And that's not surprising given what you see as our expectations for high yield and leveraged loans. And so that will support a slight uptick, I think, in recurring revenue growth for MIS.

I would say we are happy about a couple of things. One, the product development process, the work we did in engineering and product development to get this thing out happened more quickly than maybe some of our previous product launches. So we're really excited about some of the changes we've made and we were able to get to market faster, that's partially because of the fact that we're leveraging GenAI tools and partially because we have some platform engineering elements that make us able to move a little bit more quickly. So that's one good note. In terms of take-up among customers, it's early days. Oftentimes, the initial stage of the sales cycles I would measure in months. But we have more units in the first six weeks than we've seen among virtually any other product we've launched in the past. So the people are making buying decisions quickly. Remember, we started with a December 1 commercial launch. So they're making decisions within six weeks. Oftentimes, you would look at a sales cycle being measured in months. So that's a really good sign. And again, I mentioned earlier that we're really encouraged by the engagement at the senior levels, CEOs. I literally know one of the largest banks in the United States. We were the topic of conversation at the CEO's table within the last few weeks where they literally were thinking and talking about this is one of the elements in their transformation program. COOs, senior levels of investment managers and banks and insurance companies, where I'm talking to people and our sales reps are talking to people at a different level than we've seen in the past. So I would say we're very encouraged by that. Those sales cycles, I think, will go faster than maybe they might have in previous product launches. But you still need to engage with people and their technology groups, their cyber groups, their compliance groups, to make sure when you're making this big of a decision that this transformational that you've got all your bases covered. So we're pretty encouraged by that. Hopefully, that's a good sense for color on the demand environment.

So on the sales cycle -- in the spring last year, we got a lot of questions around are you seeing elongated sales cycles. And I think we gave a pretty good sense for what we were seeing. Sales cycles were lengthening maybe just a little bit, nothing material measured in a number of days perhaps, but we were also seeing higher price points in the proposal and richer value propositions composed in that proposal. So it was consistent with what we'd expect. I'd say that trend has actually extended through 2023. So we're running right around the same numbers we were in the spring. I looked at this closely the other day. So sales cycles are maybe slightly longer than they were maybe a few years ago, but only because we're seeing bigger price points and richer value proposition. So pretty happy about that. Let's see here, sales cycles, yes, that's probably a good way to finish that one, yes.

And maybe I'll also go back to fourth quarter MIS, because I think we've been getting some questions about that. And I think fourth quarter to me really illustrated the tremendous operating leverage that's in the business. If you look at -- to give you a sense of what we were seeing in the fourth quarter for MIS, and then I'll take it forward into 2024 and beyond. Revenues came in lighter than we had expected, expenses came in almost exactly online in terms of what we had budgeted. I think it was something like 1.5% expense growth over the prior year quarter. So essentially, the entire revenue miss dropped right down to adjusted operating income. And again, that's what we love about this business. And think about what was going on, this was in the last few weeks of the year, there's virtually nothing we can do in regards to the expense base at that point. The majority of our expense base in MIS is people. Also, we have obviously a constructive view on 2024 issuance. And you've heard us talk about in the past that we try to think about are things cyclical or structural, and we saw that as a brief air pocket in issuance. And so that then did -- again, that dropped right to adjusted operating income. It was not an expense issue. And then you see 200 basis points of margin expansion from that jumping off point at the end of the year.

And I would say this and, Mike, feel free to add. So we've got our low 60s percent margin target. We still feel very comfortable about that. We believe that this 200 basis points is solidly on track for that. But we are investing back in that business. I talked a little bit about in my prepared remarks, in particular, we've been investing in resources in some of these areas like domestic debt markets, like digital finance and private credit, make sure we've got the resources. And then we've also been investing in the technology. It's so important for us to get the technology enablement of the analytical teams for a variety of reasons that I touched on the call. Mike, anything to add to that?

The bottom line is, as we get more technology enablement, we have surges in issuance, we'll be better able to handle that without having to to add people.

Steve, you want to start?

And the only thing I would add, and I've said this when this comes up, is that we're going to be deliberate and transparent in the rating agency in terms of how we leverage generative AI. We're in dialog with our regulators to make sure that they understand how we're going to do that.

So I think that's what you're seeing us do, right? And we've got to make -- the investment has got to come before the sales and ultimately, the revenue growth comes. And I feel like we have some ambitious medium term targets that mean that we're going to continue to accelerate revenue growth in the MA business. And so we're making the investments that we talked about today to be able to support GenAI product development and platforming, which we think are going to support that acceleration for the reasons we talked about. We continue to feel comfortable with those medium term targets, particularly the -- I mean you mentioned the margin. It's just that in this case, the investment is coming before the ARR growth.

Let me just -- I'll start with that and then I'll turn it over to Caroline. I think, in general, what you're seeing with D&A represents the -- we've been talking about the investments that we've been making in our SaaS products, you've seen some increased capital expenditures over the last few years, that's now starting to come through in the form of capitalized software. And I also talked about the higher growth rates that we are seeing with those SaaS products. And I think that's -- you want to be able to look at those two things together. Across all of MA, we're expecting our hosted and SaaS solutions to be growing in kind of the, call it, low double digits to parts of the MA portfolio like decision solutions, we expect to be growing more like high teens. And that's where that investment in software development is going. Caroline, do you want to talk a little bit about it from an accounting perspective?

I think if you look at it as a percent of revenues, I mean, obviously, we're bumping up the CapEx here a little bit. But I think as we get the increase in revenue growth and corresponding increase in capitalization it should stay relatively in line from a percent -- I think a percent of revenue basis.

Okay. One public service announcement for those of you in Europe. We're looking forward to seeing you at our London event and our offices on February 29th. I know that Steve and Shivani and some of our other senior leaders from Moody's Analytics will be there to provide a spotlight on our MA business like we did in New York in September of last year. So with that, I'm going to bring the call to a close. Thanks, everybody, for joining and we'll talk to you next quarter. Bye.