Robert Antokol
Playtika Holding Corp. (PLTK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, thanks for the question. So regarding the D2C platform, as we always said in the few other calls before, we are growing this. We have a target. One important thing, changing the focus of profitability, become -- in the last few quarters become harder. So we are now going to focus more on our D2C platform. We're going to bring more of the games. And for us, it's going to be one of our main targets. Playtika was the first company in the industry that started with the D2C. For us, it was always advantage. We see it right now as a big advantage. Gives us a lot of flexibility about things that we are doing. So again, this is our main -- one of our main focus. And by the way, regarding your question about M&As, again, having a D2C platform is giving us a big advantage of acquiring companies, acquiring games to make the profitability much better with the D2C platform. Regarding the target, as Craig said before, we are opportunistic. And we are looking at all around the market. We're speaking to all the players. We know everything that's happening from the small games starting two months ago to the big games that's running already 12 years. And as we did last year two good acquisitions, this is our target for this year, and we are very optimistic about it. Thank you.

No, it's not changing. As we said, it's not changed. But the market is changing. And it's not everything like it was before is today. I think 30%, this is where we are looking to be. This is our target. We believe we will get to this target. And after we'll achieve 30%, we can speak about the next target.

Sure.

So thanks for the question. So this is really early to say. It's only started a few weeks ago. We are still learning. We're still trying to understand exactly the benefit, how to work with this. It's not changing the strategy that we had in the past, and we have right now with the D2C platform. It's not connected to each other. But again, it's a very interesting move of Apple. We -- and I think in a few weeks, few months, we will be -- we will know exactly how it's going to benefit the company in which way. Thanks.

So thanks for the question. First, we are really happy to see even our competitors are launching good games because it's still saying that the market is good. So for me, everything that's happening, I'm always trying to see what is the benefit for us and what is the benefit for the market. So it's first saying that the market is healthy. Second, we never had a good history of developing new games. It's not a secret. It's not depend if the environment is good or bad. It's never been our DNA. Yes, we tried many things as a company -- as a big company, that's always trying, but it's never been our DNA. Our DNA was always M&As, and we did very well with M&As in the last 10 years. And I'm not saying that we're not going to have any kind of experience with new games, but it's not the main focus. And our main focus, again, is M&A. This is where we are looking, and this is -- I believe we're going to do one or two deals. I hope even better than the deals that we did last year that was a really good deal. That's it. Thanks.
