Robert Sanchez
Ryder System, Inc. (R) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. No, I'll let Steve give you a little more color on that. But no, I think most of the actions that we need to take have been taken. We have a little bit of headwind from some of our e-commerce and last mile business is probably not new news to most people in the industry has been a little softer. But other than that, the contractual businesses are still performing well.

Well, I would tell you the bottom line, yes. On the top line, we'd still be a little soft, primarily driven by the fact that we're still in a pretty soft freight environment, but we would expect that to start to pick up as the freight environment picks up. So the acquisition, though, is a real shot in the arm to that business because it really increases the scale and the density of that business and really provides us opportunities to really capitalize on some significant synergies that we're going to be working on this year to integrate, and we should really see the bulk of that in 2025.

Okay. Thanks you.

Good morning, Scott.

Yeah. I think a lot of that is the growth we're expecting in FMS, part of that from Cardinal as we bring in the acquisition. But growth in our lease business is really the biggest driver, along with maintenance costs, I think, overall, we've done a great job of bringing down maintenance costs. But as it relates to the first half, second half, I'm glad you asked that question, I've seen some questions about our Q1 guidance. First, I want to mention that our Q1 guidance is consistent with last year and pre-COVID seasonality decline from Q4 to Q1. And think about Q4 of '23 versus Q1 of '24, and you go back and you look at Q4 of '22 to Q1 of '23, generally in line and also in line with the pre-COVID, during the COVID years, you did have an anomaly because used vehicle pricing has been declining from these astronomical levels. So Q4 sometimes was that -- I'm sorry, Q1 was in a larger percentage than would normally be due to the -- as a result of the normal seasonality. So it's very consistent with where we would expect to be at this point in the cycle with rental and used vehicle sales now continuing to decline and really bottoming out. We are expecting some pickup in rental and used vehicle sales in the second half of the year. If you look at the top end of our range, if you look at the bottom end of our range, that assumes no decline -- I'm sorry, no pickup in -- or uptick in demand for rental and used trucks. So I think we've given you the full range of where we think things could end up I think based on where we are in the cycle and where the spot market is, we are getting long in this downturn. I think we're now almost two years, just definitely longer than what most of these cycles go. So I think it's reasonable to expect in the second half some type of a modest pickup. We're not even on the high end, expecting a significant figure, but just a modest pickup in rental and used vehicle demand. But I do want to clarify that the range does contemplate no pickup in the second half of rental and used vehicles at the bottom end.

Yeah. So if you recall that for tractors, we have a range. And that range is because during downturns, we do have lower residual values for that downturn. Obviously, we're in a downturn. So we're -- the residual values are really at the lower end of that mark. So yes, as you go into this year, we're expecting that decline to level off at some point and then start to come back. So where we sit right now, we feel comfortable that we've got the residuals where they need to be during this downturn and would not expect any additional changes there. Again, what we're expecting is to see a continued decline through the first half and then some type of modest pickup in the second half.

Thank you, Scott.

No, I'm not sure those numbers are right, Jeff. Total units that we're picking up from Cardinal track that's power and trailers is just under 9,000. So we're expecting lease fleet, which includes those units to be up about, I think, 12,000, 13,000 is what we're expecting. So yes, all those Cardinal vehicles are going to dedicated. So dedicated’s fleet will be up at least that amount, at least the 9,000 units from Cardinal.

By the way, it's not in the fourth quarter numbers yet. We did this acquisition in February. So is that part of it?

Tom?

So of you assumed 9,000 or so of those are Cardinal, you're up another 4,000 units -- It's in our target range of the 2,000 to 4,000.

Thanks, Jeff.

Yes. I guess I'd tell you, '24 is marginally accretive. So not a big number. It's -- we're going to spend some money in the integration and really integrating this transaction into Ryder. It really becomes more accretive in 2025. And I guess what I would -- guidance I would give you there is that if you look at all of dedicated, our target is to be, from an earnings standpoint, to be in the high single-digit range. In 2024, we're not going to be because of the integration cost. As you get into 2025, you should expect us to be, if not they're approaching that high single-digit range on a much higher revenue number now that we have Cardinal. So that would be reflective of beginning to really see those synergies come through.

Returns -- right after we integrate the synergies.

Yeah. I wouldn't read much into that early terminations and redeployments because that -- some of that was internal supply chain units that we had to move from an account from one account to another, and it shows up as an early termination, and it was just a movement within our supply chain business. dedicated business. But in terms of what we're seeing in the market, I think, look, we're still seeing a soft market in rental and used vehicle sales. There's no doubt that has continued from Q4 into Q1 as you just -- as we just look at the larger trend though and where we're seeing the spot market now seems to be bottoming out. Typically, there's a lag, let's call it, about six months between spot market bottoming out and used tractor market and maybe even rental coming back. So it's beginning to line up some. Still no one is, I think, ready to call the bottom yet. But based on historical cycles, we would expect things to be beginning to bottom out. But Tom, I'd like -- give us some additional color maybe on the used truck and rental market.

Yeah. And I would just add that Tom and his team have done a great job of delivering on our growth targets of 2,000 to 4,000 lease units a year at our target returns. And even in a more competitive market, certainly that we've been in here over the last year have been able to continue to deliver on that. So really proud of the work that they're doing.

Good morning.

Yeah. First, if you take IFS out, certainly, earnings for supply are still up in a meaningful way. If you think about it, Supply Chain's earnings this year as a percent of revenue, operating revenue were below our target. There was certainly some write-off we had to do, a write-down we had to do for a customer, plus there were some challenges in the year. We are -- we feel like this year, we are certainly heading into this year with a much better profile and portfolio and feel confident that, that core earnings for the -- earnings leverage for our supply chain business will get back to the target range, plus you have the benefit of the acquisition. So, Steve, is there anything else that you want to add there?

John?

Yeah. I would tell you, excluding the acquisition, Dedicated is relatively flat. I think given -- especially -- that's the way we planned it out, especially given we had a lot of effort to integrate this acquisition this year. And the market we expect to continue to be somewhat soft, at least through the middle of the year. We start signing stuff in the back half of the year, that will more benefit 2025. But I'll let Steve give you some additional color.

Thanks, Justin.

Okay. Well, thanks, everyone, for your interest. Listen, I certainly am proud of the performance in '23 and excited about our outlook for 2024. We've been talking about this transformation that we've done through the balanced growth strategy with higher highs and higher lows. I think you're seeing now three consecutive years of us being able to deliver on that. As we continue to grow the contractual earnings of the company, you're going to have the ups and downs of rental and used vehicle sales. But each year, that contractual earnings number is going to continue to -- we expect and we certainly are focused on continuing to grow that number and certainly within the ranges of our return on equity targets that we've outlined. So we feel very good about where we're at and the execution and excited about what we're going to deliver this year. So thank you all for your interest and look forward to seeing you soon.