Robert Buck
TopBuild Corp. (BLD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Phil, this is Robert. So I would say maybe compared to the COVID years, maybe not quite as tight as that because there was a lot of erratic, if you will, demand and supply back then. And this is really -- maintenance is driving a lot of this as well as the trajectory here of what we're seeing in single family starts. So as always, getting back through the years, we'll definitely do our job making sure we get more than our part of that material, and we obviously have constant discussions with our supplier partners around that.

As we think about what's happening with the single family starts and especially what's happened the past few months with that trajectory, I think Rob and I would both say, look, there's price upside here. And you even see some new price announcements even on the spray foam side of the business that's come out recently as well. So we do expect it to be tight given all that maintenance, given the single family trajectory, which we think there's upside even on the single family side and some good organic growth there. So I think it will stack up well for TopBuild, and to your point about our teams gaining new customers like we did last year around multi-family and commercial especially. If you think about mineral wool and some of the other products that you mentioned there, we think it's going to be a really good environment for TopBuild here in 2024.

Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

Yeah. Mike, this is Robert. I think, as Rob mentioned, on the high-end, we're at that 29%. And I think the hallmark of our company has been known for the execution piece, to Rob's point is, and how we continually performed in changing environments. And I think we're pretty well known for that and pretty well known for pushing the achievement level of the company and our teams.

Hey, Mike, this is Robert. I think you said it well there at the end. It's just taking longer. If you take the environment today with the DoJ, I mean, this is part of the normal process today, one, the process taking longer, one, asking for more information. And if you take the SPI business, there's kind of three distinct businesses there, the mechanical business, the spray foam business, and the metal building business. So they're trying to do their part to understand that and just given the environment, it's just a longer process.

We've responded very timely to what they've asked for. The process is progressing down the path here. So probably, best we can say is things are still under review, but you can kind of get a flavor given the environment.

Thank you.

Morning, Ken.

Yeah. Ken, this is Robert. So I'd say the builders are, especially if you think about the big builders, the production builders, definitely optimistic. Matter of fact, it's kind of a good week, the builder show's going on in Vegas, so we've had a lot of meetings with builders. I'd say they're definitely optimistic. And I think, given a little bit of the fluctuation of rates, they still are, given what's happening. I think you've got some of the smaller custom builders that are kind of waiting for that rates to drop some. I think that happens. You hear that optimism in their voice as well. So relative to bidding, good bidding activity to start off the spring selling season, which, as you know, starts the end of January. And I'd say very productive conversations with the big builders and what they're planning for this year and what it means from a TopBuild perspective.

Sure. So this is Robert again. So, yeah, the 25% is our current distribution business. And so I'll give you a few examples. If you think about the MRO side from the commercial/industrial those are kind of like annuities, if you will. There are certain regulations, there are certain environmental type of things that happen given the extreme conditions of some of those environments and insulation where that, there's constant repair and replacement of those parts, whether it be, insulation or even some of that kind of jacketing of materials that go on those very extreme conditions or extreme temperature type of environments and stuff, or you can also think about food and beverage, if you will. There can be some codes and regulations that require that to change. So it is a regular cycle. There is some kind of repair type of things that happen on the spur of the moment. And there's also some contracts that are kind of longer term that go for that repair and maintenance work that happens there.

And then if you just think about our standard distribution business, think about all the insulation related products that we supply, safety products that we supply, gloves, glasses, those types of things that are constantly reoccurring as well. So it's a real stabilizing environment for that 25% of our business as long as we keep up the great service, which we're known for, and we're able to service on the spur of the moment, which our teams do a great job in the field. So that's why we focus on that recurring piece of the business. We think it's important. We continue to be able to grow that and something that we always talk about.

Morning.

Yeah. Good morning. This is Robert. So, yeah, I think, obviously, we think about labor to your assumptions there. Obviously, folks will shift to towards a single family side. And as you think about even from a revenue perspective, the take per unit on a single family is more than a multi-family. So that's a positive for the business as well. So, yeah, I think you'll see the industry respond accordingly and that makes shift will be a positive, obviously.

Thank you.

Morning, Susan.

Yeah, good morning, Susan. It's Robert. So I think if you looked at some of the industry type of numbers, you would see we're above that as you look at our numbers for commercial/industrial. So, yeah, I think we continue to the field teams continue to do a nice job of growing that business, continue to gain traction and penetration with customers across both commercial/industrial.

I think that's been a great story of our special ops team is focused as well. We talked in the prepared remarks about growing the business top line and bottom line. So our teams have done some really nice work around that commercial/industrial and you see it in our performance. And so that's why we're very optimistic in our performance around commercial/industrial here in '24 and beyond '24.

Thank you.

Yeah. Stephen, so it has been something that we've had. We continue to invest in it. So if you think about our footprint, if you think about opportunities relative to anything from labor productivity, sales productivity, logistics, yields on material, those types of things, we just continue to see the ability. And to Rob's point about the pull-through of the same branch, I mean, that comes from all that work we're always doing.

I mean, you hear us talk about maybe we keep using these terms operational efficiency, driving operational improvement. Whenever we say that, that's the action that's happening behind the scenes to continue to drive that. And we see more opportunity. That's the one thing about sitting in our business is that we continue to see more opportunity there. And it doesn't matter what you're looking at in a business. As you know, you've got a bottom quartile. And so our mindset is you're always uplifting that bottom quartile, whether it be products, branches, customers, that type of thing. So it's just a constant cadence of how we run the business.

Yeah. So as you think about the business, you're right. There's three parts to it, the mechanical, spray foam, and the MBI. The DoJ has been trying to understand all three. I mean, they're good businesses in the SPI model. So all the information and what we're working with them on has been really across the business here of SPI. We really haven't had to consider that part about the splitting off and stuff. And you've known us from the big acquisitions in the past. We're good at driving synergies in the different models and stuff. So it wouldn't be the synergy piece here with the whole business. It's really not a concern of ours. So it's too early to speculate anything, but something we've really not considered given how the process is going forward.

Thanks.

Yeah, I think as we think about the core business of SPI, in the mechanical space, which is the core business of it, it still keeps us in the double-digits and the low teens, if you will, like the double-digits relative to that.

Thank you.

Thanks, Joe.

Yeah. I would say -- adding to that -- just say definitely a healthy pipeline. Acquisitions, you saw what we did in '23 and then we've already got three deals that are signed up for 2024 here early on. So a lot of good activities, still very fragmented, a lot of players out there.

Yes. So relative to the R&R, the rebuild, I mean, I definitely there's a lot of teardowns in the U.S., which constitutes a new start. But relative to the repair model, that's something our service partners business does a great job of getting after that. That's probably the smaller contractor that's doing that work. So that's really the targeted customer. And we do see upside in that, whether it be relative to what you're talking about, but then also just relative to some normal repair and maintenance that happens that we see with our smaller contractor customers on service partner side. So we do see that and that team does a great job of servicing those customers.

Yeah. Good morning, Rafe. It’s Robert. So a couple of things there. So yeah, you're right. New capacity coming on mid-year. Now it will take some time to get the lines up and going there. So although that starts up mid-year, you're probably thinking more about later in the third quarter, running capacity there. And then as we mentioned, there's a lot of maintenance happening in the industry this year. So it doesn't really have a capacity impact here in 2024.

And to your point about, from a TopBuild perspective, if you think about when that plant was announced, which I'm going to say was probably back in 2022, we stated there that we worked with the management team with Knauf about how they were planning capacity and planning that operation and stuff. So they're definitely a good partner with us and we're definitely partnering with them relative to bringing up their new plant there in McGregor, Texas.

We'll definitely do some advanced planning with them. That's probably the best way to say it.

Good morning.

Yeah. So as we mentioned, the process is pretty normal today as to what's happening with the DoJ. So it's too early to speculate anything there, as we mentioned on a previous question that came up. But at the same time, we operate in a very, very fragmented environment here across all three, really residential, commercial, and industrial. So we still see it as a healthy M&A environment, healthy pipeline out there for the future. And M&A is always our first choice, as Rob mentioned earlier, we think about buybacks and the best use of capital here. So we're not speculating on anything here. We're just going with the normal process with the DoJ right now and the process is progressing.

Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to talking with you in early May when we'll share our Q1 results. Thank you.
