Robert Thomson
News Corporation (NWSA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Alan, look, first of all, on AI you're right by instinct that this is an important moment in the history of news and knowledge, with commercial and social implications and profound impact on creativity and integrity. If fake news and deep fakes are a concern, the potential for sophisticated forgeries for counterfeit content is almost endless.

And separately, Generative AI has the potential to recycle itself in what you might call endless, perfidious permutations, and that's why the provenance of the archival base is so crucial and why refreshing daily weekly with incremental improvements is imperative. But -- so the potential is enormous, but garbage in garbage out, garbage all about.

We've invested billions of dollars in knowledge creation, actually tens of billions of dollars, and that content certainly has a value in this editorial epoch. And for almost two decades, we've genuinely led the digital debate about provenance, which is echoed in Washington and London, Brussels and Canberra and Tokyo and Rome. For us, what gives me confidence for our company and our community is that the leaders of the largest digital companies are clearly sincerely focused on the issue. They understand our collective responsibility, and we are actively individually engaged in fruitful discussions. So I can't be more specific at this moment. But we see a positive financial result through consensual negotiation, not through litigation. We would like to reward journalists, not lawyers.

As for Simon & Schuster, normally we don't speculate on speculation about M&A. But candidly, as you intimated, we wouldn't be prepared to go that high given that in our case, you could reasonably expect 18 months of scrupulous scrutiny by the antitrust authorities, with all related legal costs and the financial opportunity cost. We obviously have great respect for the company and its authors. But given the regulatory risk, we were quietly hoping that, frankly, Simon & Schuster would be reminded, and that we would get the company for a bargain, but it obviously didn't end up in the Barnes & Noble bargain bin.

Okay. We're certainly aiming high when it comes to Foxtel. And you can see from the success that we've had in streaming, total streaming subs rose 14% to 3.1 million, and our streaming revenues rose 26%, so that's also healthy growth ARPU. At the same time, broadcast churn fell sharply and was 11.1% in the quarter compared to 13.8% in the prior year, while broadcast ARPU rose 2%. So where else in the world are you actually witnessing a decline in the broadcast churn rate while experiencing a continuing surge in streaming, that really is the Foxtel success story.

Yes. Entcho, obviously, we can't comment specifically about an IPO. But what I can say with absolute certainty is that the success we've had with Foxtel has given us absolutely the option of optionality.

Craig, look, obviously, the 53rd week comparison exaggerates the decline, but the inflationary pressures are beginning to abate and some of the costs around royalty write-offs were relatively unique. So the team has Collins have obviously been taking a remedial action to improve our fortunes for this fiscal. We've implemented a price rise across various categories. And actually, the team is particularly confident about the impact of our current releases. And it's safe to say that our expectation, our firm expectation is that there will be significant margin improvement this year.

This very week we have 3 of the top 10 fiction bestsellers in the U.S. with the #1 seller, Ann Patchett's Tom Lake, which has already sold more than 100,000 copies across print and digital in the first week on sale. As well in that top 10, we have Demon Copperhead from Barbara Kingsolver, and The Collector by Daniel Silva. Now that success in the top 10 will be reflected in the bottom line.

Well, Lucy, safe to say we're delighted with the progress in the Dow Jones B2B business. You can see the impact on our margin more broadly at Dow Jones and longer term, you'll see it at News Corporation. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the EBITDA margin at Dow Jones was 13.8% [ph]. In the last quarter, it was 24.4%, and the overall margin at News Corp rose from 11.8% to 14% in a year where we were presented with real macro challenges.

Net margin increase is, of course, a measure of growing profitability, but it's also a measure of our robustness. So quarter-after-quarter, year-after-year, we've seen double-digit growth increases at Risk & Compliance. We now expect the same for OPIS and CMA and we are frankly, delighted with the speed of integration of both OPIS and CMA and ensuing quarters, you will see the benefits of that.

Brian, difficult to be too specific. What you're seeing in the circulation patterns at Dow Jones is partly a matter of phasing and a modest decline in print subscriptions. The emphasis is on the digital bundle with the combination of Mark Wash Barns and the Wall Street Journal. And sometimes in the shorter term, that means the average price of age is a little lower, but we are building loyalty and reducing churn in each of the products and in the long-term, increasing the price elasticity. I mean, the biggest problem for any [indiscernible] business, apart from acquisition itself is churn.

Obviously, the housing market slowdown in the U.S. is having a profound impact on all digital property companies. And that is being reflected to a certain extent at Realtor. But I have to say the company is core to News Corporation, it's complementary to other assets. And you're going to see that irrefutable fact in coming months with the impact of Damian Eales, who knows company intimately.

And what you will see with a lot of digital property companies is the cost of marketing. And we're remaking our marketing and have strong plans for leveraging our platforms. And look, we're talking about enormously influential digital platforms. It helps the Wall Street Journal, by the way, to have exposure in Florida via Realtor. And it helps Realtor to have the Florida audience in the New York Post, which is in the many, many millions.

As I mentioned, the post has about 145 million monthly uniques. We have about 80 million at Dow Jones. And in the U.S. alone, about $110 million at the Sun depending on the month. And so in building both listings and yield, we're going to be obsessively focused on leveraging that comparative advantage.

And I would just make one further observation about the Australian property market, as Susan alluded to earlier. I would say that we are seeing some particularly positive signs in the Australian housing market, which will surely benefit REA and us. There's no doubt that activity has already picked up this quarter, and that should be reflected in our results. It's a very transparent market. Anyone can track listings and the auction completion rate. So I would encourage investors to do the math in coming weeks. Sometimes we've gotten that, thanks to Lachlan Murdoch. REA is an integral part of News Corporation, and it has a market cap today of around A$21 billion.

Look, we are constantly reviewing our structure to ensure the optimal use of resources and the best outcomes for investors. That's why we were prepared to contemplate the sale of Realtor for rather generous price. And why we've done much underlying structural and regulatory work that gives us more flexibility in our collective decision making. So we are conscious -- acutely conscious of our responsibilities to investors, but also acutely aware of the value of our assets. And we've been building a portfolio for a reason.

You can see -- since our split, annual print-related revenues have decreased almost $3.2 billion. That is correct, $3.2 billion. And we've more than replace that number with digital growth and made the company far more profitable with far greater free cash flow. So we know that we do need to provide more transparency so that the value and the potential of our assets are better understood as you make clear. That's why we break out Dow Jones. And you can see the rapidly increasing revenues, particularly in the professional information business, which was the largest contributor to profitability this year. And that has already been noticed by investors.
