Robert Kyncl
Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

All right. Thanks for the question. So here's the way to think about it. We're a music company that's benefiting from the tailwinds of the music industry that we just described. The way we invest and grow is, first and foremost, into IP, and that has multiple different ways, multiple different forms. One, which is organic ANR, which we do day in day out, investing into new artists or existing audits, and there are new releases. Two, we acquire stakes in going concerns, the acquisition of 10-K is a really good example from a couple of months ago.

Three, we acquired catalogs, whether it's on the publishing side, on recorded side, David Boe catalog from a couple of years ago is a good example of that. And then we look at all of these activities all around the world. I just described in the earnings call, our success in many different high-growth markets. So we're replicating all of these activities in different geographies. So it's like a four-pronged approach. Then we layer on top of that investments into technology which becomes a force multiplier on everything I just mentioned. That is the main goal.

And what we do with the technology investments are 100% self-funded. That's what we committed to earlier last year, and that's what we are committing to going forward as well. And when we do this, we're creating a flywheel that is allowing us to continue our investments into growth, continue our overall growth, and continue to expand our margins at the same time. That's the strategy for our investment framework. As it relates to ADA and the free up resources, the best way to think about it is -- we have an amazing team of executives that have driven the ADA business for quite a few years.

We are focusing on growing both our top line and our bottom line with a very strong global orientation, just again, in line with what I just mentioned earlier and even a minute ago. And we're focused on working with more and more labels and more and more artists all around the world and scaling that business. And technology is a really big part of that because it helps us do that more efficiently and faster and with less friction.

And a great example of that is the focus of Ariel's team who runs our technology group to overhaul our supply chain and all of our partner-facing tools that, from a technology standpoint, enables this for the business team to drive acceleration in that business. So all in, the strategy to grow ADA is there as it was before because the independent space is growing, and we're leaning into that space. And two, we're just doing it differently. We're doing it in a way that is driving both top line and bottom line at the same time.

Sure. Thank you. So, first, on sort of overall streaming growth, obviously, we're pleased with the industry returning to a high. I mean, to a very healthy double-digit growth. The way I think about it is that I'm not really looking at our competitors. I'm not looking at the world around us. I'm focusing on our own continual and sustained improvements. I want our company to just keep on improving on a steady basis and most importantly, on a sustained basis. It's very, very important. The -- obviously, investments into ANR and all of that, that I just mentioned a few minutes ago goes into that. But at the same time, we're investing in technology. And the best way to think about that is there's a lot of foundational work that helps us actually deliver on that sustained growth promise from a technological standpoint.

I just mentioned overhauling our supply chain infrastructure. While that may sound very unsexy, the -- what benefits the business is very sexy because it's removing lots of friction and increasing speed in the way we can process more music, more partners, more artists through our supply chain. And so whether it's something that we wholly own or whether it's a partner of ADA with greatly externalized tools and improved tools, all of that contribute towards the growth of the Company while delivering on our margin expansion. So that's just one example on the technology front.

Sounds good. Bryan, why don't you?

Let me take the second part of the question on the beta that was announced this morning with YouTube, the AI beta. So first, I'd like to actually point out to the significance of this, which is imagine in early 2000s, if the file sharing companies came to the music industry and said, would you like to experiment with this new tool that we built and see how it impacts the industry and how we can work together. It would have been incredible. Obviously, that didn't happen. So this is the first time that a large platform at a massive scale, that has new tools at his disposal is proactively reaching out to its partners to test and learn.

And I just want to underscore the significance of this kind of engagement and the sort of the orderly fashion in which this is happening. And I really applaud YouTube and DeepMind all of Google and our counterparts in the industry for participating in this because this is the right way to engage this. Whenever I say responsible engagement with our partners, this is precisely what I mean. And so we're excited about it. We're excited to learn from it. And together, we then develop a great blueprint for how things should work, but develop it based on learnings. More broadly, the way I think about our engagement on AI and what we practice is along the following lines.

We have three constituents. One, which is degenerative AI engines, right? So whether it's DeepMind, Anthropic, Lambda, et cetera. And there, that's -- obviously, that's where it begins. And there, our efforts in the music industry are focused on making sure that they're licensing content for training, they're keeping records of inputs so that provenance can be tracked and then there's water marketing of the content. The second group is the platforms where most of the content, irrespective of where it will be created and by which tools will end up because people who are creating will want views or streams or lots of user engagement.

And with so YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, et cetera, obviously those are the platforms Spotify. We're focused on three things, which is control, attribution and monetization. And all of those wrapped in choice for artists, artist and song writers making sure that they have a choice. And we have a blueprint from all of our work on user-generated content over the past 15 years or so, which created a multibillion-dollar industry on an annual basis for the music industry. So, we just need to now write the fine print for the AIH together with them.

And then the third set of constituents is government. And over there, we are both through our trade organizations as well as ourselves working hard to make sure that regulation around AI respects the creative industries, music industry, specifically from our standpoint that licensing for training is required and also that name image likeness and voice is afforded the same protection as copyright. And I, myself, I personally have spent time over the last month with leading politicians on these issues and regulators in London, Brussels, Tokyo and a few others in D.C. and a few other cities around the world. So, lots of effort underway, but I'm really excited and positive about the YouTube beta.

Sure. Thank you. So, we obviously don't talk about the details of our DSP agreements. But what I can say on the most recent one, with these, we're really excited to work with them on what was the second prong of our driving the value of music strategy, right? The first prong is price optimization and second one is new royalty models, and that's where this one is falling in. And we again, really like it when we're engaging with our partners. And again, I'm stressing that it's not just one company that you have multiple companies in the industry doing so. That's really, really important because, again, from my experience on the DSP side, if you just have one engaging with you.

Yes, it's helpful but not that helpful because you need to scale things appropriately across the ecosystem and the industry, so I'm always focused on the fact that it shouldn't be just us or it shouldn't be just the other guys, it should be multiple large companies, independent as many of us working together, trying to develop better models and drive the value of music. So, we're committed to doing that on multiple fronts. And we want to make sure that the better value for music is reflected. That value is reflected better. And I forgot the second part of the question catalog acquisitions.

Yes. I look at catalog as our natural resource in general. It's incredible. The catalog that Warner Music Group has is priceless. It's a gift that keeps on giving. And I use the example of my 20-year-old daughter, who two years ago, discovered Fleetwood Mac and became their biggest fan. That says everything, right? And that is what drives a big, big driver of the value of our company and then all of our efforts to keep on creating new catalogs on new releases and finding new stars that we mentioned. Zach Bryan is an amazing example of that.

Obviously, there's been a lot of catalog sales over the last few years that drove up valuations. I think we're starting to see all kinds of fluctuations in that space. And we are very active, and we're watching things in all geographies, and it's a really big part of our focus to make sure that we're opportunistic and strategic at the same time about deploying our capital at the right price where we, through our predictions see a strong and growing performance of the underlying entities.

Yes. So generally, we do not provide updates on timing of our deals. So, I would say speculating on those is probably not the best practice. And there's really nothing to announce. And when, we have something, we will. But there's nothing of note to speak of.

Sure. So when you -- I think it's for price optimization, I think it's really important to sort of broaden the scope of thinking. And I don't mean -- I mean, it's both for our partners as well as for ourselves, the suppliers. And let me give you an example. Aside from, obviously, everything that I said before, which is catch up to inflation, get ahead of inflation, compare yourself to other industries, understand price elasticity, all of those things. So those are sort of basics. And so I'm not going to go back into that.

But there are other things to look at for instance the relationship and the ratio of family plan pricing relative to individual plan pricing. Is it at the right place? So even as price increases are happening, is the ratio of these two correct? You can go further widen the aperture further by looking at China. There are no family plans in China. They are only individual accounts. Another example from China is that while you have a subscription on Tencent, certain artists or bands are selling their LPs on top of the subscription.

And so, it is so useful to have a really broad aperture on all of these things and not just think myopically through how things happen and only look at the dollars within that. And I'll just give you only two examples. There are others. And there's just so many different ways to think through this. So, I think what's required for that is deep collaboration with our partners and making sure that the changes are win-win for both sides and that we drive the ecosystem up and to the right together at faster rate.

Sure. I think earlier during my opening monologue, I said there's been great progress but it's just a start. And it really is just that. And I feel like we're in the first inning of it. And I'm not saying this because I'm in an earnings call with investors. Actually 100% mean this when I look at the full scope of all the work that needs to be done and the opportunity that is ahead of us. With some partners, we're much further along with others less so. But what you see is that generally, when you make progress with one, others tend to follow in different ways within 12 months. So, we are taking a prioritized approach to this. I think the agreement is that the TAM of the market is probably greater than what we have been thinking about in terms of revenue.

And I think the agreement is that other industries have optimized their pricing better than we have. That doesn't mean that we've done anything wrong because we also had to get huge amounts of people into the premium experience and revenue. I think the -- what we have to figure out is how they get wins through this process in a way that it drives wins for us. And that's where there are different ways. And this goes to the aperture broadening a little bit that we have to think through different ways, not just the ways that we've been used to thinking about.

And a lot of this work takes -- it takes a while. These things don't happen overnight. But it's important that it begins and then it's done in a deeply analytical fashion because that is what the DSPs will do and that it's done in a collaborative fashion because they need to bring the industry on not just one or two partners. So that's where we're focused on. I just want to close with one last thing to add, which is this weekend, I was just listening to some music on Spotify and then I looked at their charts just on my phone.

And right there, on my screen, I saw number two, this was in the U.S.; number two, Lovin On Me by Jack Harlow; our artist number three, I Remember Everything by Zach Bryan, our artist; and number four, My Love Mine All Mine by Mitski, who's with us on Publishing. And this was -- I took a screenshot of that, and this is my favorite screen chart of this year. Three of four in Spotify in the U.S. with us, and it's just a great testament to our teams who in the beginning of the year, when I was in my first earnings call, I was sick, my voice was really bad, and we didn't have the best results, and we said we know what we're doing.

We will deliver through the year, and we have, and the team has done it, and it's just amazing to be able to see the deliveries. So I just want to thank the entire company for hustling and doing that, and we commit to do that forward again. And I want to be the last one to say, again, thank you, Eric, for everything that you've done for the Company. And we may call on you here and there to take you out of your boredom, but thank you. It's been amazing to have you, and thank you for all your contribution.