Robert Price
PriceSmart, Inc. (PSMT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

This is Robert. We can't comment on anything like M&A. I mean, that's just not a new thing we're -- as far as succession planning, nothing specific, but you have to remember that really, this is a team. It's not one person. And we have a very strong team, and I feel very comfortable with the management team. So I don't think there's anything to comment on with the succession today. I don't know what your last question was.

I think we have to be comfortable that we could enter. It would probably require going to another country or because, obviously, within the countries we're in now in terms of store openings, there's opportunity, but it's not huge. So I think as far as being more aggressive about growth in that area, we would have to consider another country probably.

About what?

Not sure. I'm having trouble understanding what you're saying.

What is your question?

Well, we will consider all alternatives. It's not like we're not considering this, but we look at everything.

Well, the idea of this business is to keep giving people better value all the time. So the idea of increasing prices isn't part of our DNA. I think the -- what we're trying to do is to build a long-term business where our members are going to be confident that when they walk in the building, they're getting the best price we...

As we understand now, the situation in Guatemala has calmed down. I'm not sure today what's going on in Panama. It's had some effect. I don't think it's significant in terms of what the overall October numbers will be. I think we probably lost some sales, but you won't notice it as far as our reporting.

No, at this point, we haven't seen any decline. I think the $5 is fairly nominal. I think the issue is -- more important is, how the members perceive the value they're getting for that $5 increase in the overall membership fee. And it's up to us to continue to improve that value, I think we have the capacity to far outweigh the $5 membership increase with better values to our members.

I don't think the $5 is going to be what makes them decide to be a member or not. I think it's going to be -- are they feeling that by being a member at all, it really is something that bothers them. And we really believe that based on shopping patterns that people appreciate and value that membership.

I would just add one thing about -- and I should have said it in my opening remarks. From what I can tell about this business in the region we operate, we are probably -- and I would feel very comfortable saying this that we are the most respected and trusted brand of any business operating in this region. And I think that's not appreciated enough by our investors. Maybe we don't tell the story very well. But not only are we respected and trusted, but that gives us a foundation to continue to build additional services and opportunities for our members that we think will take advantage of in the future.

And the idea of growth, I hear the idea of going into other countries and growing, but you have to have healthy growth. You can't just have growth because it looks good that you have more clubs, we will have more clubs. But what's really important is leveraging on what we already have. And we have almost two million accounts and three million cardholders who represent the very best in terms of member clientele in this region. And I think we have not taken full advantage of what we have.

