Roger Perreault
UGI Corporation (UGI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Good morning, Gab. And thanks for your question. Yes, as we announced at the last -- the last earnings call, the strategic review is something that's still in its early days. So we have launched it. And at this time, we really don't have an update that we can provide on weather timing or the outcome.

Just as a reminder, right, the strategic review is -- was launched with a view on the LPG businesses with a focus on AmeriGas. In parallel to that strategic review, we also announced that our operational efficiency objectives here, which is, to take $70 million to $100 million of expense out of the business. So that's something that we are executing. So what you see in our guidance right now is the impact of -- about the 30% of that, that we will get in addition to a continued focus on operating AmeriGas and continuing to improve customer delivery metrics, which are trending quite nicely.

And once we have more information on the strategic review, we'll be pleased to come back to you and to the market with some updates.

Thank you, Gabe.

Good Morning, Julien.

Hi, Cameron.

Yes, let me kick that off. Yes, a couple of things to keep in mind. When we went into 2023, Cameron, we saw a very severe driver shortage. And we've talked extensively about that throughout the year. That did lead to customer losses and what we're seeing going into 2024 is kind of the tail end of that, right? We're seeing a continuation of volume that really is lost from the driver shortage issue we had at 2023. So it's a lingering effect.

When we look at the elevator -- the OpEx we put into the business, that OpEx was very focused on ensuring we have the right number of drivers going into fiscal 2024, service tax, frontline employees, ensure that we are delivering the promise we make to customers.

What we are seeing and we continue to see an improvement in this throughout the summer and leading into the winter is good progress on on-time deliveries, good progress on improving zero fills or minimizing zero fills, good progress on inefficient fills and that's thanks to the fact that we now feel very good about the staffing levels we have going into 2024.

Now that's -- that did put pressure on OpEx and that is why we also are very focused on the $70 million to $100 million of expense takeout, because what we've done is, we've put OpEx in more customer-facing areas. And of course, we're very focused on taking and controlling costs that do not impact the customer experience.

So what we're seeing going into 2024 is some lingering effects from that. As Sean mentioned, we are -- we are confident that we're going to see some improvement in that, but it is going into the year with still a negative trend, but smaller than what we saw in 2022 to 2023.

Yes. So a couple of things, and I'll encourage Sean and Bob to add commentary [indiscernible]. So, the strategic review is really focused on LPG businesses. So we were very deliberate in that focus, with a focus on AmeriGas. What we see is a focus on AmeriGas as the area that would have the biggest impact on shareholder value. Right. The whole process of us launching strategic review was really to commit to unlocking and maximizing shareholder value.

And where we see that potential is with a focus on AmeriGas. Now, that being said, we remain very open-minded on the strategic review process and really, again, with an eye on what's going to unlock shareholder value the most. So we're not eliminating ideas from the process, but we are wanting to ensure that we're very clear that the strategic review is LPG businesses with a focus on AmeriGas.

Which then leads to your second part of your question, which is Midstream. And -- in the Midstream part, I mean, Midstream has been and is just a phenomenal business. Right. This is a business that continues to show very nice progress on vertical ratios, on ability to control costs, and a very effective shift to more fee based contracts, right? More fee based structures. So a business model that is very robust, with a very good relationship with LDCs, including our regulated utility, and with some good opportunities for continued growth and investments, as we continue to provide that essential service in Pennsylvania to move molecules from various sites to LDCs, et cetera.

So we see Midstream as a very core business. It's a business we are excellent at, like we are at operating a regulated utility. So that's going to continue to be a focus. And as you can see in our thesis that we talk about in our fiscal 2024, we continue to allocate more and more capital to that natural gas business.

Thank you, Cameron.

Hey, Good morning, Sarah.

Correct, correct. As I mentioned, we got out of the quarter -- we got out of the year with no with, again, not having to utilize that equity cure, which is why that now the revolvers freed up, there's no restrictions on it. And our goals going forward are not to utilize additional equity cure, that's the plan.

Thank you, Sarah.

Yes, I'll kick it off and I'll ask Bob to add some color as well. Yes, so as we've been talking about, we continue to prioritize capital in our natural gas businesses. And we're wanting to tighten it. In this higher inflation environment right now, we just see it as very prudent to keep our philosophy, keep investing a significant amount of capital in regulated utility and in our natural gas businesses. However, just being prudent and tightening a little bit. And that's what you're seeing. You're seeing us just being very modest on how we're tightening. We are ahead of schedule with our commitments to PUC, and that's our full intention, is to continue to be ahead of schedule with our pipeline and betterment process.

We have the benefit of having been ahead of schedule in prior years, and that gives us this opportunity to -- in this high inflation environment to just be cautious and say hey let's right-size this for now, but keep to our game plan of being ahead of schedule for our programs. Bob, anything to add?

Thank you, Gabe.

Good morning, Michael.

I can start, Michael. I mean, the slide that we have in there -- you highlighted all the good news and that is true. We do see some growth. We're blessed to have a diversified portfolio, so the utility is growing, services is growing. We see international growing slightly. But we do see -- it is a rebound year, recovery year for AmeriGas, so we do see volumes continuing to decline in AmeriGas. We do see some impact on our margins at AmeriGas, even on a 2023 to 2024 basis. So bottom line, we're seeing growth in three divisions and that's being predominantly offset as we continue to reset and get AmeriGas back on track.

Thank you, Mike.

Okay. Thank you Liz and thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate your continued interest in UGI. I wish you all a great weekend and Thanksgiving.
