Roger Jenkins
Murphy Oil Corporation. (MUR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Arun.

First on the question, thanks for that. We do have a plan this year. We consider to be fairly consistent with latest prices and plans. We're going to be like $1 billion CapEx Company in those years. And if you look at our CapEx from 2023, 2024, it's very similar, and I suspect it remains so. We have an ample list of Gulf of Mexico, 2P projects we call them the last -- we have over 2 or 3 years of rig work there if we want it. We'll be keeping our Eagle Ford Shale in that same level and reaching up to the field our plant in the Montney.

The LDV project is not super expensive for Murphy, probably around $300 million total and it will be spread over 3 or 4 years very nicely. There will be no big slugs of CapEx there. And I would consider the CapEx in Vietnam to go up in 2025 and 2026, almost doubling or slightly more and pull back in some of our non-op projects at St. Malo gets going. Terra Nova finally finishes their work. And that we get higher production in Montney to go forward.

This plan is a very robust plan and what's more robust about it in the past as we have found more offshore projects to do with Vietnam. We have a much more -- much bigger offshore business. If you compare plan to plan, our offshore production is some 10,000 barrels a day higher than 2027. Our total production in 2028 is much higher than it was in the final plan and our oil production is 5,000 or 6,000 barrels a day in 2028 compared to last year's plan. So this is a really good plan. We're going to accumulate between $5 billion and $6 billion of free cash flow from 2024 to 2028 million with the assets we own today, and we'll be able to return massive amounts to our shareholders through buybacks and have very large dividend levels because it will be purchasing so much stock. And we're extremely well positioned with this plan. It's very much a consistent plan with inflation and things happening and resurging a plan like you do every year. And it's in a really good shape, Arun.

I'm so super pleased with that execution. I'm going to let Eric cover it for you.

Thank you Arun. Appreciate your call.

Thanks, Neal. They're spending across all of it, and I'll let Eric give you more detail.

Yes. Further on that, Neal, we have our Board meeting and we project our projects these are well in excess of 100% rate of return. And later on in the slide deck, we talk about workovers, which are unfortunate some of these wells had some mechanical problems after fix, the payout on these wells are 3, 4 months. So everything we do offshore 150%, 170%, 200% rate of return. So near infrastructure and unlike onshore, they're spending on things without necessarily drilling. We have to buy long-lead equipment items, production equipment, drilling equipment casing. They're spending on things associated with all these developments. This is some of the best investment you can ever make in the oilfield today.

Good morning, Leo.

Thanks, Leo. That's you said it right. It's bad luck. It's nothing to do with anything. These are not related. There's a safety valve instrument in Dalmatian. This has been an occurrence that happened in the Gulf to various operators through the years. You test the safety valve from a regulatory basis and the valve won't open back up for different kinds of reasons. Then we had to go do some studies about the metallurgy of the type of equipment we need, there's very little equipment on the ground by these large service equipment companies today. You have to procure things, procure rig. You can get rigs in the Gulf to do work. We've been able to do it. It's not that tight. We're able to do it.

And then the well in Neidermeyer is a complex deep pressured well that had a communication. It looks like between the tubing to the casing. We bought this well. We didn't complete this well. It wouldn't have been the way we would have designed the well, we can say that. And we need to go fix the well, and we have a rig there today to fix it. These things are unrelated. And what's really happening to us here in this first quarter is some work that needs to be done that we had to procure and get the equipment to do with large downtime, for example, they're lifting up the famous subsea water injection equipment at St. Malo, which is a big deal for one of the greatest fields in the Gulf on the highest margin. Fields in the Gulf that has to be shut in and picked up. Delta House has some equipment that's being installed by another operator.

So we have a lot of planned downtime that came in on top of some one-off workover leading to a low first quarter and we haven't put a well online in onshore in quite a while. That's the way we run our business to have this incredible low, free cash flow yield, incredible leading net debt to EBITDA, no bonds to be refinanced until 2027, the only energy company in that situation. So all that's set up to provide all that safety for our shareholders, and we're returning money to shareholders.

So to wrap all this up, some poor luck, things happened with some downtime. As to M&A, thanks for asking that question. We are a company that prides ourselves in very successful M&A, over $8 billion of M&A in the decade here. We have an incredible team, a senior team, and we have a proprietary process to look at things on a certain basis.

The recent large deal is something that didn't fit the criteria of us. We've known about the deal for a long time. And I think if you back up to 30,000 feet, what's the difference is the debt-to-EBITDA level of the outcome of that deal versus us striving to be one times debt-to-EBITDA at $45 oil, not 1.6 net EBITDA at $75 oil. So we're in a different total world. We have all the assets we need and we're striving to protect our shareholders through large returns and cycle pricing and with this incredible balance sheet.

So that's kind of how we think it. So for us to do M&A, it's a certain criteria of the age of the assets and the returns that we like that fit in with our framework, and we have -- that's how we judge that. And that's the answer on that. There are plenty of opportunities. We look at them all the time, and we're very proud of our screening and our process that we have that's led to a great success on M&A front here. One of our best things that we do actually. So thank you, Leo, for supporting us and calling in today.

We're not afraid, Paul, to buy stock on our revolver if we get separated from the group or the pack here because our company is a very solid company with incredible cash returns. Let me take a stab at the LRP -- long-range plans, what we call it. Thanks for that question, fair question. On the CapEx side, yes, it's higher. During this period, last year, we didn't have enough for exploration and to improve our exploration business, we need to build a portfolio that allows us a mixture of lower risk and higher risk throughout the year and also lower risk and high risk as to cost. These big 33,000 foot wells in the Gulf are very expensive. In other parts of the world, they're much less expensive. And on the risk side. We have a much lower risk exploration portfolio this year.

So we've added over $40 million a year during this 3-year period for exploration. On the cash flow side, we've lowered our gas prices in the plan that's footnoted and we're also executing a $300 million project in Vietnam. And it's just a relook at the cost. And if you look at production, let's just be honest, Terra Nova is supposed to be up and running last March, it's not. And then you have to start off now and ramp that up. St. Malo incredible field just drilled an incredible production well there. The oil in place at St. Malo continues to increase, probably one of the top assets in the world, but the project is very late. So the CapEx has been spent. The production has been delayed. They're just now putting on the water injection equipment.

So when you add all this up, you have a similar production result, but very, very same on oil. Very similar on the oil side to last year and more spending. But our 2027, 2028, 2029 is more robust and better than it was and leading to still a large amount of free cash flow approaching our yesterday market cap, in fact. And so there, we have it on that, Paul. But just every year, the plan gets better, things happen, things change in phasing. We deal with a lot of non-op big projects like Terra Nova and St. Malo and Lucius with Occidental. And nothing's changed. We added up, put it back together. But at the end of the day, production is an outcome, and we're focusing on free cash flow and returning to shareholders and we have an outstanding ability to have free cash flow very similar to last year's plan. So we focus on that, not the little ins and outs on small variances in production. That's an outcome for us, not an input. So my treasurer tell me that yesterday, great line. So that's what we're doing on that, Paul.

Appreciate all the years. Thank you.

Good morning, Charles.

It will be later this year and throughout the year. But I'll let Tom walk you through that, Charles a little bit here.

I think they're a little bigger than that. I believe they're in the 40s range. A story there. It's a long story. We just drilled this well so. It's a disappointing well that we disclosed earlier. But our team is doing a great job. We have a great team. We have a new enhanced team here, and people want to trade and be in our business. So when we drilled Oso for people to come into that well, Occidental, a close relationship with them, OXY. We were able to get into two of their prospects for them joining ours. We also have a very nice acreage position near Delta House. We recently did a large land trade where people want to come into our acreage, and we build into a portfolio of other wells.

So we're using our prospects to gain entry into other prospects, meaning people believe our prospects are good. As a matter of fact, we're doing extremely well in trading in and out and building a really nice portfolio, Chris Olson, our exploration leader, and our land team is doing a great job pulling all that together for us.

These are -- again, I spoke to Paul Cheng a few minutes ago about the risk of the program on occasion, you end up with a higher risk program year-to-year, I consider this year lower risk. These are amplitude type plays near one of Oxy's very successful fields can be tied back very closely to where they work. These would be near-field tieback, totally different from Oso, totally different from other things that we drilled in the past.

So this year, we have some lower risk, lower cost not its deep and tough wells, if you will, and some really nice wells in Vietnam that we've been on the sidelines in Vietnam for a long time until we made plans with our field development plan with that host government, now the host government is very interested and us moving forward, that's going extremely well.

So they're smaller wells, they're lower risk. With a great partner, they come from acreage situations that we put together. And in Vietnam, we're back in an area that's been on hold for us. So that's kind of a fast wrap-up of what we got going on there, Charles.

Thank you, appreciate it.

Good morning, Tim. How’re doing?

We focus on our offshore business typically first because these are infrastructures that need to be used. And on a pure return basis, the returns are better. But on a risk basis, it's different and the outcomes. It's not quite as volatile as you say, we've had three really strong years of work in the Gulf made enormous billions and billions of free cash flow in our Gulf business. So we just want to hold it in here and use it later if our Gulf business, our offshore business declines. It's a big advantage. We're showing a plan to our Board to produce past 2050 with assets that we own without any M&A or any exploration success. So we're a little different animal there. And we're trying to get our balance sheet in great shape. But I'll let Eric give you a little better color than that on this choice of capital allocation.

We have the Eagle Ford for long-term, and we have it when we need it. We can change capital allocation on the dime here in 30 minutes. We can change cap allocation. So we're proud to have it. I think it's going to become more and more valuable. And I think all of our onshore assets will become more and more valuable with the scarcity of the peers in that group that only do that business decline over the next decade. There's very valuable assets in both Canada and the Eagle Ford.

Thank you. Appreciate it.

Good morning, Roger. Good to hear from you.

Thanks for that question, Roger. I appreciate that. The way we think about it is you have to have some level of exploration spending if you're an E&P company or if not, you're just a peak company. And so we have raised that because we need to build a better portfolio for the long-term value of the company.

When I think of sustainability, we have all the attributes of all the ESG sustainability. We ranked top in ISS, ranked number 1 by every ranker, lowest emissions, incredible focus and all that. But to me, sustainability is having that in an asset base that last for decades. As I mentioned on a prior call, our Board has seen a production forecast past 2050 with the assets that we own today. So we like to augment those assets with more oil-weighted exploration and not become a totally gas company because we have tees and tees of gas in the Montney. So we feel that at a 10% level of CapEx, 8% to 10% level of CapEx, we can build a long-term lower risk exploration portfolio that doesn't have -- that evens out the risk profile for the year, which we just talked about here with the previous caller. So we have that. Our buyback of stock is very, very good allocation of capital as well. And we disclosed the framework that we're quite serious about. And if you look at the actual data, it would within 1% or 2% of that execution on our first year.

So we measure all that through and focus on free cash flow. So what we want to build and what we have between now and 2028 is -- I'm looking at all the free cash flow every year from 2024 to 2029. We make $1 billion a year or more every year of free cash flow. So we're doing that with the assets we own then we can augment that with exploration last longer and longer and longer at that same oil weighting and still have all of our onshore assets there to back us up to last for decades and decades. We're not going out of business at Murphy. We're sustaining our company through the capital allocation process that we have. And along the way, we're going to be able to buy a lot of stock.

One of the key advantages of Murphy because we never issued equity since we went public in the 50s, we only have 154 million shares. So we can buy 5% or 6% of the company every year without any problem at all. So just a different animal. I'll show all this business today about our incredible balance sheet and our shareholders today have $1.20 a share dividend, the same as 2016 with way less net debt. So we're protected not to lower our dividend anymore. That's what we wanted to do, and we want to have the balance sheet in another cycle to pounce on M&A. And that's how we look at it.

From an M&A perspective in the Gulf, we did buy a very nice situation. It's getting better, we believe, on subsurface. We occasionally look at prospects near our infrastructure, we could then flow those barrels to us. We don't have that deal done. We'll need to compete, but we're the top operator in the Gulf, high-uptime in the Gulf, highest record in the Gulf. People want to flow to us. And that's an opportunity for us to make an incredible high rate of return. And people want us in their project, even though we're not opt to help along the way with our expertise.

So things come to us. We get to look at every deal and that we're extremely well positioned, Roger, to be honest with you.

Thank you, appreciate. See you soon.

Neil, you’re Goldman Sachs. Can you ask anything you want as long as you want.

I think I'm going to let Tom answer that. The priority to me is we meet with our Board as we have a red light, green light, yellow on everything that Moody's requires. We focus on are we meeting investment-grade criteria. That's our first step. I'm focused on free cash flow every day, all day, and I'll let Tom talk to you about Moody's here. He's expert on that.

Thank you, Neil. Thanks for hanging in to the end, and we'll be seeing you soon. Appreciate it.

Okay. That's the end of our call today. We had a lot of robust calls for many of our long-term analysts. We appreciate that. We're first out in E&P today. We're glad to have it behind us, and we wish all of our peers as well as they go through it going forward. We're very well positioned, very safe balance sheet, ever-increasing dividend and focus on our shareholders. I'm very proud of the company, very proud of my team, very proud of what we have going on here.

I appreciate everyone's focus this morning. It's been a long call. Thanks so much. See you soon. Goodbye.