Ron Kramer
Griffon Corporation (GFF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

But 2024, we're off to an excellent start, and we see the 30% being well within our capabilities. and sustainability. So the business has proven itself to be resilient, the positioning that has happened over a period of years of expanding the residential business, the development of our commercial business. We have an excellent team doing the best in this industry, and we continue to be the leader, and we expect to both grow the business, take market share and maintain our margins for '24.

So let's start with this is 15 years in the making. So go back to 2008 in the global financial crisis. In 2009, we consolidated the plants, and we invested in the business. And we took what was a leading business and made it better. Invested in technology at both the plant level, created software for our dealers to be able to showcase our products for consumers to make it easier to order.

We've expanded our relationship over the years with Home Depot and Menards, and we bought CornellCookson five years ago and expanded our commercial business. So the margin improvement story is a function of getting the strategy right, getting the operating footprint of this business, modernizing and building the brand at the consumer level, and now Clopay represents the leading brand in residential garage doors.

We went and expanded our business by buying CornellCookson. So between Clopay, CornellCookson and the brands that we have, Clopay and Ideal, we have become the leader in both residential and in commercial. The growth in both businesses, which we said five years ago, we saw the pivot on the commercial business as being both a way for us to grow and diversify.

And we always understood that it was going to be - something that was going to be a margin-enhancing. We went through COVID, we positioned the company to be not just able to get through, but to continue to gain market share. So the margin improvement story has been happening over a very long period of time. It's now at a level that we believe we're in an elite class of manufacturers. We don't necessarily get value that way in the public market, and we've been taking advantage of it.

We think this is a very valuable business. We think its growth is still in front of it on the commercial side. The residential side continues to be strong for us. Our dealer network, our big box positioning makes us the leader in the space. And we expect to gain market share and maintain our margins going forward.

We continue to believe our stock is a compelling value and we'll take advantage of it.

Good morning, Justin. We are well. How're you?

Yes.

It's been an excellent year, and we're very excited about our future. Thank you.