Ron Kruszewski
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Devin.

Well, I think half of our approximately are in smart rate and that is highly correlated to effective Fed funds. I think the question on deposit betas, on the way down are going to be driven by competitive factors, just as they were sort of on the way up. Jim, I don't know if you want to...

It was modest both ways actually.

Yes. I think the answer to your question would be what you finished that with, which is we would like to provide an opportunity and a compelling platform for independents to utilize simply our platform, our technology and our capabilities. There is no particular focus on growing the independent channel relative to the employee channel. There just hasn't been. We will deal with that as supply and demand sort of dictates. We have the platform and it's a good alternative.

What you'll see though is our focus has been historically and this is nothing against the independent channel. I just want to say our focus over the years has been on the employee channel. And that's simply because we are a diversified firm with a lot of capabilities that the employee model, it's more – it's been tailored over the last 25 years to the employee model. So I can see both growing. I'm frankly indifferent, the way we look at the business.

Yes. And look I think I don't have in front of me Alex the same-store sales. Certainly the last half of the year helped the overall slow business in the Wealth Management sector. If you ask me just to look forward though, I would say generally speaking that I would expect the increase in same-store sales to be higher in 2024 than it was in 2023.

We got off to a rocky start in 2023. And with the equity markets where they are today and our outlook, I see some relatively good performance over 2023 for 2024 versus 2023 versus 2022

Well, we have -- first of all, we've been repositioning the balance sheet. All right as we have adapted to a new environment where deposits aren't just free flowing all over the place and trying to keep an eye on various sectors and credit considerations of loans, you'll see as Jim mentioned, we sold nearly $0.75 billion in syndicated, broadly syndicated loans which were really put on almost just a spread lending type strategy and where we intend to deploy that much more focus to more of a relationship type relationship, deposits, other opportunities that we can provide for the firm. And with all that said, we really haven't had a diminishing loan demand. We've just muted it. So I see today this is a good time to be in the lending business. And that is what -- that's just I would say relative to before and we see now and as it relates to stock repurchases and the interplay on that, we'll grow from relatively flat to $2 billion. If we're up $2 billion that's call it $200 million of capital, plus our dividend, leaves ample room for additional share repurchases ample.

Yes. I think that our margins will improve obviously as -- you almost start with the Institutional side of the business, we as you can see, we essentially broke even on revenues of about $1.3 billion. And contrast that with 2021 which we may always look back at saying that was a really phenomenal year. But that said, it was a $2.2 billion and profitability of $400 million plus. So, with you can almost draw a line between the $1.3 billion and $2.2 billion and see the leverage in earnings that we would expect. And that will drive our margins best laid plans Of Mice and Men.

But if we but if the markets cooperate, we'll see margins that can get back into the mid-20%s, as we see our growth in wealth management continuing. The offset being that we offset a lot of the weakness in the Institutional business by growing NII to up to almost $1.2 billion.

As you can see in our guidance, we would expect some modest declines in net interest income being more than offset by the potential that you're referring to in our Institutional business.

Yeah. What I said in my prepared remarks was, we the fourth quarter had I think a 27% increase if we sort of excluded that legal charge. I was just trying to point we had a pretty good quarter. And we're seeing that now or just that was to illustrate that.

The regulatory environment, I'm not sure that really is changing. I feel that as a, maybe as a headwind for the industry the level of regulatory resolutions seems to be markedly higher than what it's been in the past.

But we'll see as this plays out hard to predict that. But certainly the off-channel communications was a significant factor for not only Stifel, but frankly everyone that's been dealing with that.

And I would add that as I think we talked about in previous calls and we've made some meaningful hires in that space both in the SBA and in the Jenny space which deals with origination and provides product to many of our end buyers. And so that wasn't -- that's just getting ramped up, and that's a not less than material opportunity for us with the hires we've made there. So I think that just underscores that I think it is a reasonable jumping off place.

For asset management fees?

Well, we're talking about percentage of net revenue, okay? And so, first of all, there's always some noise in our fourth quarter. As always, if you look, you'll always see that is historically higher. I mean we just we have really pushed a cutoff on all of our expenses to make sure that they're in. And if you go back over years, you'll see that the fourth quarter tends to be above trend for the year. And there's leverage in the model. So while I expect non-comp expense to increase, as we raise revenues that's where the leverage in the model. That's why we see our margins getting into the mid-20s because of that percentage will come down as revenues rebound.

Well, for sure. I mean, the engagement in the tone and frankly, some deals getting done is definitely improving. I'm cautious Chris just because we've been talking about improvements in green shoots and all of that for quite a while here. So the -- I just see the tone being much better. We asked about where is certainly health care, industrials, FIG and Tech. So it's kind of broad-based when we look at our pipeline.

I just want to make a more generalized comment here, which is we've been through pretty much a recession in this business with equity capital raising down like 70% over almost whatever time frame you want to compare it to as it relates to 2021 and M&A down 50%. And that environment is not going to continue.

So, we -- I definitely see improved business. I don't want to try to comment as to how steep the curve of the improvement will be. But certainly as we start the year, we're seeing improved engagement and our pipelines and our engagements are improving. And simply there's a lot to do. There's been a lot of strategic and financial considerations and decisions that have been delayed in the face of inflation at 8% and the Fed rising 500 basis points very quickly. That certainly puts a damper on the timing of activity. And now as we see that stabilizing and in fact the consensus is that that's going to go down you're going to see improved activity. I think that's pretty clear.

I think there's as AI read and listened looking at some of The Street's comments on this. I'd love to take a moment just to clarify how we look at that all, right? I view third-party bank sweep balances to be part-and-parcel part of our sweep program, all right?

We control the -- if you will the valve on what we want to do. So if we it's just where we're allocating our deposits. So that is just deposits that we're choosing now not to have on the balance sheet of Stifel. There if you will diverted to third-party banks. No one is making that decision other than us is the best way to say that. And we could turn around and bring those back on balance sheet as needed or increase it. So you need to look at in my opinion you have to look at sweep deposits and third-party combined.

Yes. I mean look it could have been up one, okay? And then I would you've had the same question. It's down one. I think that we see -- since 2019 we see our MDs are up some what do we say 33%, okay? And most of those MDs that there's been is in banking in terms of leveling it out. And look we have a lot of capability here. I think that our viewpoint is that we're not quickly going back to 2021 levels. And we not only want market share we want to make money. And so we're balancing those.

You can -- it becomes it's a big strategic decision to really hire into what you think is going to be a very robust market. And if that doesn't happen that causes other problems. So we're being balanced as we always are, but we have very capable bankers, very capable services and we are well-positioned as we sit here today for rather significant improvement in the market everyone will do well including our shareholders we need to drop this activity down in EPS.

I know. I know. But if – you know, look one of the things that just good. Yes, when we go back to the other question also remember and we see this on the Wealth Management side and I think this drives activity. And a lot of our clients that have invested in alternatives in the private equity our private equity needs to return money to limited partners, okay? They want to raise new funds but you also need to have realizations and return capital. And that's been on pause a little bit. So as I can see a lot of things that are requiring some transactions to get done so that private equity can sort of recycle the capital back. You can't sit there on these investments for 15 years. And so we definitely have to see a lot of discussions around the broad topic of returning capital to limiteds.

Definitely.

I can expand that if you want me to.

No. No. Again you're -- as markets as the interest rates go up and the spread widens between bid offer, expectations in M&A not just strategic, but the ability to have realizations in private equity, one of the drivers is returning capital. It's hard to raise a new fund when you haven't consummated your last one.

And so that is driving bid offer expectations tighter and there's a lot of discussions going on, on this. And that's again just speaking to the overall tone in that market, which is an improved market environment in that and frankly across the markets. So, absent any external shock to the system, that's why we see improvement here.
Well very good. I want to thank everyone for taking the time to listen to our results. Look forward to talking to you about what I believe will be an improving environment in 2024 as we go through the year and into 2025. So, thank you everyone for your time and we look forward to communicating again next quarter. Have a good day.
