Ron Clarke
FLEETCOR Technologies, Inc. (FLT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So the model that we've used has gotten a bit better over the last 12 months. And I think I called out credit losses coming in literally about half of the prior year. So I'd say we're going to kind of open this spigot carefully. And then second, again, that we're pointing to larger prospects, which generally have better credit. So I guess we have the full year plan just a smidge lower than full year '23, but it should help on the revenue side.

Glad to be back at kind of the basic buying company. So the primary focus, Pete, is on corporate payments. So we've got a pipeline of a couple of interesting things in that space. And then the one other area that we're kind of on is this consumer capability, this idea again of getting a big block of consumers that we can market all of our networks to. So I would say those would be the two short term things to look for.

I mean, in a nutshell, Ramsey, I call it, the story of the quarter was same store sales. So I call that it was minus 3%. and if you went back to our prior transcripts, Q4 of '22 would have been plus 2. So in that 12 month period, basically, we went from plus 2 to minus 3. So obviously, that's 5 points of organic growth. So that's the whole story. Retention was good, sales were good, expense controls, credit below the line, everything effectively in Q4 through my lenses was kind of in line stands that one call out. And so I tried to kind of go through it, they obviously were surprising to me since I looked through the guide pretty carefully. Really it's just two or three pockets that are not new. If you go back and look at what we communicated in '23, we would have talked about lodging having some softness in the base, the partner channel and payables having some softness, the pivot from micro accounts, which shed a bunch of late fees, unfortunately, credit losses. And so, basically, I'd say those three things that I called out were just heavier, weighed on the downside, say, we're looking at kind of 1% to 2% minus same store and it came in at 3%. And so that's really the story of the quarter. And so the good news, if there is any, is in all three of those cases, it deals like in the data showing even through January, it looks like we've hit the bottom. So the thought process that we have is that we climb out of the same store sales, almost the reverse pattern. So minus 3, minus 2 basically getting that thing back to positive, because that book of business basically flatlined into '24. So that's basically the perspective on it. So it's really no new things. It's things that we have seen that basically were a bit heavier in the quarter than we outlooked.

Look, it's a super complicated question, right, which is why we spent 11 months on [Multiple Speakers] too quick with an answer here. But look, the main thing against just with straight [indiscernible] I think we said was uncertainty of the trading range of RemainCo wasn't so much. We got a great Corporate Payments business, it was really what's the multiple on the RemainCo. So I think that caused us to pivot into this stance partner to -- if we were going to separate things to do something that would have scale and synergies. And so the short answer to that is we engaged with three or four different partners and it's a combination of either the synergies didn't pan out to be as good as we thought or we couldn't agree relative valuation or one case, maybe social issues around it. So these kinds of combinations, as you guys know, are always quite difficult. But I did say it seriously, we've learned a lot, we’ve looked at a lot of structures, we've met a bunch of people. And so we will continue to look. The focus now is back on buying things in our lane and obviously rebuilding this vehicle business some. But we are open a different day to relooking at it again. So kind of close for now, but not forever.

So I mean the headline of why I called this out is, over the last two or three years, we've done a fair amount of what I’d term capability acquisitions. And really behind the scenes, those have been some tech capability acquisitions, right? The Corpay One, we bought an AP platform, a software platform called the [indiscernible] at the front end. We bought a European workforce business with a brand new platform. And so the tech that we got allowed us to spin up kind of some, what I’d call them internally kind of next-gen products that I described at the top. And so we're out selling them now, we've got a pretty robust sales plan for them. So I would say the convert would be next year. The key thing for us to report this year to you is sales of those products. And then obviously, next year, as those roll into revenue, basically, we'd expect the acceleration. So the key is what's the reception, does the market like these three or four things that we'll put in front of them.

It sounds like most things, some things stay the same and some things are different. So the most important thing for us, as you know, is sales, which is why I call out the growth rate. And I think I called out for the full year last year 20, that's our target again for 2024, obviously, off of a bigger base. So the first thing is we've had success selling and expect the same here in '24. Two, is the retention is getting a bit better. And as we flush those micro accounts last year, structurally, that should help retention. So you take those two things, those underpin, as you know, the basic right new business versus losses is the key to a recurring business. So the wildcard, the bet here has been the softness thing, which, again, entered the year in the plus column and then ended the year in the minus column. So that thing turning or getting, Tien-Tsin, back to flat, I think, is the most important in the acceleration. But then on top of that, we've got some super new pricing ideas around the technology as the new dynamic pricing, for example, where we could price rooms and lodging different for someone walking into a hotel than someone who prebooks three weeks ago instead of a platform that didn't let us differentiate. We've got a few new partners that we've signed that we haven't announced that will come on. And then to your point, we've got a big plan around cross-sell, adding a buck for vehicle insurance every time people park if they want it to basically lay the fear of something happen to their car while they park. So it's a pretty balanced. I'd say it's not super different than the past. But I would say that the new products and some of the cross-sell should be a little more supportive than historically.

Say the last part, Darrin, where you go on guiding to what is in 24…

So let me take that last part and then my way back to the beginning of your question. So yes, if you looked inside our quarterly role that thing would go from kind of low mid single digit up to 10%. So the internal plan we have is exactly what you said to the vehicle organic growth rate to accelerate. So the two drivers of that beyond the normal things of retention, which should get better again structurally because we kicked out the micro accounts. And obviously, sales being good is the new products that I just talked about, right, some extensions in both the core fuel card business and in the trucking business, and to your point, the EV thing working. But the second one is this consumer, it's just all incremental. So to the extent that we can take 2 million people in the UK and another couple of million people, which we'll talk about soon in Brazil, and add on three or four services that we already have, it's just every dollar there is incremental and pretty profitable. So those are really the two drivers. The base, same store sales, retention and new sales, which we have a good handle on and then the couple of new things on the new products and the consumers. So look, we're bullish on it. Obviously, we had a pivot in this vehicle thing and then a bit distracted working on this restructuring. But I think where we're headed now is super clear.

And it's one of the reasons, Darrin, someone send me some text, hey, the revenue looks a little light. And we've effectively taken $20 million, $30 million of late fee revenue out and $20 million to $30 million of credit losses out. So it's been basically kind of a one-for-one swap, which people out there may not like, but I like the ratability of having lower credit losses. And so to Tom's point, that portfolio shift kind of moved both revenue and expense.

So if you think about what we call a channel business, it's some third party US customers where we provide virtual card processing. And the basic trend, which started two years ago, is those partners effectively moving from an exclusive relationship with us to nonexclusive. So I, Ron are used to use you for 100% of my processing, someone told me it's a good idea to have two providers. So over time, I'm going to kind of give you half the business or I'm going to try to haircut your rate. So effectively, over the last two years, Darrin, we've gone from having, call it, 15 really important partners that we were exclusive with to having 15 partners we’re not exclusive with. So the good news on this one is we have the contracts now four '24 that have us flat with '23. So our print for that business, which moved its way down during the course of '23, we're out looking effectively flat revenue in that business across into '24. So instead of every quarter saying oh, the Corporate Payments business was great, but hey, the channel business was crummy, hopefully, you'll hear me say that in '24. The answer will be it will be flat.

I'd say not much change. So I think we said it before that acceptance or not acceptance of a virtual card turns really more on the profile of merchants. Merchants that have obviously higher margins, for example, are more accepting or merchants more need a cash flow because they're paid sooner. So I'd say there's really nothing super new. Kind of the opt-out rate, if you will, has been pretty steady. And again, who takes the car is really a function of kind of who the merchant is. So nothing new.

I mean, simplistically, Nate, we used to do not knock on a midsized company, hi CFO and hey, we've got some great expense management products here. And mostly, the pitch was kind of menu based or a la carte. Hey, it looks like you got some drivers, we've got fuel cards. Looks like you need a better control business card, given some of the expenses that are coming in or one that's got automated expense reimbursement. So historically, that's how we presented things. And so the idea was to be able to have kind of a wrap or rebate or look at the spend of the whole company. So knock knock, hi CFO, you've got walk around spend, you've got AP spend. I could combine all of that and give you 100 basis points back, 0.5 million a month back and make your life easier. How does that sound? So we finally have a platform where all those things, the walk around stuff and the AP automation stuff is literally brought together, call it, in terms of one report, one credit underwriting system and stuff. And so that's the idea that we could present now to a company effectively a package deal, if you will, instead of an a la carte deal. So we just literally been underway, call it, just what you said, call it, a month or so with the first set of leaves in it. But clearly, it's going to be the future. My hope is even if we sell someone a la carte the first day that they're on the railroad, it's easier to go back, they've learned how to use the UI, they know once we have an account we credit underwritten them and stuff. And so we think it certainly lends to better add-on sales over time.

I got to jump in because I’m clearly the optimist here. Play it off Tom. But I'd say it's all -- it's shiny days, right, living through 2023 with a $200 million interest expense boat anchor and sitting here at the beginning of the year with half FX and declining interest rates. It feels super great to get earnings print back to 15% or 18% that we can print instead of whatever we printed last year. So I would say that it's setting up at this moment to be super positive, so we’re super happy with it.

I mean it's happening in different places. I think we've called out before, it's probably 20% of the Brazil sales now in the company are taking add-on products there and selling them back to the core base. We're underway with that, as I said, with the parking app because we've got millions of consumers. We're back reselling something back into the base of Corporate Payments back into the fuel card base. So it's clearly in our sales plan. I'd say it's a probably relatively significant number as we get through the year in terms of what we're expecting there. So it's been a core part of the idea of we've got, as you know, 800,000 business clients and some number of them are pretty big. And so having more things to offer them has always been part of the idea. So I think it's meaningful this year.

Sheriq, give page number again, you said 27?

So look, I preface it with, it's still early days. I guess, we've been running this analysis for, what, eight quarters or something and have 300 or 400 accounts in it. So look, we know a paramount. We have real customers that are paying real bills and paying us more. I'd say to you this conceptually the reason that I think we can get paid the same or more, just to me simplistically is there's just more purchase. So in the fuel business, let's say, in the UK, there's 9,000 gas stations, but we have 1 million drivers there. So someday, when every guy or gal has an EV, there's going to be 1 million incremental charge points. It's way more than 9,000 public charging points. And so the ability, again, to help a company make the transition from some old fashion gas stations, some public charging to the 1 million at home, bring that all together and keep it simple is useful and the scope of what they pay for charging and fuel are our fees are peanuts. And so it feels to me like we know what we're doing. And more importantly, we have products that they like I think it doubled, Tom, year-over-year. And so I feel better about we've got the right solution, clients like it and clients are paying for it and the they're paying more down than the whole fashion thing. So I'd say stop ringing the frigid fire alarms. It would be my comment to people, hey, there's a lot of time in front of us. But I would not be super fray sitting here today.

Let me take that and then Tom can add to it. So I mean, conceptually, the main reason is the same store sales. So if you think about math, right, of how to get to 10%, right, we lose business, right, 8%. We make sales and then we have the same store sales. And so the bet that we have, which we're seeing in the trends, is it the same store that was plus two four quarters ago and was minus 3 this past quarter will head back to flat. And if that does, obviously, that example lifts the organic thing by 3 points. So that's A. B, we think the retention, again, will likely tick up because of this micro flush. When you have more bigger accounts, you structurally just have better retention. And then third, our Corporate Payments business is growing faster and it has higher retention rates than our fuel card business. So those two things, as we model it will help the back half. And then hopefully, the set of new products and the cross sell stuff, which we're pouring out now that will start to build those add-ons will start to build in the back half. So that's what makes up the curve as we run through the year.

It's just that channel thing that I said before. I mean, that literally was the point of our same store sales reduction. We would have been 2% if that business was flat. So again, it's just a big partner that gives us lots of volume and no money goes, dates around and goes non-exclusively. And so, hey, we lose a little bit of revenue and we lose a lot of volume.

But again, just to -- you said for finer point on the thing, I want to make sure people have heard that we have the business to have contracted, right, for '24. So that helps us relate to you guys that we’ve hit the bottom there, because when I look at what's effectively contracted, inside of the minimums we have, we're kind of done with that dating around, there's no more dating. If you day one or two people any more I mean that's where it is. So if there's any good news, that's the good news here.

And again, just add the point is it helps the flow through into earnings, right? Although, it looks like revenue is light when you take those late fees out, because you're taking out the credit loss expense, basically, you have a decent flow through down to EPS. So that's one of the reasons that the profit flow through remain pretty good.