Ronald Tutor
Tutor Perini Corporation (TPC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks.

Well, the Building project in Florida, we find ourselves with an unbonded sub that we've had to finance through to the completion of this work so as to not impact our performance and candidly, we don't think there's any way to get the money back. So we took the hit. In the Specialty Group, we had continued significant write-downs on the newer job by both our mechanical and electrical subsidiaries. And Gary, if you could elaborate on anything beyond those that were specific to the fourth quarter that's what I recall.

We're just coming back from COVID and two years of virtually nothing happening in the Civil business, no dispute. It's like the world stopped and it's back going again. And even though, we were low bidder on over $11 billion worth of work in the last 18 months, none of which got awarded as over budget. They're all coming back on the market, and we really expect to get a significant share of this new work. So we think our backlog is going to break every record and our revenue will go back to where it was and more.

I'll give you my sense first, and then Ryan, you can chip in with your knowledge of the numbers that I'm sure better than mine. The Civil business will continue to grow, particularly as we add new work, and it's very strong with no issues anywhere. The Building business is turning around dramatically. Not only the prison in New York, but Rudolph and Sletten is in the process of transferring from pre-construction activities major contract awards we expect to see next year. So there's no question the Building business will go back to very significant profitability, and the Specialty business is simply restricted and continuing to be reduced to where other than Fisk in Texas. Most of the work they do is either with us or our subsidiaries in servicing the parent company and not out in the overall marketplace.

No, it's not by quarter. It's really -- we have made certain allowances for potential settlements and adverse judgments that we think are very safe. But it's important to note that we believe that we're coming back to a reasonable degree of profitability with years to follow significantly better, because, frankly, there'll be no more litigation and/or disputes to try to settle or to settle for less than what we're entitled to.

We're bidding all the time, and we're waiting any day for the $800 million Amtrak Tunnel that we bid two months ago. We're going to be bidding the Inglewood billion dollar transit project in the second quarter, the heart job at $2 billion at the end of the second quarter. We are just -- we're bidding these major jobs as significant with never more than two other bidders and in most cases, one other bidder. So the competition is diminished and it's certainly seen as an opportunity, and we're still hopefully going to be attacking the jobs we've already been low out, and there's an unprecedented number of large projects hitting the marketplace where the competition is very limited.

Well, the way to explain it is simple. We have basically argued with and successfully been able to dictate higher mobilization payments on the theory. We don't work on our dollars. We work on the owners. And in most cases, the projects have put much higher mobilizations, payments, anywhere from 8% to 10%, when most jobs have nominal 1% to 3% mobilizations. That in the fact we, as most contractors tried, stay ahead of the owner's money.

On the theory that there's no reason for us to invest our capital to build an owner's project. So that's about the simplest way to sum it up, and I think that trend will continue.

No.

Well, we hope to reduce the bond issue principle significantly. We've reduced the term loan, and from what we're projecting in cash flows over the next two years to three years, there's no reason not to reduce our leverage to seasonal lows. The interest rates are so terrible that there's no reason to borrow if we're going to generate this level of cash flow because the company is well financed as we speak. So the additional cash generated over the next two years, I can't think of a better way to use it than the reduced debt further, particularly at these absurd interest rates.

And I might add, as well as the drag the interest is on our earnings.

You want to speak to that. I assume that means currently in the second quarter refinancing as opposed to future.

You're looking at --

Well, in the short-term, we paid the term loan from $420 million to $260 million give or take a million. We intend to reduce the bond issue when we reset the bonds be it private or public, significantly less than the $500 million, and that's current. So that takes place in 60 days. So as we continue to collect cash, there's no reason to even stay with those levels of debt. We'll reduce it as it's appropriate, given the liquidity needs and the excess of cash.

Assuming we get our revenue back up to $5.5 billion or more, which was where it was and should be back there hopefully within the next 12 months to 15 months. I think a normalized amount of CIE is always going to hover around 5% of revenue. So if it was me to project $250 million to $300 million of costs in excess, disputed matters, however you want to classify them, would be something reasonable. Ours got out of control, exacerbated by a two-year hiatus in the courts, thanks to COVID, where our world just stopped as they accumulated and didn't resolve. Conversely, by the end of this year, we expect CIE to be reduced dramatically from where it is even now. Everything's finally coming to an end. The owners either have a trial date or they're asking for mediation. It can't be stalled off anymore.

There's three components to it.

No, no, no.

5% for disputes. I'd add no more than 2% for timing and open changes in negotiations. See, the disputed claims is always the LION's share of it. So if you wanted to add another $100 million on top of $250 million to $300 million that should be the maximum.

One of the things that has happened in the last three years and unfortunately, we got practically everything we bid over a period of 14, 15 months, it resulted in $11.5 billion of new work, all of which got rejected over budget, all of which is coming back out to bid. What we've also done, given the limited competition, we are going to every owner because once you get over $1 billion there's only two or three companies, including foreigners in the U.S. that can even bid it, let alone do it.

So we go into their terms and we dictate changes of terms on the theory, if you have any owners' terms, you either change them or you won't bid. And they're usually faced with two bidders. So if one of them withdraws, they only get one bid. So we've been able to affect almost every change that is required on owners' contract terms. Adhere to four in the past when they had four or five bidders on every job, the owner's attitude, well, then don't bid, if you don't like our contract. Well, the worm is turned.

I can't give you a win rate. I would say if we took all the billion dollars and up that we bid, I could probably dig it out, but I'd guess we're a 50% win rate or better.

Thank you so much for your patience. Hopefully, we've given you information that's helpful. And until the next quarter, thank you.
