Russell Weiner
Domino's Pizza, Inc. (DPZ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Brian. How are you doing? Let me talk a little bit about what we're seeing as far as the cadence of the flow of orders from Uber. Sandeep talked about the 0.4 in Q4, and we're seeing a meaningful uptick in Q1, we just turned the marketing on and so essentially, and same with Uber. So essentially, what we expect to see as awareness grows, is that percent of sales grow, and we feel like we're still in line for the 3% exit rate that we spoke about.

Yeah. Lauren, when you think about our Hungry for MORE strategy, renowned value is a big piece of it. And the carryout special isn't something new. It's something we brought back. I think the last time, we ran it was 2020. And frankly, that's going to be part of our portfolio moving forward as well as 50% off as well as our mix and match deal. Value is a key component not only price but value from a loyalty standpoint and value in the aggregator space. So yeah, the weak loan carryout wasn’t anything new, but what I will tell you, it performed extraordinarily well. I’m really happy with the way it went.

Yeah. We still feel really strongly about the guidance we gave, the 1,100 plus stores and 5,500 over the next five years. I mean you saw some really nice momentum at the end of the year in the U.S. in 2023. We expect to see more at the end of the year in 2024. Internationally, I think we've got a lot of closures behind us, that was probably one of the things that was driving down the number this year. But those closures really focused on three areas. Domino's Pizza Enterprises, and they talked about their number, Russia and Brazil.

Those three were over 80% of our closures and no other market closed more than five stores. And so as we look forward, we feel really confident about openings. And I'm sure someone will ask a little bit later, but when you look at the profitability of our U.S. franchisees, you look at the fact that for the -- we had more new franchisees in 2023 than we have in the last 15 years, they're bullish about Domino's Pizza, and they're spending their money that way.

Yeah. Andrew, absolutely. When I think about 2023, it was kind of a tale of two stories for us. The first part of the year was all about addressing the base and fixing things like delivery times and getting delivery times back to where they needed to be and getting franchisee profitability back where it needed to be, so that in Q4, we were able to really lean into the Hungry for MORE strategy and you saw it all in action. You saw most delicious food with innovation. You saw a renowned value from a promotional standpoint with loyalty. And so all of those things are going to be able to continue throughout 2024 with this improved base that we've got. So yeah, I expect both carryout and delivery orders to be positive.

Yeah, Dennis. The loyalty program was just off to -- it's off to a great start. I'll just repeat numbers that we had in the opening remarks because I just like them so much. We added 3 million folks last year, 2 million of them came with a new program. And so it's important to know because I'll talk about Emergency Pizza in a second and the effect on loyalty there. But the loyalty program out of the gate before even Emergency Pizza was doing exactly what we needed it to do, which was engage lower-frequency users, engage carryout users, then we brought in this powerhouse of Emergency Pizza that continue to inflect those numbers. And we have ideas like that in the future that we'll be able to drive, there will be advantages and there are advantages to be in a Domino's Rewards customer.

I'll give you a little bit more color about the users. It's doing exactly what we thought it would which is driving frequency, especially among the lower frequency customers, as I said before, also the carryout customers. And even though we have these lower tier levels, we're down to two purchases now can get you a free item. Because of the food cost at these various tiers, it’s actually positive for the franchisees. So really, as I said, a win-win, a better program that’s more engaging to customers and more profitable for our franchisees.

Yeah. I'd just add those same transactions also add up to a low fees, online ordering fees as well. Yeah.

David, I'll start, maybe Sandeep, you can give some color to this one, too. Emergency pizza was a resounding success. It really was. And when I look back and just, again, giving complements to our marketing team, this is your traditional buy one get one free, that has been marketed in such a way that it really breaks through. We've done buy one get one free before. They've done nothing like this.

And when I think about Emergency Pizza, what I like is not only what it did to order count, it also drove people into the loyalty program because you need to be a loyalty member in order to get your Emergency Pizza. I think last, we have a new thing in our arsenal now. Boost weeks have worked really well for us. We've got this Emergency Pizza piece now, and I expect this is ownable from our perspective. And so this is something we'll be able to use in the future as well. Sandeep, if you want to add some color?

Yeah. That was a big learning from us for the first loyalty program we had. With Piece of the Pie rewards, we advertised on TV, hey, we have a rewards program. And what we learned over time is actually the best way to tell people that you have a rewards program is have a really compelling promotion, whether it's a new product or something like Emergency Pizza that the only way you can get it is, if you sign up for the program.

And once you sign up for the program, you're in this flywheel of frequency driving point levels that we've never had before. And so I think Emergency Pizza was a highlight. But as Sandeep talked about, that type of mechanism driving people into the loyalty flywheel is something we’re going to continue to – a play will continue to run.

Good morning, John. I'll take the first question, maybe Sandeep will take the second one. Our European business is really strong, and we believe some of the pressures we're seeing there are generally transitory in nature. If you listen to the call from DPE, Domino's Pizza Enterprises, our master franchisee over several markets, but especially France, there have been some challenges there, and that's one of our larger markets in Europe. We're partnering closely with them right now on those challenges.

What I'd point to for DPE in general, there are green shoots in a lot of the markets where they're really leaning in on. And so, for example, Australia, New Zealand, the numbers there have been fantastic. And one of the reasons why is, they're leaning into the M, the most delicious food part of Hungry for MORE. I mean, I don't think anyone is doing it better than they are right now. They give a little insight into Japan into the first kind of six, seven weeks of the second half and how that seems to have turned a corner. Germany is positive. So we're working on France together, and that's certainly a business that needs to turn.

But the nice thing about what our supply chain team has done, the productivity we gained in 2023, it's not going back and so, I would think about that as kind of accruing forward. So well done by Sandeep and the team (ph).

Yeah, Peter. There are -- I'd say a couple of meaningful moves in the loyalty program. First was just the launch of the loyalty program, right? We saw a meaningful increase, and that's what we talked about with you in December. And then building on top of that, we had some more momentum driven by Emergency Pizza. So I'd say loyalty program on its own did well is doing very well. We have added a little bit more gas on the fire with Emergency Pizza.

And as we continue into Q1, now with Emergency Pizza behind us, we’re still very happy with the way that’s growing, and we’ve got programs like Sandeep talked about earlier that we’ll continue to drive that business. The other thing, and you talked about this that I’m really happy with is the big objective here was to engage carryout customers and to engage light users. And we are absolutely doing that with the program. And we can see that even out of the gate so far.

And on the state of the industry, I think and this is really even looking forward to 2024. A lot of what we expect is QSR there to be real pressure on orders and transactions. We don’t expect that to be the case with Domino’s, and I think will be unique in that area in 2024.

Yeah. Well, actually, maybe I'll start out talking about India because I was speaking over the weekend to Hari Bhartia, who's the Chairman of Jubilant. I mean that's a great example of both dynamics you talk about. And so obviously, they're pushing the business there. It's some headwinds. But what Hari talked about is what's going on in the rest of the industry and why he's bullish and while he's looking for the future. And while they're talking about 200 stores to grow in 2024 is because he's growing share. And so what I love about our franchisees is that they're future focused. And I think you see a lot of folks doing what they're doing in India. That's why we think the second half is going to return to that 3% that we talked about. Anything to add?

On the transactions piece, we believe that our transactions being positive is something that, like I said, is that is unique in the industry. We'll get more share information as that comes out, and we'll certainly share that with you. On speed of delivery, the biggest comparison -- the biggest comparison we have is versus ourselves. And every day, we expect to get better than the day before. So we're happy that we're back to 2019 levels.

We're now moving more volume into that delivery network. And we're doing everything we can, not only to make sure that the delivery times or where they need to be. But more importantly, we haven't talked a lot about this is that the quality is there. And so when you think about our Hungry For MORE pillars, the first M is about most delicious food and so just delivering a pizza on time is one thing. It's got to be great. And one of the things that I talk about, hopefully, there are no Boston Red Socks fans on the call today of a Yankee fan.

And there's a famous player, Joe DiMaggio who there's a quote Somebody asked him one, why you play so hard every game. And what he said was there's going to be someone who sees me for the first time in that game and so I'm playing for them. And that is how we need to approach making our pizza. Every pizza you're making is for your mom, right? And that's what some of these sprints are all about with more delicious operations. We're making promises in our advertising we need to deliver it, and it's more than just time. It's quality, it's consistency in all of those. And we like to say, down, we don't sell 1 million pizzas a day. Our goal is to sell one pizza a day 1 million times. And that's kind of the new thinking behind Delicious operations.

Yeah. Thanks for the question. It's a good time for me to clarify that. I think the future of the benefits of Pulse is actually now, right? We talked about [indiscernible] and accelerating the areas within the circle of operations that make the biggest difference in our business. And so yes, next-generation pulses in stores now, some stores in the U.S. will be rolling out to a bigger degree later on in 2024.

But the most important element, the ones that are going to drive the operational efficiencies, the more delicious food, the improved atmosphere -- working atmosphere for our team members. Those are out in the [indiscernible] with current pulse and the next-generation pulse. Hopefully, that clarifies it.

The Microsoft – the answer to your Microsoft question is we’re working really in two areas with Microsoft and generative AI. One is on the consumer ordering side. We are not waiting for the new website to come in to see something on that. So you’ll see something that in 2024. And then also on the store side and what can we do with Generative AI to make the experience better on our team members in store. And so we’ll have more to talk about both of those in 2024.

Yeah. Sure. I don't really like to talk a lot about competitors. I mean, a competitor we have is ourselves, and we try to get better than ourselves every day, and I think you see that in our Q4 results. I talked in general about it probably being a year that's less about order count. And we'll see how folks adjust to that and when they do, be happy to comment on that through the year.

I didn't quite hear your second question. Can you repeat the second -- even though we're only supposed to ask one I'm joking. Yeah, products. Thank you very much. Yeah, on the product side, couple of things. One is we're really happy that we've got our pan pizza out there now. But that's not a new product, and you should know that is not counted among the kind of two plus new products we're going to have this year.

But what you do see with that is, we haven't talked about pan pizza since 2014. So while I'm not counting it on my list of new products, it's something that's new to a lot of people and something that is really shot. If you look at the way we shot that commercial in the new way of kind of romancing the deliciousness of our pizza. So we're out with product news. News on a product for the first time in a long time, but that's not part of our two new product scheme for this year.

Yeah. Thanks a lot for the question. When we have calls like this and what I -- what I tell people is you're ever wondering how the Domino's Pizza brand is going to do in the future, you look at what your franchisees are doing. And franchisees right now from a profit standpoint, obviously really positive versus where they were the year before.

We opened up more stores really heavy towards the end of the year when things became clear there, yet we're still very positive that we're going to beat that number in 2024 and hit our 175 plus algorithm. The 60 to me means that we've got young of encumbers within our system that for the first time in 15 years, it's bigger than -- or bigger than we have had in 15 years, which means they see a really positive future.

And the cool thing is as you look into '24, what I can tell you is two things. One is we already have 170 new potential franchisees that are either in or have graduated our franchise management school, which is the last step you do before you either build a store or buy a store. And we have 50 already waiting on opens or transfers within the system. We're in February. And so I think some of the momentum you saw is going to continue. And that just shows what they are feeling about the brand where they want to invest.

Yeah. Thanks, Brian. There’s two advertising now for Domino’s on Uber. One is Domino’s and the other is Uber. And I think what we’re seeing on that platform is very promotionally driven. And the nice place. The nice thing is when you think of marketplaces and excelling on marketplaces, that’s what we do, whether it’s a Google marketplace or in this case, Uber. And so responding how you would think it’s very much promotionally driven, but we know how to excel in those areas, which is why we are confident that a percent of sales remover is going to increase to that 3% exit rate we talk about.

Yeah. What I can tell you, macro, we're still just a couple of months into this thing is what we thought we would see with regards to car customers and lighter user engagement, we are seeing. What we will do, John, is make sure throughout the year when we got more information under our belt, and we're able to give perspective because remember, loyalty programs are not just about the first use or the second it's about lifetime value and use over time. And so as we get more color on that, we’ll share.
