Russell Becker
APi Group Corporation (APG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Julian.

Yes, so I've just made a note here to make sure I answer all your questions, Julian. So on growth rate, yes the implied guide there for the first quarter is to be down in the first quarter as we comp against a strong quarter in prior years. Underlying what you're going to see there is in the safety services business, we expect to see continued mid-to-high single digit growth on the service side of the business, and we expect to see growth probably close to the lower single digits in the project side of the business in the first quarter. Again, a piece of that is just comping against a strong quarter and prior year.

On the specialty side of the business, while we'll see growth on the service side of the business as we continue to focus on backlog and getting that portfolio healthier and to a lesser extent comping against a mid-single digit growth in the prior year, we're going to see a reduction in the project side of the business, especially in the first quarter, which is really a continuation of what we saw in the back half of the year.

Underlying drivers in there in Q1 is going to be consistent with what we're seeing in the back half of 2023, which is lower material costs which results in a revenue drag due to lower material cost pass through, and then a focus on disciplined customer and project selection, which is really right sizing our portfolio. The thing I will highlight as we talk about organic growth in the first quarter for specialty is that we still expect these efforts to improve EBITDA dollars year-on-year and EBITDA margin year-on-year in the first quarter. So the work we're doing there is paying off from a profitability standpoint.

Just to conclude, you asked about sort of growth profile first half, second half. On the service side, we expect to see consistent organic growth in our service businesses throughout the year. On the project side, we just talked about the first quarter, that's really a first half thing we'll be working through as those projects business sort of annualize against the work we started on disciplined customer project selection and a healthier projects backlog.

So what you're going to see is subdued growth on the project side of the business, primarily in specialty and HVAC in the first half of the year. Turn it around to growth as we annualize against that in the back half of the year, resulting in back half growth rates that will be above first half growth rates.

Yes. So just to highlight the price is a mechanism that was in the Series B that allows for us to force conversion at $36.90. So that was the reason we landed on that price. To your question, what I would say on the buyback is the transaction was pulled together holistically and the way we've thought about this is looking at it holistically. So there's one part we like the value of our shares relative to our long-term prospects, for sure. There's also one part that this overall transaction allows for orderly transition of the shares, which we think benefit our common shareholders as well.

But when you look sort of at our prospects going forward, we're confident that we have a clear path to make the most of the opportunities in front of us focused on 13/60/ 80 [. We think we took a meaningful step this year. We're going to take a meaningful step, as you can tell, in 2024. And so although our shares are trading near all-time highs, our views are that the shares are attractively valued with additional upside potential given our long-term growth prospects and margin goals. And we also think that when we look at that, we couple that with the leadership's proven track record of execution, which all of that went into sort of the structuring of this transaction.

Well, I mean, I guess I'm just going to start by saying that end markets matter, Andy, and that the end markets that we've chosen to play in show robust opportunity for an extended period of time. And so we feel confident that we have kind of a runway in front of us that is going to allow us to remain focused on customer and project selection.
There's a few things that I would also say to that is that our diversity in the service offerings that we have, we're not doing these massive telecom programs and things like that. We do telecom work, but the programs, they're small and they're in different geographic areas and so I think that allows us to be more nimble.

I also think that this remains to be a relationship based business, and your ability to execute and focus on building relationships matters, and that helps you drive better results for your business in both good times and bad. And so I am not worried about it. I look at it as it's the right thing for us to do from a business perspective, and I remain very, very impressed with the discipline that our teams are showing in where they're going to continue to allocate their resources.

And in an environment where resources and skilled resources especially, and I'm talking predominantly here about field leaders, is constrained. Companies like ours that are making the investments in the men and the women that are actually doing the work in the field, I believe it's going to be a significant difference maker for us in allowing us to continue to attract the right people to our workforce, that is going to allow us to continue to provide the services that our customers need. So, I think that there's a lot in that question, but I really believe that our business is positioned better than most to continue to win in the environment that we're in.

So, Andy, I'm just going to add a little bit of color to Kevin, because when you think about the work that needs to be done there, if you remember, we started by addressing, so to speak, our corporate structure and expenses, and then we moved to kind of a country level leadership and then we said that we were going to move into branch optimization and we're really in branch optimization mode. And as part of that, we have a significant sales force optimization effort going on where as part of that work we need to, I guess, switch or convert to that inspection first mindset and that's a different sales force.

So there's a tremendous amount of work that's going to continue to go on through this year and into next year for us to continue to optimize the business and really move. And we still have work to move towards that branch based operating model that we employed here in North America. So the work, to a certain degree, like is never done, but we are continuing to, I think, see significant improvements in the overarching business. And to be totally honest with you couldn't be more pleased with the leadership of the company.

Thank you.

Yes. Good morning, Kathryn. Thank you for joining our call and I appreciate it. And yes, we're always looking for, looking at our businesses and making sure that we're evaluating the businesses as it relates to being additive to our long-term goals. We held a very small business for sale in the fourth quarter and expect to move forward and get that business sold here, hopefully early in the first part of this year. And we continue to evaluate our portfolio every single day, just like we evaluate our branches. And from a branch perspective, the reality of it is we really don't need to be anywhere, even though we may want to be someplace if we don't have the right leadership and can't solve for that leadership.

We're not afraid to close down a branch. And that all of that kind of comes into the calculus as we look across the broader aspects of the entire company. And we like to from a branch perspective, we like to look at our branch performances on a rolling five year average. And so we can see the trends, which businesses are growing, which ones are flat, which ones are declining. So we can evaluate leadership and make sure that we have the right business leaders at each individual branch level. So there's a lot that goes into it when you have as many branches that we do, but we're not afraid to make changes as necessary, whether that's a branch or whether that's an existing business that's inside the portfolio.

Not at all. Not at all. We feel that the transaction gives us the flexibility with our balance sheet to continue to move forward with our bolt-on M&A strategy. So nothing changes as it relates to what we're trying to accomplish there.

Thanks, Kathryn.

Good morning. How are you?

es. So I would say that we saw more of that pacing in 2023, specifically in the data center space with a couple of the hyperscalers. And where now you're seeing that kind of reverse itself in 2024 and with just the opportunities. We have a number of different data center facilities that were under design contract, and we don't have the project related or installation component of it yet. The semiconductor space continues to provide robust opportunity.

ESOP, Ford, pulled back a little bit on the EV space, but in general, the EV space remains very, very strong with demand really outpacing capacity. It's just a matter of being disciplined with where you're going to potentially put your resources. So we see, I believe that the outlook is really robust, and I think there's going to be plenty of opportunity as we work through the year.

Yes, for the right ones. And we have certain customers in that space where we have the inspection and service. We're doing the inspection and service work. And again, knowing our model, Andy, that we want to use the inspections first, that's going to drive service work for us, and then building that sticky client relationship through doing a great job executing, which is going to create opportunities for you to position yourself where you're not competing for that business on price. And if you're competing for that business just on price, we're not going to be able to achieve our margin expansion goals.

And the best part about the hyperscalers, if you will, is that, as a general statement, you have a fairly sophisticated owner who is making decisions based on value. Price is obviously always a component of that, but essentially, it's your ability to execute and get the work done. We get the work done safely.
That's all a big part of the calculus that they use when they're selecting their partners to do the work. So I think, again, it goes back to this customer selection, project selection and making sure that you're choosing the right places to work. A lot of the project related work also goes through the general contractor community.
There is a significant customer selection criteria that goes into that as well.

Yes, for the right ones. And we have certain customers in that space where we have the inspection and service. We're doing the inspection and service work. And again, knowing our model, Andy, that we want to use the inspections first, that's going to drive service work for us, and then building that sticky client relationship through doing a great job executing, which is going to create opportunities for you to position yourself where you're not competing for that business on price. And if you're competing for that business just on price, we're not going to be able to achieve our margin expansion goals.

And the best part about the hyperscalers, if you will, is that, as a general statement, you have a fairly sophisticated owner who is making decisions based on value. Price is obviously always a component of that, but essentially, it's your ability to execute and get the work done. We get the work done safely.
That's all a big part of the calculus that they use when they're selecting their partners to do the work. So I think, again, it goes back to this customer selection, project selection and making sure that you're choosing the right places to work. A lot of the project related work also goes through the general contractor community.
There is a significant customer selection criteria that goes into that as well.

No, I mean specialty. We expect organic growth and specialty to be lower than we expect it to be in safety. And it's really because of this disciplined customer. It's really, in that space, it's really disciplined customer selection, more so than it is even project selection. To be honest with you, Andy, and – like even with some of your telecom customers there’s, you have to be selective by geographic region because they're not all the same.

You might have great success with somebody in, say, New Jersey, but not in New York and so making sure that you're evaluating those different master service agreements and work programs that you're taking on really matters. And I would tell you that the segment leadership in Specialty has done really quite an amazing job with bringing customer selection into the mix there.

And again, I just go back to the fact that our business is very diverse, not only from a geographic perspective, but it's also very diverse in the service offerings and different components of that have better gross margin opportunities than others. And so understanding your customers, understanding the geography, and making sure that you're being thoughtful on how you approach it is what really matters at the end of the day.

Thanks, Andy.

Thank you. In closing, I would like to thank all of our teammates for their continued support and dedication to our business. We believe our people are the foundation on which everything else is built. Without them, we do not exist. I'd also like to thank our long-term shareholders, as well as those that have recently joined us for their support. We appreciate your ownership of API, and we look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the remainder of the year. Thank you again for joining the call this morning.

