Ryan Schneider
Anywhere Real Estate, Inc. (HOUS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Good morning. Thank you.

Yes. And look, we've been explicit that two-thirds of our cost reduction we think is totally permanent, right? We've been explicit in the past on the temp versus permanent split. And then remember, within that total margin we also have the 40-plus percent margin franchise business that we're loving our growth on and are strategically prioritizing along with the luxury area. And so we're always hoping we can do even more on that that helps the overall margin. But that franchise business and the financial octane we get from that is, frankly, probably one of the competitive advantages we've got.

Yes.

Well, look, first off, we're very happy to mitigate the risk with the nationwide settlement and obviously protecting our agents and franchisees from that. Exposure was a really important thing, and we feel glad we've accomplished that. And then obviously we can spend our management time and dollars on growing the business and supporting those folks.

We're not going to speculate on anything related to the DOJ. We do believe in the world that we need fewer mandatory MLS rules. We love the value agents provide and we are always thinking through different strategic ways that markets may evolve. But we were excited to get our settlements done, get the preliminary approval back in November and we look forward to the final approval on May 9th. And beyond that, I don't think we're in the speculation business.

Yes. So look, it's obviously any time that you're up versus down is good, and so that's a good thing right there. You all see the same rate stuff we see, so I won't try to read you too much of that. The geography mixes are different out there. Florida remains quite strong. We wish we had more inventory to sell in Florida. That is just kind of an awesome market that's doing great. New York is kind of lagging. New York, both Q4 and full year volume was down more than the market, national numbers and more than our portfolio. It's a big market for us. We love it. I'll bet on New York coming back. But it's been a little bit of a headwind.

And then like I said on the call, we're seeing listings taking be about flat basically, maybe a little bit positive year-over-year, but the places where listings are the best is actually in the luxury area we're the leader, and we like that. We're seeing cash offers at pretty much historical high levels. As I said in the script, we're seeing home selling in the first two weeks in our portfolio historically high levels. And so end of the day there is more demand than there is supply. Lower rates is going to help unlock more supply, obviously and we're rooting for that. And then the geographic mix out there is definitely different by part of the country, but we're excited that it's a little better than last year.

Thank you.

Well, I wouldn’t say the 2.5% rate is standard. I mean, there’s a pretty wide variation when you look across our portfolio. But putting that aside, to your question, I would say no, but I would actually start in a different place. And I ask this question to agents all the time, which is, what are they hearing from their customers? And while there’s a big increase in press on this topic, clearly, other than the days that the stuff shows up in a Wall Street Journal or New York Times, it doesn’t get much consumer attention is what I’m hearing.

Obviously, there’s a lot in the trade press that we all see and deal with everything. So, for example, I was at one of our Coldwell Banker Realty offices, I don’t know, 10 days ago, and I’m meeting with like 20 of our agents who were kind of the high-end award winners for their 2023 results. And I asked them that question. How many of you have had customers ask you about these commission news or lawsuits? And it was very few hands went up and it was, yes, I got one question or whatever kind of thing. I talked to another agent in Denver or emailed with her about she’s had like four people that she’s addressed it with kind of thing.

So yes, I don’t think it has like really gotten into the water in a way that has led to anything meaningfully changing yet. And that doesn’t mean we don’t watch it closely, and it doesn’t mean we’re not, as the earlier question asked, thinking very strategically about the future. But I don’t think it’s really, like I said, kind of in the water yet in a way that’s actually leading to anything.

On the flip side, though, we want to be ahead. We want to be innovators. We’re big users of buyer agent agreements, and we’re going to be expanding that dramatically. And part of the reason we’re doing that is we got ahead on this settlement thing. And so we kind of got a head start in doing that, we think. And so it’ll be, like I said in my script, there’s a lot going on here, but we’re going to keep being proactive, thinking about it, and hopefully the kind of strategic thinking and execution that led us to carve out a different position with the first nationwide settlement here gives you a little confidence that we’ll be thinking strategically about these other topics and will hopefully steer us to better outcomes than a lot of our competitors are getting.

Hi, John.

Yes. When you look at like December and January this time, I was quoting, both units and price were up. In one of the months I think price is up a little more than the units were, but we hadn’t seen units up in a long time. In fact, I think I said we hadn’t had open volume be up since December 2021. We hadn’t had units be up year-over-year since May of 2021, and then they were up in December. And so the up in both December and January was a little bit kind of both. But like I kind of said, like in January, I think the price was up, whatever, 5% or 6%, and the units were up 3% kind of thing. So it’s a mix of both. But it’s also, like I said, with units being up, we hadn’t seen that for 2.5 years kind of thing. So that’s encouraging.

And then, like I mentioned, listings are kind of flat in like Q4 year-over-year, but they’re up in the places that were strongest. We saw them up 5% in the $750,000 to $1 million range. We saw them up 4% in the $1 million to $5 million range. And that was – those numbers are better than the rest of our portfolio and kind of better in the market. And then we’re also seeing about 40% of our listings sold either at or above list price in December, 34% of our listings went under contract in two weeks or less, and last year was 33%. And in previous years, it was like in the 20s kind of percentages kind of thing. And then cancellation rates for us dropped in Q4, a couple of points versus 2022. So there's – we're on a low base here, but there’s some green shoots here that gave me the optimism to say what I said in the script.

Yes. So thanks for pointing that out. It’s funny, one of the things that happens when the housing market is really tough, like it was in 2022 and 2023, is you actually get some return to basics, right? Taking on cost and being really sharp and reengineering your business, like Charlotte talked about a lot, becomes really important. Another thing that became really important is lead generation like the number one thing our agents and franchisees want is high quality leads in a market when there’s obviously much fewer transactions than there is in a normal kind of housing market.

So we think kind of the high quality lead ecosystem we have is one of our competitive advantages and that we were able to continue to utilize it. And so we focus more on high quality referral leads. Our relocation business has always been a source there, but recently a lot of our expansion has come from a couple of places. One is mortgage partners. We built a stable of mortgage partners over the last four or five years to bring kind of high quality real estate leads to us, and that’s worked out well for them and for us in the ecosystem. And so that’s been one place that we’ve kind of expanded.

Second, we continue to invest in with AARP, who just has such a track record of successful programs with their members across different financial and non-financial products. And we really like that. We still play in certain things kind of from an online lead standpoint, but we’re not as interested in kind of the low quality leads that converted a 1% to 2% rate. We’re more interested in much higher quality, higher conversion leads that you get from affinity sources, relocation sources, et cetera. And we are excited to keep expanding that anytime we can.

Yes, yes. We’re really enjoying it. It’s an important thing for those of you who don’t know Upward Title well. It’s a way basically for our franchisees to join a title joint venture with multiple franchisees and doesn’t have to all be in the same brand to help our franchisees who don’t have access to title directly expand their revenue and expand their business in the real estate ecosystem and leverage the assets they have. We have national title presence. We’re good at running title companies, so that’s what we bring to it and we bring them together.

We introduced it in 2023. We’re now up to six states. So we started obviously with one state and then went to Florida and California was two states. Now we’re up to six states, Florida, SoCal, we’re in Texas, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Utah. We’ve got over 20 franchise partners in these things, more to follow and we’re getting frankly, some of our big franchisees are joining, as well as some of the more medium sized ones who can’t do title on their own.

So we like it. It’s the kind of thing of when you strategically want to grow your very high margin franchise business. We’re going to do the international and domestic expansion of brands like Sotheby’s International Realty and Corcoran for example. But another way you’re going to grow your franchise business is to help them just grow their revenue and also create stickiness, right. We love the long term kind of 10-year average contracts in franchise, but this is another way to create a strong connection to our ecosystem for franchisees. And so we’ve gone from nothing to six states, and we’re excited to keep going.


