Sachin Lawande
Visteon Corporation (VC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

I'll take that, too. So first of all, it's actually not all BMS or the EV production that is driving the reduction. There are really three factors. The first driver is actually the overall lower vehicle production outlook for our customers, and I would say that is contributing about half of the reduction.

Then the second driver is lowered EV production again, and that affects both our digital cockpit products as well as BMS.

And the last one is the customer mix in China, which has impacted us all through 2023 and more, I would say specifically in Q4 of 2023. We expect this mix to moderate a little bit, but still continue to be a headwind going forward into 2026.

Now, if you look at just the specific BMS-related revenues, the volume projection for 2026 has not come down significantly from our lower expectations from earlier in 2023. But we are being a little more conservative than the volume that has been shared with us by our customers. I would say that our expectations now are more in line with those vehicle models and their production outlooks, as per S&P Global, for example. So I would say really three factors, right, overall, a reduction in vehicle production. Number two, lowered EV production at our customers. That is digital cockpit [ph] BMS sales and then the customer mix that is affecting us more in China. Having said that, we're expecting all of our product lines still to grow, and this new target that we have means that our base sales would grow for each one of those three years at a low-double-digit level as compared to 2023 sales.

The first thing I would say, Joe is that we have already factored in, like you would expect, that some of the customers with whom we don't have, not customers, but OEMs that we don't have business with especially on EVs are going to grow faster in this time period than our customers as far as EVs are concerned. So our EV vehicle production assumptions are certainly already taking into account this dynamic that you talked about.

Now, obviously, the market overall can grow even faster because we don't control that and we don't have necessarily full exposure to that, but we've been looking more specifically at our customers. Like for us, 2026 is not that far away in terms of being able to understand what vehicles we are on and what those production volumes are likely going to be at. With the year that has passed since last year, beginning of last year, when we gave our 2026 guidance, what I can say is that a year in it has largely transpired the way we would have expected it to, except that the BMS sales has been more suppressed. So the ramp up has been slower in 2023 than we expected. It's almost like a year delayed.

And so we are expecting 2024 to look more like what we thought 2023 would look like in terms of BMS is in other words. Now 2025 and 2026, there is a certain level of ramp up of production that we have in our assumption, and that has to come to pass for us to be able to get to where we have set our targets. But I believe that those are a reasonable assumption in terms of what our customers would and should be able to accomplish.

[indiscernible]

Absolutely, absolutely.

Yes. We can talk a little about it. So, typically, when we look at the targets of sales that need to be booked, we have a range between 75% to 80% of the sales three years out. And I would say that we are within that for 2026. And as you know, we had a pretty good robust level of new business wins in 2023 that exceeded our initial expectations, which is also helping and we also believe, on account of some of the changes that have happened with EVs, that we would see some program extensions which are going to be helpful in the near-term, as some of these ICE and hybrid vehicles will need to be extended by our customers as they rethink their EV model portfolio and go-to-market.

Yes. Thanks, Dan. So we always try to normalize EBITDA margin as we report our earnings, and I've done that now for the last few quarters, just because they are anomalies or exceptional items impacting EBITDA positively or negatively. So for Q4 specifically, we had 11.8%, as you mentioned.

And most of that was or came from the fact that we had a pretty low engineering spend in Q4, and it's fairly traditional, I would say, we were probably a little bit surprised by the amount of recoveries that we were able to book in Q4, but that essentially improved our EBITDA for Q4. So when you take that out and take out as well, some level of negative effect that we had in Q4, our normalized EBITDA is closer to 11%, maybe slightly higher. So that's kind of the run rate with as well a sales level slightly below $1 billion.

So as we go into next year, we've got an 8 basis point improvement. Most of the improvement is going to come from the additional sales that we'll get in 2024. We are growing at a level of 8% at face value and 10% if you exclude the recoveries. So that's a fairly significant improvement that will flow through EBITDA. We are continuing to see a fairly good level of operational efficiencies, and I got to say that we've been seeing that now for the last few quarters.

And then finally, we've got an offset by coming from engineering and as well as G&A, which are, let's say, flattish in terms of percentage, but increasing in dollar terms. And that's kind of the offset or partial offset to our EBITDA going into 2024. I think generally, I would say that we've been running pretty well and ahead of the curve or ahead of our original guidance in 2023. We -- you may remember that we had guided to 10.5% EBITDA the mid-point of our guidance, and we finished the year closer to 11%. So it kind of helps going into next year. And therefore, we feel pretty comfortable with the 10.8% that we put.

Thank you, Jerome. And regarding this topic of content on ICE and perhaps hybrid vehicles, which are expected to grow in the near-term as ICE, sorry, -- as full electric, perhaps slowdown in their growth, we are extremely well-positioned to take advantage of that, right. We have a very good digital cockpit portfolio of products that's already engineered and launched on many of the programs that are going to benefit from the extension or introduction of new models.

And the content increase that we're seeing is not just restricted to EVs by the way. We are seeing a general increase in a cockpit content, even on ICE vehicles. That has been, if you look at the last couple of years, the major driver of our growth over market, right, we have had 18 consecutive quarters of growth over market, driven largely by the content increase that is happening in the cockpit and mostly on ICE/in hybrid vehicles, where with our customers we are extremely well represented.

One data point is our digital clusters growth, right, if you look at 2023, roughly half of our shipments of clusters were all digital, compared to about 30%, 35% for the industry. So there's a lot of runway ahead in terms of growth for digital content in general. And I think to answer your question about how much of that has been very factored into our 2026 guidance, there are a few programs where we know those extensions are happening and we have factored those in. And I would say there is some further potential that we have not accounted for and we will only do so once we have more formal confirmation with the customers about the extensions. So I would say if EVs are slightly depressed, that's a net positive for us because majority of our revenue today is on ICE and on the kind of content that is expected to grow to have these vehicles remain competitive.

Yes. Sure, Luke. And so what I would like to say again is to reiterate our expectations for 2024 from a vehicle production viewpoint, as we have said on Slide 6, we expect discount customers to continue to face some headwind and we will see a negative customer mix also in 2024, but it will moderate as compared to what we saw in 2023 and largely we expect that moderation to occur in China, as I said, still negative, but less so. And as you look at the slide on the right, we have identified the major drivers of growth of our market, of which the number one driver continues to be the high number of new products that we launched in 2023, as well as continuing into 2024. And as they start to ramp up in production, that's the first major driver of our growth of our market.

The non-recurrence of the one timers, that's contributing to about 1% to 2% of growth over market. And then the third one, which is this BMS sales, which I mentioned were sort of delayed in terms of their ramp up all through 2023. Towards the end of 2023, we started to see them grow. We expect that growth to continue into 2024. We have launched on, I would say, about seven vehicles with GM so far already, and more are planned also in 2024.

In addition to that, we are diversifying our BMS business with two additional OEMs with whom we will be having our first launches this year. So BMS is going to be a strong growth driver for us, even though it is lower than our expectations earlier in the beginning of 2023 still a strong growth. And I would say there's 10% to 12% GOM. If you think about 1% to 2% for the non-recurrence of the one timers, the rest is split between the other two factors. There's new model launches and the growth of BMS, although BMS also includes new model launches.

Yes, Luke, absolutely. And if you go back to what I've said earlier, if you think about our product portfolio and with the additions we have made to it, we have continuously expanded the market that is available to us. And so in terms of the digital cockpit product line itself, the pipeline of new business opportunities that we see is pretty robust, similar, I would say, to what we had for 2023, and I would expect us to perform well there as well.

One of the things that we are seeing is that infotainment in particular is going through a lot of changes from a technology viewpoint with Android and connected services and vision services that are all coming together not just at the upper end of the market, but now going more into the mass market vehicles. So very strong pipeline of opportunities there.

Now when it comes to electrification beyond BMS, as we discussed, we have expanded our product line into power electronics, and we hope that we have a repeat this year as well with an extension of the win that we had last year and other customers as well. So I would say that we would feel pretty comfortable saying that we would have a similar year from a new business win performance this year as last year.

Yes, great question. And if you look at the cockpit content, especially digital clusters and infotainment, a lot of our wins are coming now for more mass market vehicles, right? The upper end of the market either has these products already, and if we see opportunities, these are successor follow-on opportunities. But the new opportunities that's growing the market in terms of adding more content is all coming at the mass market segments. The segment B and C vehicles, which you would think in the past, were not typically the targets.

Now what's driving that, number one is the digitalization trend, right? And within that, we talk about larger displays, talk about infotainment content that brings in downloadable apps, more connected services and OTA, and that requires fundamentally more capable electronics. And so that trend we expect to see continue somewhat irrespective of the powertrain. It is -- whether it is a small EV or an ICE or a hybrid, this trend is cutting across the powertrain and will continue to drive our business opportunities as we go-forward.

I think, as we have demonstrated, in fact, with the two wins that we talked about on this call, those are two infotainment wins. Both are for mass market segments. So the good work that Visteon has done is in working with the semiconductor supply base as well as the display supply base to drive the cost of the systems to where it is now very affordable for that segment of the market, okay?

And so we believe as a result of that, we have a good set of software technologies, hardware platforms, the manufacturing integration, the vertical integration that we have done, especially for displays is putting us in a position to offer products at price points that are very competitive and affordable. So we do not see that as a hurdle for the industry taking more of it as we go-forward.

Yes. That's a very good question, Mark. And as you know, in China, there has been what some might call a little bit of a wild list type of an environment, a lot of OEMs fighting it out for market share. And it's going to be very important for us not to be caught in that environment with the ultimately what might prove to be the wrong set of customers. We do not believe that this level of number of OEMs and what's happening there in the market is sustainable in the long run, we expect that to consolidate. So that's one thing.

Now, having said that, there is also a mix shift between domestic and JV OEMs that we have touched upon previously as well. That mix in 2023 was even more pronounced in favor of the domestic OEMs. It's about roughly now 60:40, and not too long ago, it used to be the other way around. So we have been addressing that by growing our business with domestic OEMs and with domestic OEMs that we believe have a longer-term play like Geely and others, we talked about the launch with JMC-Ford. They're very excited about the potential with them, and we have very good content and a set of vehicles that are planned for launch. So we are taking very measured steps to grow our exposure to the domestic OEMs without necessarily, perhaps falling into some of the pitfalls. So far, it has worked out well. In the interim, we will see some mix -- negative mix dynamic, which will improve from what we saw in Q4 will still be negative, but we believe we are in a very good position to navigate those waters and deliver the growth with profitability that we desire.

Yes. As I had mentioned earlier already, we have been growing our sales on EVs with our customers in line with the market. And in 2023, just over 10% of our total sales came from EVs, right? And only a small portion of that low-single-digits was BMS. So we are today well-positioned with respect to the exposure to EVs outside China. As I mentioned, channel is somewhat different in that regard. But outside of China, we are very well-positioned and we expect to grow with the market outside of China as our customers launch new EV models.

Now, added to that, our BMS revenues are going to see a faster acceleration, that's net incremental revenue to us. And in addition to the ramp up of production of models with GM and the new launches that we will see with them this year, I mentioned also that we are launching with two other OEMs this year, which will further diversify and grow our BMS business. So 2026, what we have assumed is largely a similar sort of exposure to EVs outside of BMS that we have with customers in Europe and Americas. And then the BMS growth that will follow on account of the launches, which is one of the faster growing parts of our business.
