Satish Dhanasekaran
Keysight Technologies, Inc. (KEYS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Meta. Absolutely. The EISG business, as we have said, the long-term market growth rates 4% to 6% and our goal is to beat it. And the business, obviously, has been performing significantly above that for a prolonged period of time. And that's really a function of the differentiated positions, we have, almost unique positions in some -- with some customers across these end markets that they serve. And it's also been a focus for us to continue to diversify the company. And with regard to the Commercial comps business, we saw sequential order improvement between Q4 relative to Q3. And again, that's stability in Wireless, continued stability now for a few quarters in Wireless, especially with 5G. And again, that is a function of the R&D holding up much better, and we're still awaiting a recovery in manufacturing. And then we saw some signs of recovery in our wired part of the ecosystem, again, driven by, what appears to be a sustained push to invest in AI ML/data center infrastructure by the cloud/hyperscalers.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Yes. Thank you. I think as we talked about, our Commercial Comms business is diversified with exposure into both Wireless and Wireline parts of the ecosystem. For the Wireline parts of the ecosystem, we're obviously tethered to computing, networking, being the core end markets. And what we're starting to see is some signs to the compute markets are starting to stabilize after a period of inventory digestion that was underway. But equally, there is some incremental spend that's occurring driven by cloud and hyperscalers, who are pretty serious about upgrading that infrastructure. And so that's manifesting itself in manufacturing test for our transceiver test business. It's also manifesting itself in increased spend that we saw this quarter for 800 gig and also terabit Ethernet solutions. And so we're quite pleased with the sequential uptick we've seen. Again, one quarter doesn't make a trend, but I think we're encouraged by the progression that we've seen on the Wireline side.

Thank you.

Yes, maybe at the highest level, I would just say, we got a sequential improvement, I would say, in orders from our Aerospace, Defense business, which was strong. Obviously, the year-end is typically what we expect. We saw that for Commercial Communications, sequential growth, stability in Wireless/5G and a sequential uptick in our Wired part of the ecosystem. And what we anticipated also was, we would see some softness in the EISG business, particularly with Asia and China, and we did experience that. Now again, to put it in context, the EISG business is just later in undergoing this demand normalization. And so that was what we had sort of forecasted, and so it behaved as we expected. With regard to the Wireline Ecosystem, I just go back to our long-term growth rate expectations for the Communications business in general and say that we see a business that is diversified, where multiple technology waves are overlapping. And that gives us inherent stability and resilience, and we're pleased by some of the progression we're seeing in the AI ML spend, because we've been working with customers on this for some time now. And we expect that as more of the network traffic is driven by applications that are coming out for AI ML, this will become a bigger part of our business. I'll just maybe hand it off to Mark to make some comments on orders.

Yes. Thank you, Mark. Absolutely, we are confident in the long-term outlook for the business, I outlined at Investor Day several overlapping themes of technology waves that are playing out across end markets. And our view remains solid with that. In fact, as we engage with customers even through this time, where the spend has been lower, customers are intensely focused on higher priority R&D programs. And so that strategic view has not changed for us. Obviously, there is this current demand normalization that's occurring after fiscal '21 and '22, where we had outsized order growth in the business. And so post normalization, we remain confident in our ability to continue to grow the business, because of these multiple ways of technology across both wired and wireless ecosystem.

Yes. Thank you. I'll have Mark make some comments, but thank you. We're pleased with the execution and the operational performance of the business in fiscal '23. Our engagements in China with customers remain strong, but I'll have Mark make some comments by end market.

Yes. Thank you. I think at the highest level, the things, that I watch for are the continued progression, the smartphone industry is making in inventory reductions, right, that's been talked about for chips and final device form factors. So that's one thing we watch. Obviously, when we think about the 5G standards progression, what we're seeing so far is increased interest from customers in Open RAN, even in our 5G business this year, Mark and team have added new customers to our already strong mix of installed base customers. So our leadership position continues to remain strong and we're continuing to remain differentiated with our portfolio, which is very broad and cares to the need of the entire ecosystem. The area that has also gained a lot of importance, as we went through the last year, has been the non-terrestrial networks so the satellite cases with 5G. And we're also seeing some interesting new use cases associated with Release 17 and the research interest across the globe to build organic IP in what comes beyond 5G has already kicked off and Keysight continues to play an early role in partnering with these customers. So when we look at our investment priorities. Yes, we're investing in R&D, but and we're focused on that -- focusing that investment around these next-generation themes, which will continue to enable us to be strong and grow the business over the long run at the rates that we've put out at the Investor Day.

Yes. Thank you. Sure. I'd say we've always believed that strategically, having both the physical and protocol and having a leadership position across both is an advantage, and we'll see that play out at this point, especially as the challenges migrate between SerDes and the Optical side and the Electrical side and our ability to connect the dots for our customers is an advantage for us, and we're able to monetize the advantage. I would say 400 gig Ethernet still continues to be the predominant investment standard with customers shifting priority to 800 terabit and beyond, from a research perspective or development perspective, and we're able to engage across that entire life cycle. Which has caused the sequential uptick we see. And we also see some of that. I'll have Mark make some comments on the funnel of opportunities as we look ahead. On the Defense side of the business, again, not only in the US but across the globe, the increased spending in technology investments in Aerospace and Defense is a trend that's playing out. In the US, I would say the prime contractors have been referencing growth in backlog and growth in orders. And I think all of that, we've seen a stronger uptick, I should say, in the Aerospace Defense business, in the most recent quarter. But equally, that bodes well for 2024. Obviously, we watch the Defense budget getting passed because that's an important milestone for that business. But I think given the bipartisan support that exists, we can be reasonably confident about the outlook for Aerospace and Defense in fiscal '24. I'll have Mark make some comments.

Thank you, Jason. I want to thank all our shareholders for your support of Keysight. And I want to let you know, we remain incredibly confident in our future, and we're continuing to invest for growth around next-generation technology teams, which have strong customer validation. While doing so, we're also prudent in our spending and maintaining a strong discipline from an operating perspective in factoring in the current environment. And finally, we're also very confident in the free cash flow position of the business, and you've seen us in the most recent quarter, buy back over 100% of our free cash flow in our own shares, given the valuation at this time. Thank you very much and hope you have a good rest of your day.