Scott Behrens
Stepan Company (SCL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mike.

Sure. Yes, so, Mike, over the last 18 to 24 months, we've gone on a heavy investment phase for 1,4 dioxane capability. We did install new assets at both our Winder Georgia facility and two separate production units at our Millsdale facility. All three of those assets are now up and operational with the last asset at Millsdale, which is going through final commissioning and startup this quarter. But volumes have sequentially been ramping up as we brought each of those three independent assets up over the last 12 months or so. In terms of margins, I think it's [indiscernible].

Yes, sure, Mike. Yes, you're absolutely correct, as we've shared on prior calls. With the supply chains disruptions in the second half of 2022, and customers were looking for security of supply, they -- I think, enticed in imports in early in 2023, which caused some of our margin and share issues. But I'm happy to report we are recovering our share in the marketplace, and margins should continue to gradually improve going forward.

Yes, Mike, in terms of your correct, in terms of this has been a focused area of investment over the last couple of years to improve the operational reliability in the winter months. And I can say the site, based on our prior investments over the last two years, fared much better with these power disruptions in the month of January. As I mentioned in my earlier comments, the PA Polyol assets were more impacted than the broader site was, and we have obviously more work and more investment to do to fix the areas within the PA Polyol that were disrupted, but overall, I think we're pretty pleased with the improved resiliency we've been able to do through investments over the last couple of years.

And Mike, I would also just point out the underlying core business outside of those specific initiatives that we just went through, has demonstrated sequential growth in Q4. So distribution, I&I, polymers, that will continue to -- should continue to incrementally grow through the quarters going forward. But really, the second half of the year is when our new assets come online in Pasadena. And as we said, that's when the Ag destocking is supposed to subside.

Yes. So, Vincent, the good news is the macro trend is there. And if you've been reading some of the downstream agricultural companies, the demand in the field remains. So this truly is the destocking activity that we're going through right now. I think, and again, what we've had read and talked to with our customers, the second half is when we should start to see the improved volumes. Now, the rate of that ramp up and the geographical cadence of how that happens, I do think you're right, Brazil could be probably the slowest to recover and work through that destocking, but our Ag business is global in nature. North America, Europe, and Asia are all important for us. So we have good anticipation that we'll start to see those volumes recover in the second half.

No. I think we feel pretty good, Vincent. As Luis mentioned, with that inventory hangover in the first half of last year, we were chewing through high-cost raw materials, which really impacted margins as we competed in the domestic market down there. But all things equal, our customers prefer to buy from local supply. And when raw material valuations are matching where market pricing is, I think we're going to win that game. And I think our Q4, where we reported double-digit volume growth is demonstrating that. But we expect that to continue quite frankly. But yes, margins can always improve. We're not happy or pleased with where the margins are currently at in Q4, but we expect those to continue to improve as we go forward.

Yes, it was really customer concentration and just rolling off some of the COVID types of activity and business that came off in Q4 of 2022.

Yes, Dave, this is Scott. Yes, no, you're spot on. The 130 million is inclusive of us finishing the last final touches on the Pasadena and the 1,4 Dioxane investments, definitely the minority portion of that 130 million. In terms of other discretionary spends, I would call them incremental opportunities where we may be modifying reactor sets to produce or execute on customer-specific opportunities or certain product line extensions. I would not characterize anything in that 130 outside of Pasadena and 1,4 Dioxane as significant discretionary spend. And it's important for us to get these new assets fully up and running and start generating returns against them. So consider the pause in 2024 for any new major incremental capital discretionary projects, and I'll leave it at that.

Yes. I would just say overall capacity in the chemical industry is much looser than it was 12 months ago, 18 months ago, right? There's greater optionality and opportunity to really work on your raw material costs in the current environment.

Yes, so that's obviously a big part of our growth strategy within the surfactant business, is to continue to service and sell more Tier 2 and Tier 3 customers. Even last year in the challenging market we had financially, we grew our net customers within surfactants by over 500 new customers. Those are around the world that truly value our technical service, our formulation expertise, and our broad product line. And that continues in a difficult challenging market. So we're very excited that our sales and R&D teams continue to do a great job bringing new customers into the company.

Thank you very much for joining us on today's call. We appreciate your interest and ownership Stepan Company, and please have a great day.