Scott Nuttall
KKR & Co. Inc. (KKR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. The only thing I would add, Craig, is I think our overall view on fundraising is quite optimistic. I mean, Craig Larson mentioned it, but the $150 billion we raised for 4% of that have come from flagships is a pretty low number speaks to how we've been scaling the diversification of the firm. And as you know, a number of our strategies are kind of in this nice part of the inflection curve Funds II, III, IV, where we can see a significant amount of growth. So you're absolutely right to point out the flagships are coming back at what we think is going to be a really good time. But we also have 22 of our 30 strategies that are coming to market in the next 12 to 18 months, we put in that younger category. Fund I, II, III, open-ended these newer strategies. And you can see it. Asia-Infra, up 66%, tech growth was up 30%. Our impact fund doubled even in the environment that we saw over the last couple of years. Yet, on top of that, private wealth, GA, Asia speaks to the optimism that we see kind of regardless of what's happening with the backdrop.

Yes. The only thing I would add, Fin, is that you're right to ask about the KCM opportunity. As a reminder, when we spoke at the end of November, we talked about all the different positive opportunities we had to unlock more value with GA, including across the rest of the firm from an investing standpoint, creating new product, private wealth distribution, Ivy, which is our third-party fund strategy, and then global in particular, Asia. And as part of that list, we did talk about the capital markets opportunity and we do think that, that can be quite meaningful for us.

So think of it as, in effect using the model we've already built with KCM, but more across this ABF platform. We really haven't gotten to that yet. And when we had 37% ownership from third parties, it was a little bit more challenged to get after that. We think over time, that could be a significant opportunity, call it, in the hundreds of millions of dollars if we can get that right. It's going to take time. We'll keep you posted on it, but we do think that is the next big legged growth across all things structured finance, structured credit, asset-based finance for KCM.

Steven, it's Scott. To your question about read across. I don't think it's a stretch to say that it does inform our broader perspective. Much of the funds that you mentioned were raised at a period of time where the capital markets were nearly as robust. And what we've seen is that investors are re-upping the funds where they've seen strong performance. Also, the color from the dialogue we're having is, I think, even more mature programs out there understand these are going to be very good vintage years and don't want to miss out.

I think in the past, if you go back to the financial crisis, there are some institutions that pulled back and then had regret. And so I think there's an understanding of that in the market. And that's on the more mature programs, which I would say the minority of the people that we talk to. If you think about how the industry has expanded across sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, family offices, obviously, we talked about the private wealth channel, we're optimistic. Some part are based on those discussions and in large part based on the great work our team has been doing in terms of keeping the investment performance very strong.

Brian, it's Scott. Look, I think we'll go deeper on this in April when we're together. But the way we think about it, if you look back 5 years, it's really not very representative of what KCM is today and where it's going to be, to your point. So we've been globalizing the business across more of what KKR is doing around the world. We've been penetrating more of our own strategies and efforts.

So for example, if you go back several years, infrastructure wasn't a very big part of the Capital Markets business, now it's a very large part of that business. And that informs our perspective on the ABF opportunity, candidly, the real estate opportunity over time.

And then on top of that, our portfolio is larger. So there's more refinancing. There's more exits to do in the public markets. And as our deployment goes up in our experience and our dry powder goes up, so do our capital markets opportunities. Because we can speak for larger transactions, we need to bring partners alongside, there's just more for us to do. So all of that speaks to the growth opportunity, which is why I think you're seeing this baseline, even in a pretty anemic capital market overall, continue to increase. And I think you'll continue to see that into the future as we execute on all of those.

Hey, Mike. It's Scott. Just I think in terms of your question about performance in the quarter, it was broad-based. There's nothing that we use to specifically. The portfolio has been assembled incredibly thoughtfully, as Craig mentioned, and is performing very nicely. And as expected, ahead of expectations.

In terms of your question about investor demand where it's shifting from, I mean, for the most part, we've seen people creating allocation to infrastructure over the last several years. It hasn't really been a shift out of other parts of alternatives to some extent, where we've seen alternative allocations to increase, it's to be able to accommodate an infrastructure allocation.

And I think a lot of that is investors have focused on the fact you've got a real asset that is mission critical, has an attractive yield. And the way we do it is to have to have that contractual yield and it is inflation protected, so it's also viewed as an inflation hedge. And I think as people have done the work on the space, you've started to see more and more dollars flow into it. So largely speaking, and none of these comments are universal, but largely speaking, it's been an and as opposed to an or.

And I think on Asia, Craig hit it. I mean our Asia Infra business has gone from a standing start to $10 billion of AUM in 4 years. We have a great team on the ground. They're leveraging our Pan-Asia presence across our 9 offices. And as you know, we run the firm as one firm, so everybody helps each other. I think that's really allowed us to scale very rapidly in that market. There's a significant amount of capital required to develop infrastructure all across Asia in those themes that Craig just walked you through. And candidly, on the margin, there's less competition in Asia, because fewer firms have built the platform that we've built. So I think large opportunity, fewer competitors, firm well integrated.