Scott Baxter
Kontoor Brands, Inc. (KTB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, Bob, I’ll make just a couple of comments before I hand it over to Tom and Chris. But, I’m coming up on 20 years of leading or being involved in the denim business here. And I will tell you this, I’ve seen this before 5 or 6 times. And, I think, I wanted to speak about how I see this before and how I see this now, and it really is different. It’s a much different picture previous, when we weren’t investing in these brands a decade ago and even just prior to the spin. We were in a much different place when our retailers behaved and acted like this and totally understand that, but we weren’t investing in the brands. They weren’t growing. We weren’t putting any energy behind them. But we are in a totally different space right now as we go through this, and Joe hit on it, and the other guys will hit on a little bit. But we are taking significant share in a category, that’s growing a little bit.

But we just continue over a long period of time to put a lot of energy behind our 2 big brands. Our collaborations are working, our advertising programs are working, our digital programs are working, the consumer is really excited about our brands, most importantly, our product looks great. And because of that we will come out of this in a much different place than the previous times this has happened, because we are really important to our customer in that respect. Our product turns in the marketplace, our product turns on the floor and they need our product and this will work its way through the cycle that it usually does. But going through this in a position of strength taking share and having strong POS is a much different feeling that it’s been years ago.

Sure. Jim, this is Scott. And then, I’ll go ahead and kick it over to Joe, but I’ll kick it off. We said it before, we’re really in an enviable position. We can do multiple things at the same time, you’ve seen us do that. We raised our dividend. We’re buying back stock. We put in a new stock buyback program of $300 million. We’re in a great place from a debt ratio standpoint. And if we want to make an acquisition, we can. I want to make sure that everyone’s aware that from a M&A standpoint, we will not surprise you, right? So our fundamental position is that we’re going to do something that makes a lot of sense from us from a financial standpoint, from a brand standpoint, and from a culture standpoint. We kind of look at it from those three lenses.

And we also are very keenly aware if we want to pay the right price for the right type of acquisition. So if that happens to come along, we’ll make sure we go ahead and do that. And it’ll be accretive to all of us and all of our stakeholders. But right now, we feel like we’re in a really good position. A lot of folks are in a little different position than we are, but we have improving fundamentals going into the second half, already from a really strong foundation currently. So I feel really good about what we’re doing, and we’re being really smart, Jim.

And Project Jeanius is only going to help this in a significant way. In my career, I’ve been involved in a lot of really big, really strategic projects, some cost-cutting projects. But I’ve got more energy around this project to differentiate us from everyone else in our sector in a very significant way going forward. This is the real deal, and I’m really excited about it for the organization. Joe, anything like to add?

I’ll just add one thing, Brooke, we’ve got really good innovation in our pipeline right now from both brands across the globe. And that’ll give us some pricing power going forward, which I’m really, really excited for this group to get a chance to see here over the next 12 to 18 months.

Just a quick thank you to everyone for participating on the call today. We’ll look forward to reaching out and speaking with you again here upcoming after the first quarter. Have a great day and a great week. Thanks again, everyone. Take care.
