Scott Lauber
WEC Energy Group, Inc. (WEC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, absolutely. And then when you think about the S&P program, unfortunately, about 1000 workers stopped doing work at the end of the year here. So depending on how long it takes, it may take a while to ramp it up efficiently too. So we'd really evaluate that as we get through these hearings or rehearings.

No, I agree. It just, it'll be good to get the facts on the table and everyone be able to talk about the issues and work through it. So we have a lot of good information and willing to provide it.

Yes. Very balanced. And having that experience in the commission and be able to fill one of the spots very quickly is good to see.

That's exactly right, Gale. So when these PPAs, lying down at the end, 10, 15 years, we'll have the ability, then perhaps the either repower them, find another off taker, or especially in the MISO footprint, move them into the regulated utility here as we continue to decarbonize. So I think there's a lot of opportunities here. And when we look at these projects, we also look at getting all the cash back within10 years, and for sure, in the time of the PPA. So we're really looking at it is good cash flow, but also opportunities here in the regulated long-term.

It's about $0.02.

So we're currently pulling all those numbers together. As you can tell, we've been working on filling in the hole from the Illinois capitol, but we're currently working on those numbers, you know, we got these asset additions that we're putting in this year. And of course, there'll be some inflation as we look at O&M. So we don't have a final number yet. But we should know by the end of the first quarter here when we file something. But everything seems reasonable if you're pulling stuff together.

Right. So it assumes that we will still be doing emergency work and work for the city, and some of those real reliability needs. But for assuming the status, until they get through the system, they'll have a safety modernization program and review that neighborhood program. We don't have any of that in there.

Late at the end of next year, the same time this year, it's going to take a while to get through, which is the only one to be thorough, so that's good.

No, nothing additional. I agree with you. We'll probably go through that process.

Yes. We expect that in June. And then the remaining as you look at the neighborhood programs, and we think it'll take about a year to go through the docket. That then would have to be looked at in a forward-looking test yard imagine as we put rates together. So it'd be really two steps here.

No. When you're looking at it, what do you think about the decarbonization, it's more than that, because a lot of these power plants that are retiring, it's either invest hundreds of millions of dollars there, or in a carbon free resource and doesn't cost anything for the fuel. So there's also cost savings there to long term with the production tax credit. So, we do have a lot of opportunities here.
