Scott Rowe
Flowserve Corporation (FLS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hello, Nathan.

Sure. Yes. It’s a really good question, Nathan. Let me start with aftermarket and then I’ll go to kind of traditional end markets, and I’ll touch on projects as well. On the aftermarket side, we saw tremendous growth in 2023. We delivered about 5% for the full Flowserve and we expect that to continue. And so when we look at utilization rates and we look at kind of what’s happening with the customer installations, we see that, that aftermarket work will continue as we go forward.

And then secondly, we believe there’s an ability to drive our capture rate up. We’re – we don’t disclose what that rate is. But what I’ll say is we know we have opportunities to do better there. And in the Analyst Day, we outlined some of those opportunities, both on the pump side and the valve side. And so we believe we’ve got kind of market share or capture rate opportunities on top of what we’ll say is a very constructive environment for our aftermarket business. So we see something similar to 2023 in terms of growing that side of the business. And then like the Analyst Day or within the Analyst Day, we talked about our traditional end markets, and we showed kind of some like more GDP-type results at this 3% to 5% growth for those end markets. And again, when we look at our model, nothing has changed there. And so we see reasonably good growth on the traditional end markets across the board. And then where we see really exciting growth is in the new energy and the decarbonization side. And so that’s where we see that outsized growth above that kind of 3% to 5%.

And we had a really good year in 2023 across all aspects of our business in terms of bookings growth with the exception of large projects. And so when we look at our project funnel, what we see is the project funnel overall is up 13%. Our oil and gas funnel is up 25%, and that decarbonization of new energy is up 25%. And so that gives us a lot of confidence on our project outlook and making sure that we can acquire and win awards that makes sense on our margins and value creation. And so I’d say, overall, we feel really good about where we are in terms of the overall market and the outlook. And I think we can – at this point, we believe that we can deliver certainly above 1.0 on our book-to-bill and drive to that 5% growth target that we put out in the Analyst Day.

Yes. The project market in oil and gas has stacked up pretty substantially. It’s primarily delivered – or primarily in the Middle East. And I was there 3 weeks ago – and quite frankly, I was overwhelmed with the amount of work that’s out there and the spending that’s happening. Now obviously, things could change that – but I would say with Saudi’s 2030 vision with what we see in the rest of the region across countries like the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, the activity is substantial. And so to your question directly, there’s a long list of large projects out there. If we get two or three of those, that would be gravy to compare to what we’re talking about, but I would say there are a couple of those projects that are kind of more moderate size that are embedded in our growth projections.

But again, we feel good about it. We’ve been very selective, specifically in 2023 in terms of what we want to win. We’ve been very disciplined in that approach. And I feel really good that we’re going to start to win some work, but when work that makes sense from a margin perspective and value creation perspective.

Good morning.

Sure. If we compare it to – let’s go to 2 years ago when folks were very, very hungry for work. The environment is substantially better than that. But what I’ll say is the project environment is always attractive. Everybody wants to bid and participate in it. And so it remains somewhat challenging. And so through our selected bidding approach, what we’re looking at is customers we know we can work with, customers where we know that we can deliver the margin expectations that we signed up for in the bidding phase. And then we’re also looking for making sure that we can get the aftermarket associated with the work there. And so I think that’s probably the biggest change for us is really getting a more holistic look at what we wanted to work or what we want to work on geographically, but then also with the customers in supporting that aftermarket.

And then when we think about the competitive landscape, everybody is substantially fuller in terms of capacity than what we saw 2 years ago. We are seeing discipline improve pretty substantially, but every now and then, we’ll get a surprise by somebody that doesn’t kind of stay in that disciplined approach. And we’ll just accept that and move on and make sure that we can win work that’s more suitable to the margin expectations that we deserve.

Thank you.

Hey Joe. Good morning.

Yes. I would say our LNG work is more outside of the U.S. than in the U.S. And so we have got substantial bookings and opportunities in the Middle East. We have got some work on the books for Latin America, Africa. We have got a round two in Canada that we expect. And so I think we still feel good about the outlook of LNG. I won’t get into the politics of this, but we think natural gas is an incredible transition source of energy, and we believe it’s going to be a part of the mix for a long time to come. I think the U.S. exporting permit hold will potentially have an impact on our kind of 2025 business, but 2024 work in the U.S. has already been funded and already been approved. And so it won’t have an impact on what we see in 2024. And we will continue to migrate more of our products and services into cryogenic applications to support LNG because we are big believers in this over the next 10 years to 15 years.

Yes. I will answer that one first because it’s easy. The 3D and certainly, the energy transition margin expectations are basically in line with the rest of the portfolio. And then back to cryogenic applications, I would say the bow portfolio is more rounded out than the pumps at this point. And so we have got control valves. We have isolation valves that can all do cryogenic, both LNG and hydrogen. There are opportunities, though, to grow that pretty substantially. And what we liked about Velan is they were better positioned with some of their technology and products than we were. And so continued M&A work on expanding that cryogenic portfolio in valves will continue to happen in 2024 and beyond. And then on the pumps side, we have got kind of two things. The acquisition that we did with Chart was really around hydrogen distribution, but we can take that technology and know-how and imply it into LNG and cryogenic applications. And so we are in the very late stages of developing a full cryogenic pump offering. And that, what we really like about that is it can be used for liquefaction transportation and into the re-gas application. And so by the – certainly, by kind of mid-year, late year, we will have a full kind of cryogenic pumping solution that will serve – that can be potentially used in – what we used in LNG but potentially used in hydrogen as well.

Good morning Deane.

Yes. So, in Q4, we had visibility to, let’s call it, two or three awards, more on the pump side than the valve side, that did get delayed. And some of that was delayed into Q1 and some of it is going to be delayed probably the back half of the year. And as you know, you followed our business a long time. There is lots of reasons for delays. Project timing is incredibly hard to predict. But what I would say is those opportunities did not get canceled. They didn’t get turned off. They might be slightly smaller, a little bit different than what we anticipated, but we are confident that they go forward in 2024. We are also confident given the selectivity that those will deliver the margins that we deserve as we go forward. And then I would just say on the selectivity side and turning things off, I think that was a trend predominantly throughout the whole year. There wasn’t something major that we kind of missed out on in Q4. It’s more about just putting the right resources upfront and doing the work that’s required to prepare for these large tenders. And so when something comes out, it’s we are pulling the entire team. There is usually anywhere from 10 to 30 people that are working on these. And we have just been really selective at the front end and directing our resources to things that we think make more sense economically and can support that customer through the life cycle of their asset. So, I would say the Q4 was probably more a little bit of slip out than being selective, but again, we feel really good about what we are seeing in 2024 on the projects.

It is a delicate balancing act Deane. And I will just say, between Amy and myself and Lamar Duhon, leads our Pumps division, that’s probably the single biggest topic that we have with him and his team. And it’s not easy because we do know when you get the installed base, it’s pulling our seal business through, it’s pulling parts through, it’s pulling service through. And so we are actively pursuing installed base. At the same time, we are now modeling that out and looking at it on a returns basis. And so we can more accurately predict, like is that customer going to give us the aftermarket, or do they go out and bid some of that aftermarket. And so we can kind of model in what that probability of success looks like on the aftermarket and make much better decisions about where we will populate the installed base and where we won’t. And so I would say we have improved dramatically in the last year about what we should pursue and where we shouldn’t, but continuing to have a robust installed base and continuing to drive aftermarket support is important. And then the other thing I would say is we are also now with our aftermarket franchise and some of our business processes there that continue to improve on speed in winning, we are starting to win aftermarket work for third-party equipment. And so that’s something we steered away from probably 4 years or 5 years ago. We are not openly going out and targeting our competitive aftermarket. But with our presence there, with our ability to drive speed and serve our customers in a timely manner, we are starting to see more and more work on stuff that’s not necessarily our original equipment.

Yes. And I would just add overall on margins. We had communicated earlier in the year that we were striving to get to 30% gross margins for the portfolio. We did that a little bit earlier than we expected. And so we feel really good about that margin trajection as we go forward. And as Amy said, it’s going to come more on the pumps side in 2024 than on the FCD side, but we still see nice progression forward and very much on the trajectory alignment towards our 2027 goals.
