Scott Wells
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (CCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, Cameron, I'll take that one. So I think there's a number of things going on with airports. I mean, obviously, we secured the New York, New Jersey Port Authority during COVID. So in the early part of 2020, we were negotiating that, we started operating it in 2021. And we completed build outs that we're lapping, we're in the process of lapping in the number of the airports, most notably Terminal A came online at the beginning of 2023, Terminal A in New your came online at the beginning of 2023. And so, Q4 would have been the first lap of that important new inventory.

And so, I think there is that contract effect. The growth in our overall portfolio, we have the kind of extraordinary growth that we're lapping because of the build outs in New York, but the overall portfolio has performed very strongly as well. And that definitely correlates with the strong air travel. And I think it also correlates with the market trend toward really high quality, really well defined audience delivery. And we've seen that in the America business at the super premium end of that spectrum.

So, there's a lot of factors going into it. I guess the last thing I'd give a call out, it's not just the large advertisers, the local teams have been doing really well and the local teams in conjunction with our roadside local teams as well. We cracked the code on cross selling between those businesses a couple of years ago and that's only accelerated and we're starting to do some pretty innovative things in terms of thinking about almost a sponsorship type of model in different geographies, particularly where we have roadside and airport inventory. That's pretty interesting. So we're doing some pretty innovative things in terms of how we're selling as well. I think those are all the factors.

Okay, Steve. I'm going to try to get all of these, but I'm sure you kept the list in case we miss any of them. On the one off, I do think [Technical Difficulty] clean year in America. We have lapped that site lease increase. I'm going to let Dave speak to where we are relative to one time abatements, but those largely washed out in the case of 2023. There may be a couple of things still lurking out there, but nothing that large.

Dave, do you want to talk for just a second about the operating leverage?

Thanks, Dave. And then the second question was around cost optimization. And I do think the principal cost optimization you'll see over the next 12 or 18 months with us, probably more toward the latter part of that window, because it'll take time as you unwind. But it's going to be related to corporate overhead, related to the divestitures we're talking about. And we've discussed before at least $30 million of savings. There's nothing we've seen that causes us to think not a good sort of zip code to speak to on that.

And then in terms of the guide on Europe North and LatAm, because of everything that's in flight, I don't think those are numbers we're to give at this point. But if you look at the scale of what those businesses did, I mean, you've got a nice fresh 12 months in the K and you presume that their growth is -- Europe is going to actually revert a little bit, I think relative to what we saw in 2023. LatAm, the 2023 growth maybe a little closer to what we see, but those are not things, it just -- with the experience of moving things to disc ops and everything like that, the guides become so complicated when you start getting down into the sub segments, we just didn't think that that was appropriate. At some point in the not too distant future, it'll be a much simpler business to talk about.

So, I don't know Dave or Brian, if you have anything you'd add on the Europe North or LatAm.

Thanks, Steve.

Thanks, Jonathan. Yes, if you've listened to a number of calls, you know I always bristle a little at national, because it really correlates more to the channel that it's coming through the large advertisers than that it's truly national the way, the syndicated business in radio or television works. But for that large advertiser segment, we definitely saw some improvement toward the beginning of Q4 and it correlated with the advertisers that were using the programmatic toolset, the large advertisers using the programmatic toolset is where we really saw that first. And we have seen that continue into this year, but it's really not, national is kind of a poor description of it. It's really not. I think one of our partners describes national as airports plus New York and LA, which -- that doesn't really do national the way that I think other segments think of it. But the stuff that we call national is performing better than it was and seems like it's on a good trend line.

Yeah, I'm not a 100% sure how to think about the idea of a catch up, because this is -- our numbers are comprised of 100 of campaigns. And I don't think most marketers wake up focused on, okay, I got to catch up the outdoor guys. I think what you ought to think about is, last year was a very choppy year. We had a really tough January and February. March and April were better, May June a little less good. Q3 was pretty tough throughout. And then as you got into September, it started to get better and Q4 was a pretty strong quarter.

So as you think about how the business, it just was very choppy last year and I'm hoping that we don't have the same, especially not the kind of, hey, we're going to check out from June to Labor Day dynamic that a lot of those large advertisers had. But it's not for me to say precisely what they're going to do. When we think about our guide, we don't really build it at the advertiser level. We build it a lot more looking at the market, looking at the inventory position, looking at the inventory position, looking at what we're seeing in the local as well as the national, what's happening with our principal client investment in terms of key accounts. There's a whole lot of things that go into it. We don't really just build it off of a national court forecast, local forecast.

I don't know Dave if there's more color you'd want to provide on how we get to that guide.

I think all we've said is that, those payments will be made before the end of 2024. I think we probably haven't expanded upon that.

Anything else. Thanks, Jon.

Thanks, Aaron. I don't think that -- I mean, look, our Board is -- this is a challenging Board and having a good mix of perspectives on the Board is incredibly valuable. And I think that's how to read what maneuvering we have done. This is a business where because of our capital structure and because of where we live in the spectrum of media, you need to be able to think fast and slow and you need to have a long term plan coupled with a lot of agility to be able to go and do things like what we're doing with the refinancing that we're working on right now. Touch wood, we'll see as that process works out.

And so, it's important to have fresh perspective on the Board and it's important to have people who understand the world in which you're operating. And I think that's the sum total of what we're doing with the Board.

Thanks, Richard. The piece parts are all pretty intertwined. I mean, when you think about the first quarter that we had last year, the challenge was actually less in America than it was in airports, particularly the early part of the quarter. But no part of the business had a great start to last year. And so, coming out of the gate strong is very, very helpful. Programmatic is definitely strong, but interestingly last first quarter programmatic was actually quite strong as well. So it's not just that. I do think that some of the development work we've done on some of our emerging verticals. We have a couple of scale, new clients that we brought in directly that are coming online in Q1. So there's a number of things contributing to it.

And just frankly getting past where we first started seeing trouble in Northern California in the latter part of 2022, really manifesting in the beginning of 2023. So we're lapping that and our numbers are not so large that that doesn't have an effect on it. So I think it's kind of all of the above. I wish it was a simple thing and I'd go do a lot more of that simple thing, but it's the combination of a number of factors.

It is principally in America, right now where we're seeing the strength of it. I think it could translate into airports. But the real sweet spot of what we're doing in pharma are for drugs that have a very broad application. And that lends itself to the roadside asset even more so than airports where you get more of a segmented audience that's being delivered. So I think that's the -- it is definitely more skewed toward the roadside business.

Thanks, Jim. It's a good question and there's a couple of things that go into it. First of all, I do believe that the rebound is still more skewed to personal than business, but you have seen international travel, including international travel Asia start to perk up, which oftentimes, I mean, I think one of the big trends, I've certainly seen a number of articles about this is people bundling business trips with personal trips, bringing family members along when they're going on an extended commercial trip and then tacking on a vacation. I think some of those dynamics are playing out, but we definitely have seen business travel rebound. It's probably not all the way back to where it was before pandemic, but I'm not sure how well we've ever really had -- how good the metrics are that are around that.

In terms of how that translates, with the buy, it depends a lot on the customer -- on the client then you're talking about the advertiser you're talking about, because we have B2B oriented advertisers that target particular airports, particular terminals within airports or they go after the private jet FBOs and we have B2C products. And the thing about the B2B, oftentimes they kind of get to double dip, because they might be very focused on paying for that business traveler, which is a subset. Many of the people who travel for personal things are also business decision makers. And so you get both. So it is not a simple pricing discussion. It usually has a lot to do with the scale that you're going for, how many airports you're going for, how deep within those airports you want to get. There's a lot of factors that go into it beyond just the passenger counts and just the mix of personal versus business. But those trends are definitely helping support the great performance we're seeing in airports. I hope that answers your question at least a little bit.

Yes. Dave, you want to take the CapEx? Well, you can talk about the bid too. You've got visibility to that.

Yes, Jim, that's a -- it's a good question. I think as you think about, I don't think there's like a post COVID snapback, sort of scenario that you're going to see, that's going to cause our numbers to just take off. I think if that were to happen, that would be because of success we're having in some of the verticals that we're working or because the advertisers evolve their behavior, which can and does happen. I don't think it's necessarily just on the back of a regional snapback. But I do think just like throughout 2023, some regional challenges were headwinds for us. They could very easily become tailwinds for us if the commercial environment in those markets gets better. And if some of the underlying challenges get addressed, which I actually think they are particularly in Northern California. I think that you are seeing some political will being exerted and in some behavior to try to drive some change in some of the dynamics that have dragged those markets down. And being a longtime bull on California, I would not bet against our friends rebounding those markets. So -- but I don't think it's going to cause us to suddenly double our guides or anything like that. It's just not that, it's part of a much bigger portfolio.

Thanks, Kevin. I appreciate it. Just on Jim's last point, the thing that I would just point to, we are a company that have our challenges on our balance sheet and we have our challenges where site lease goes up or things like that from time to time. But we are a company that is driven to excel and that does things right. And I view this transition from Brian to David as just a great leading indicator for everyone of our ability to manage multiple complex things at the same time. These two guys have done just a phenomenal job of collaborating and making the transition for the team go really, really well.

And I want to call that to our investors attention, because it is important that our financial operations are seamless. We wouldn't be able to be going to market like we are right now if we had a choppy crazy transition going on. The fact that we were able to do this smoothly and still be in the marketplace and still be operating is a testament to the culture and the behavior of the company. So just thought it was important to call that out. And I thank you all for your interest and look forward to updating you as we have more information as 2024 builds.
