Scott Sutton
Olin Corporation (OLN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Arun. Happy to do that. I mean, we're really forecasting some profit growth, right. And if you just walk through the three businesses, and I'll just start with Winchester. I mean, we are right in the middle of doubling our military business and that is on-track both domestically and internationally.

In the commercial side of that business, demand stays rather high. And on top of that, we have the White Flyer acquisition for a full year. And on top of that, there's going to be a shortage of propellant across the industry this year and Winchester is well-positioned to take advantage of that. So, we feel really good about the profit growth in Winchester.

Look, in Epoxy, it's much more a self-help story. We're not necessarily anticipating demand growth, but clearly the restructuring work that we did is applicable for a whole year. Our focus on systems is working. We don't have to clean up inventory as much as we did in 2023. And we're going to work on the illegal flow of products coming from Asia as well.

So, then Arun, you really get to the biggest business CAPV, which I'll just remind you has super fundamentals as you look out in the future. But it's all about turning around the value of the ECU. And that's the initiative we're running now. We have a Slide number 4 that gives some indications that we're having some success. I would say even on top of that, there's less volume entering global trade flows today. Some customers are restarting assets that have been down. So, even in that business, we expect Q1 to be larger than Q4, and we expect Q2 to be better than Q1 as well.

Look, Arun, I mean, I really don't have an update on that. And I'm really sorry for that, because look, our shareholders and our Olin women and men, who have really built this value for those shareholders, they deserve a lot better than that from me. But I'm out of the process. That process is 100% run buy our independent board members only. What I can say is to the best of my knowledge, I'm not aware of any offer being extended out there yet to any candidate.

Look, we think that's about the right time to make sure that this gets substantially turned around. I mean, already and again, I'm kind of referring back to the Slide number 4 right? We've seen the indicators of success. Certainly, in our business, we are having caustic price increases effective January 1st and even a bit before that already EDC export pricing has lift it significantly, but for the -- some of the public trade indices, that's still just projection, though it's their projection, on our projection now, but we do need to make sure that materializes.

So look, I mean, this as a real game of momentum and third derivatives and second derivatives. And we're just going to make sure that we deliver a bit more behind that momentum and that's why we're extending it a bit into the first quarter.

Yes. I mean, sure. I mean, hopefully, you'll give us a little bit on Winchester, and the fact that you broke over repeat Epoxy being a zero. So, I get your question for sure. I would also think a little bit about some of the math even behind this. We took our operating rate down to roughly 50% from around 60% in the fourth quarter and that was $100 million penalty.

So, you might been imagine that as those rates very slowly creep up to match customers coming back online that's sort of an equation for where you might be, $100 million penalty for one quarter to change the rates from 50% to 60%. If everyone's paying attention, they'll understand the math behind our operating leverage exactly. And it doesn't take very much there to add $100 million or a couple of $100 million or even $1 billion as things get better maybe in 2025.

Yes. Hey, Aleksey. Yes, I mean, look, I would say it's some of all of that. In fact, even though we put January 1st, some of that success happened early, earlier than that. And while it's across a number of customers, I mean, please understand that we still have a lot of work to do there. And caustic is a business that is still heavily tied to a trade index. And that trade index in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter showed a decline.

So, our pricing in the first quarter is going to change by the difference between those prior two quarters. So, we still have to get by that hurdle, and that's why in the last quarterly earnings call, we said you're really going to see this start to materialize in a bigger way in our second quarter results.

Yes. Well, I mean the chlorine, and chlorine derivative sides are still the weaker side of the ECU. But what I will say is that, Olin's average chlorine pricing in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter absolutely goes up. Some of that is because we've been able to renegotiate pricing in some contracts that expired at the end of the year, some of that is because, we ran this value accelerator initiative, and the only way to pull out of the market was actually to pull out of some of our higher price business because it was more spot in nature, but at least on our base business that continues without a contract change, that pricing doesn't go down either. Nothing is getting worse in terms of chlorine pricing.

I mean, look, I do think it's extended it some right? But of course, with the change in our relationship with Dow at Freeport in 2025. We get a lot of excess capability coming back in our hands and we'll have to decide what to do there and everyone already knows that that's quite accretive for us for sure no matter what we do. So that comes available. I would say in addition to that. We have a tremendous amount of VCM that's going through a pipeline to one customer and all of that ends in 2030 as well. So we're getting close to being able to match up with a different PVC operator.

So instead of spending $6 billion on a completely integrated world scale facility, someone has the ability to spend 20% of that to get in business in a world scale PVC plant. So I think the timing is okay. We wish it was a bit faster. But you're right, I mean the situation in the world right now has just slowed down some of those activities.

No, I'm not.

Yes. I mean, Chris, look, it's a really good observation. I mean, I would just keep two things in mind. I mean, number one, we're continuing to run that initiative for up to two-thirds of the first quarter. But also on top of that, it goes back to that caustic pricing phenomena that I talked about whereby the first quarter pricing that we print is determined by the difference between the fourth quarter and the third quarter, and that's already known to be a drop. So, we have to overcome that as well.

Exactly.

Yes. Hey, Frank. Yes, I mean, you're right. I mean it’s -- I think it's very interesting that for 25% of our volumes were out there selling, we were buying those from third parties. And it might just tell you about the strength of Olin that we can do that. We can go run our assets at 50% utilization. We can take care of all those items and still have positive levered free cash flow even in the fourth quarter. So, I mean, thanks for the observation on that or the hints of the observation.

I mean, I would say that, look, we're still doing a lot of that, because we're still running that initiative. I do think through the year, as we very slowly and incrementally may lift rates a little bit, you might see that percentage decline back some. We're unlikely to be at a 25% purchase of all of our volumes from other parties over a long period of time, it will probably settle at something lower than that.

Yes. Well, I mean look in Winchester there's a demand increase in military just sort of put that one to bed. We haven't planned on any demand increase in Epoxy, right. That's a self-help type of work. Even in Chlor Alkali, very limited demand recovery. But I will just say that sentiment is a little bit better here at the start of the year, customers are restarting.

Two of our larger customers that have large off-takes have been down for many weeks and in fact they are restarting. There is some light confidence, I'd say in homebuilders where at least maybe that doesn't go the wrong way. So there's just not a lot of strength in demand built in our outlook, Frank.

Look, I mean, we've announced price increase and we're getting some price increase. And in fact, if you really looked at what's happened over the last few months has been more of a wash tub bottom. It really hasn't declined further. In fact, even the trade publications now are saying that this is a bottom. Believe me, we absolutely say that this is a bottom. And the disruptions for trade routes that is starting to have an impact, particularly in Europe.

So there's a lot of momentum for the start of lifting prices again through Epoxy. It's going to be slow though. I think, what you'll end up seeing us do is sort of take that wash tub and profit up a little bit. I wouldn't expect something really, really fast there, but we're going to change the slope of that curve.

Well, I mean, particularly the export PVC pricing is not good and you've seen EDC lift, but there's still a substantial gap left even when PVC is this low. And that's one of the focuses we've had and one of the initiatives we've had is to try to close that gap. And we were never really successful at closing that gap. So there's still room there to move it some more relative to PVC.

No, thanks a lot. It's really not me though. It's this team and this employee group.

Yes, I mean, look, I probably won't give a forecast of the EBITDA contribution. But I mean, clearly that does appear indirectly in our financials and it wasn't a positive contributor in 2023, which was actually the expectation, right. It's sort of the first year. There's a lot of purposes for Blue Water, we don't intend for it to be a wild direct contributor of profit. But the value to time one and the value in the overall product levels of Olin is there. I mean part of our parlay work that we're doing now and we just had that discussion being 25% of our business it is associated with Blue Water. So, it will likely improve this year, but it's not going to be a major direct contributor relative to the size of the rest of our business.

Well, I guess it depends on what you call mid-cycle in that business. But I'll just say it's a multiyear path and maybe leave it at that.

The military side of that business now has become about as big in rough terms as the commercial side of that business. In fact, in the third quarter of 2023, it was actually bigger than the commercial business for the first time in history. So, I think a good way to think of it is, it's sort of half and half from a sales perspective. It's not quite as profitable as the commercial business, but that's roughly the sizing of it. Yes. What was the second part of the question?

Yes. I mean that kind of uncertainty along with other things that are out there in the marketplace. So I mentioned this challenge on propellant supply to the whole industry. Those two things coming together are likely to cause a run on ammunition.

Yes. I think the way to interpret that is that when we pull back from the market some just because we're running our initiative, we're not going to participate in a poor quality market. After we did that, that caused some customers, some not even the same customers that we may have pulled back from to come ask for more volume. Again, it's just an indication that we can have an impact by taking that kind of action. And it's an indication that we had the opportunity to turn back on some of these assets though at a very, very incremental amount only and do some additional business.

Yes. Well, I don't know that we need to get back to the levels that you spoke of. I mean, remember Winchester and Epoxy are going to do better and we expect CAPV to do incrementally better as well. I think adding anything back to our rates, maybe below the numbers that you spoke of gets us there. When you take that in combination with the fact that look we don't have another $100 million penalty from not being able to run our VCM unit for a whole quarter, for example. So when you put those two things together, I don't think we need to get there. By 2025, I think we need to be in the 60s.

Yes. Well, if we weren't having success moving product values, then we would keep running this initiative. But we're having success changing the direction of our product pricing.

What I would say is that's the natural expiration of that contract. And we're currently in a dispute with a very significant value lift opportunity. So we'll just have to see where that goes by 2030.

Yes. Well, I mean, right now, Jeff, the chlorine and chlorine derivative side is weaker for us. So, we generally set our participation according to that weaker side. And so we're having an impact. But more than likely, the bigger part of the impact will be on the stronger side because you end up really shorting that demand profile more.

Yes, sure. I mean, no, we're absolutely doing more than considering that, right. I mean, look, effectively this is illegal product trade flows coming into both Europe and the U.S. And this has to be stopped. And for some of the reasons that you said, it's likely to continue. So, we're absolutely going to pursue that.

I think in terms of getting rates up, we've reduced our on the ground capacity quite a bit and we're using our systems portfolio to get some operating leverage back across our base resin. I think that was the second part of your question.

Yes. And I probably can't help that much on that specific of an item, right? But what I can say is the ramp up of battery production and battery recycling is probably the largest growth item we have across our Chlor Alkali portfolio. There is a demand for more caustic in many of those applications. There is also an additional demand for hydrochloric acid in those as well. So, it's probably the premier growth item over the next 10 years in this business.

Look, give me a little clarification. I missed the gap between what two things.

First of all, Olin does do better when there's a difference in the supply demand profile on the chlorine side of the ECU versus the caustic side of the ECU. Just because we can act on one versus the other. The only challenge that we really that is when both are bad and they're equal. That's the hardest profile for Olin to act on. So we don't have a problem with one being weak and one being stronger. That's the way we're set up now. Caustic is stronger, flooring is weak, but overlaying that is just general weakness and that's why our earnings are down.

Yes. And I understand your comment. That was just a sequential issue and it's really only order pattern related and delivery related. A lot of those deliveries into the military application are very large and they're very discrete. So that's only an order pattern issue. Again, I would just compare year-on-year-on-year and there's substantial lifts year-on-year-on-year.

Yes. I mean principally that's it. You're right. I mean phenol acetone co-production a little bit like chlorine caustic. And we sort of transferred some of our model that we run in the ECU world into our phenol acetone production and marketing scheme. And so you've seen us take advantage of that and get some value out of assets.

No. I don't think there's any risk there at all. I mean, what I will say is that, look, I mean, there's always this sort of backdoor play to try to go after the second amendment of the constitution in the U.S., and that's what that is. And those kind of things are not likely to be very successful. I just go back to the fact that probably in this country, there's 26,000 gun laws on the books. Still sports shooting is the largest participant sport in the country just below exercise. Okay? And coming after ammunition, there's probably an unsuccessful road that some might follow there.

No, there's no incremental cost. We can move those up and down rather quickly. And in fact just a smaller point for you that's pretty interesting is the diaphragm systems relative to the membrane systems are very easy to go up and down. That's an advantage of asbestos diaphragms or other kinds of diaphragms relative to membrane system, very easy to turn on and off.

Well, I would say not really. I would say it's more attributed to the fact that there's at least 15 million new participants doing sport shooting in this country and every month, I forget how many, maybe someone will tell me how many months in a row that the mix background checks have been above 1 million guns a month, but it's like 40 million or 50 million maybe even more. I just can't remember the number and that trend continues. And that's driven a lot more participation in the sport.

Well, I would just say thanks very much to everybody for attending today. Thank you.