Scott Salmirs
ABM Industries Incorporated (ABM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, no, thanks for the question, Jasper. I would say that we're really pleased that we were able to return capital back to our shareholders over Q4, especially in light of the compression in our share price that we saw after our Q3. And as we look to the future, within FY '24 at a minimum, we'll buy back shares against the dilutive share-based compensation. We have a Board authorization now for about $210 million worth of shares and so we'll be opportunistic where it makes sense.

Thanks.

That's great. Thanks for the question. So, look, we feel as strongly about Technical Solutions as we ever have. We love kind of the end markets that we're serving here and we think it's going to be a strong year for Technical Solutions in '24. They continually post high single-digit margins. We're expecting that again. And remember Faiza, the cadence of Technical Solutions, it starts off a little soft and then progresses through the year from a margin standpoint, because it is quite seasonal. In the summer you do a lot of the work, right? So we're excited about that. We don't guide to revenue, but we're excited about the potential for growth this year. And we have the strongest backlog that we've ever had. And just as a reminder, backlogs are the contracts that are signed and locked, and it's just a question of starting the work. So we're feeling really good about technical solutions this year.

Sure. So there's really three core areas. There's bundled energy solutions, EV and RavenVolt. And I guess the best way to describe it is our sentiment on those different industries -- those sub industries, and we just feel really strong about EV. All the signs are pointing to strong growth there. Because if you remember, like there's been some news coverage lately that EV is maybe taking a step back or is not as exciting as it was. But that's all in context to the crazy growth rates that they've had in the past. And the truth is, what a lot of the car dealers are realizing is the impediment to this excitement is -- they call it range fear that people feel like they're going to run out of power. And that's because there's not a lot of infrastructure. So for us, the catalyst, the way we see EV, the catalyst for our growth is going to be the fact that infrastructure is so light. So we're really happy about our backlog. So EV is going to be a really strong segment for us.

And RavenVolt, we're really excited about. We have a very strong backlog, probably close to half of our backlog in Technical Solutions is around RavenVolt and these big projects. And the frustrating part, frankly, is the fact that it's really hard to time these quarter-by-quarter, because the way you got to think about it, Faiza, it's not -- they're basically battery backup projects, right? And it's not like you're going in and installing one battery, these are battery fields. Some of them are the size of a football field, right? So it's almost like a construction project and timing a construction project, getting the permits, getting the equipment. So when you look across a year, we feel really confident that RavenVolt is going to perform, but can I tell you whether or not, Q2 is going to be stronger than Q1? It's hard to get that insight, but we're getting better at it, frankly. We think the back half of the year is going to be stronger than the first half of the year right now. But RavenVolt is going to be another big, strong performer for ATS.

And then the last piece is Bundled Energy Solutions. And that's the one that's going to be most pressured. And the way I want you to think about it, think about these big projects where you go in and retrofit a school, and it's a $15 million project, changing out the lighting, the air conditioning equipment, the heating equipment. And what ends up happening there is, it's high capital for these schools, and the IRRs were typically really strong when interest rates are low. But now that interest rates are higher, it's causing them to push and to see, will interest rates come down. What's going to happen? And that's why you're seeing a little bit of a setback in Bundled Energy Solutions. And plus, there's been a lot of government funding through the CARES Act, and so there's been a lot of free money out there for schools. So we think that's going to be sun setting towards the end of this year. So I would suggest that Bundled Energy Solutions will be soft in '24, more excited about '25. But that being said, they'll still perform, just not at the kind of run rate that they used to be at, where it was over $200 million in projects. It'll probably be around half that this year, which is still fairly strong, but not what we're used to. So hopefully that gives you more color.

Thanks, Faiza.

Yeah, no, that's a great question. Yeah, it's partly that. It's partly we have a little healthcare in there, but more importantly it's an engineering segment. So if you think about, especially with the Able acquisition, where between Able and the legacy ABM, we had a lot of stationary engineers, and that's about 25% of our business is just engineering. And that doesn't change with office occupancy or density. If you have eight engineers in an engine room, whether you're 80% occupied or 95%, that's really not going to change. And we have parking in that segment as well. And that's been relatively stable since we've come out of the pandemic. So that moderates the janitorial, which is the piece of it that becomes more variable. So when, I guess Andy, I'm so glad you brought up this question, because like when we look at B&I, we want you to look at that as just purely janitorial and having all that kind of variability, so to speak, based on density. Because the truth of it is, it's so mitigated by, again, the engineering specifically.

Sure, Andy. And you know, these things are so complex, right? And the way I would think about it is, when you think about deploying an ERP, like the easiest part of it is putting your financial system in. It's all the other systems that talk to it, right? Whether it's your payroll system, your T&E system, your procurement system. And the data has to flow in and out through a pipe. It's almost like a -- I look at it like a Lego, where you got the middle of the Lego is the ERP, and then you have all these systems coming around it creating a wheel. And as part of that, what we learned with education is it's just going to take longer to get that data flow right and clean, and to set up all the processes to go in and out of the ERP. And then once you launch the system, all the -- we call it hypercare internally, which is basically all the training, all the answering of questions of the field as they start using the new system. And it's just -- it's taking longer than we originally expected because we had no frame of reference, right? So I think the strong point here, Andy, more than anything, is this is -- it's not a system that's off the rails. It's not like, hey, we were going with Oracle and we ditched that and now we're going to SAP. It's not like we had a specific consulting group that was helping us through some process work, and we had to change them and scrap it and start over again. So none of this is about really missteps, it's really about the fact that risk mitigation is the most important thing to us internally and to our shareholders, right. So we just have to make sure we do everything we can so that our invoices are right, our payables are right, and our payroll is right, and it's just going to take a year longer, but it's all for like good reason.

Thanks, Andy.

Good morning.

Yeah. No change in philosophy as we mentioned. When we look at capital allocation, first and foremost we want to ensure that we're actually investing in our organic growth. And we feel that we actually have sufficient investments there with ELEVATE and other key investments. When you look at the fact that, after looking at organic growth M&A opportunities, we actually have excess cash, we look at how's the best way to deploy that back to shareholders. And after Q3, with the compression that we saw in the share price, we thought that it was prudent to actually take actions. But going forward, we'll actually take a balanced approach. We manage our leverage. Currently, right now it's 2.3 times, and we anticipate that's going to be consistent going to the next year. So we'll continue to look at opportunities and allocate accordingly.

Yeah. So look, we've done a really good job on the e-commerce side, and we'll see some good growth there, but probably more normalized. But it's really, you know, where we're focusing now, like semiconductors, biopharm, or some of the manufacturing stuff that we're doing, we think those will be higher growth areas. Listen, I have to tell you, we'll have this little impediment in '24 because of the rebalancing of one big client. But we have every confidence in the outer years after that that this is going to be a high-single digit grower, one of our fastest growing in all of ABM. So really enthusiastic about the Manufacturing and Distribution industry segment.

Sure. That's a good question. So there's so much going on in aviation that we're excited about. Firstly, we've had a new management team in place for the last couple of years that have been phenomenal, both on the ability to operate the business and then on business development. We've been really excited about. And you may remember, David, that we started a few years back, shifting our focus to airports and less on airlines, because we saw all the modernizations that were happening across the country. And the perfect example of that is LaGuardia, just got named the best new airport in the world. Terminal B is like, I don't know, 80% of that airport. We do everything there. We just got a very large, we call it APS, which is ABM Performance Solutions, which is integrated facility services. Basically, where the client says, look, you self-perform a bunch of these services, in addition to that, why don't you take care of all our subcontracted services as well? So basically bundling everything together and letting us run it. So we just got a massive contract at LaGuardia to handle all of Terminal B, also Providence School Systems, we got. So we're excited about the ability to take this ABM Performance Solutions to airports around the country and our pipeline is growing there. So air travel is up. It continues to be up. Aviation had a really great year. It was also helped, if you remember in Q1, by the parking project that happened in 2022. A lot of the expenses happened in 2022, but we got paid in '23, so the profit flow-through was about $11 million or $12 million. So that helped as well. But we were very, very enthusiastic about Aviation and its growth ability for next year. And again, loving the team.

Yeah, sure. Look, I think for us as a brand, it certainly -- I guess our positioning has changed a great deal, because we came through this pandemic different than our competitors, and I think our competitors would admit that too with developing our enhanced clean product, we got so much more exposure on social media. If you remember, we did a commercial, so we've become more prevalent. And it's just a different swagger, I guess, if you will, when we're pursuing business development and talking to clients. And then you layer on top of that, David, all the investments that we're making in technology, and to sit across from a client in a presentation and show them a digital dashboard and how we're monitoring their facilities with this ABM team connect and how very shortly all of our team members in the field are going to have an app that is going to connect them to the client, to us. It's just going to be game changer. So I just feel like this momentum that we're having is very palpable. And I would close off the comment by saying, we just had another record year of new sales. We were -- to give you context a few years back, we put a true north of, is it possible to possibly bring in $1 billion in new sales. And we were like, that was our, like aspiration that was really far out there and this year we did over $1.6 billion in new sales. I mean, what we brought in, in new sales is probably three times bigger than our nearest competitor in terms of total revenue, not what they brought in, I'm talking about their book of business. So we feel like we have a really compelling value proposition.

Sure. We're, like, so happy about our Education positioning. We're the clear number one in Education, and we're split between K through 12 and Higher Ed. We had great growth this year, brought in over $100 million in new business, we have never done that before. And our margins are up since the pandemic. We've held on to that. And then what I said earlier, Marc, about our APS or our integrated solution that we not only got at LaGuardia, but Providence School District, that's something that we're pitching now to our educational clients that, like, listen, we can do so many things and self-perform, put everything under us and we'll strategically manage it. Our pipeline is really growing there. We picked up George Washington University last year. So we're just really excited about that industry group. And we typically project like kind of GDP-ish growth, and hopefully we'll get to GDP plus. Usually it's longer decision time frames in that segment, but again, the proof is in the pudding and we just had a tremendous year this year. So I appreciate you asking that question.

Thank you.

Just I wanted to thank everybody for their interest, and we were excited to close out the year the way we did. And '24 will be a challenging year for everybody in the business environment, we know that. But I could just tell you that this team at ABM is going to be attacking it with enthusiasm, and we're really excited about it. So have an amazing holiday, everybody. Hopefully get some time with your loved ones. And we look forward to giving you an update in Q1. So take care, everybody.