Scott Barbour
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. (WMS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey Michael.

Okay. Roy is a pretty happy guy, Mike. I have to admit. And we had a nice send off with him and with our Board [indiscernible] evening. And we will miss him. So, I would say the upper end of the guidance, if I get your question correctly, what set of events would have to occur to get to that upper-end? And then what set of events would have to get occurred to get to that lower-end? And I think at the upper-end, we certainly have to see a quicker upturn in the demand environment, which is weak, we're probably in the worst part of the demand environment. Right now, as our markets weaknesses are overlapping between residential and non-residential. And I would say, to get to that upper end of the guidance would require a quicker upturn than the plan and a continued favorable price and material environment.

Now, we're working the price really well. Right now, the material environment is pretty good, but if there were some extraordinary event that took it down. That would be getting us towards the upper end of the guidance, let's say. The lower end of the guidance clearly would be more non -- in particular non-residential weakness. If you ask me what keeps me up at night, it's the effect of tightening credit standards on local and regional banks, which are the lifeblood of those construction projects that were out there. It's kind of our meat and potatoes stuff.

Now, the infrastructure, the onshoring that offset some of it, but not all of that meat and potatoes. So, the lower end of the guide would be governed by kind of the opposite effects. This worst non-residential market and then if there was some extraordinary event around materials that took them the wrong way. And -- or the pricing plan, we think we have a very good handle on the pricing plan. But thinking about those things we can't control, that would worry me on the lower end of that guidance.

I smiled, because some of our sales leadership has described as the demand is out there, there's just no financing for the demand. Particularly in the non-residential, there is hesitancy in some regions to move forward with projects, either because of increased kind of equity requirements around those real-estate projects, or worry about vacancy rates in that area. There's other -- things are pretty robust. We always talk about the Atlantic Coast, Southeast, Texas where we are in Central Ohio, very robust, but we do go to other places, particularly out west, not so robust much more hesitancy to pull the trigger. The Northeast, lot more hesitancy to pull the trigger on new projects. And that's where we see the most weakness.

Onshoring has been strong, pursuing a lot of projects in the onshoring. Scott makes a good point. We've -- we're actually actively shipping to get some better battery and electric vehicle related, we're in pursuit of many projects on that, the business development platform that we developed to pursue residential homebuilders and the warehouses and the datacenters has been a perfect vehicle for us to plot this type of activity on. And as you all know there’s probably -- there's different engineering firms, sometimes different contractors, different relationships, but we've made that pivot over the last kind of six nine months, pretty well I think.

All right. Thank you.

Okay, Matt, that's it's kind of the eternal question of what's the ultimate profitability level of the company. And we're pretty pleased that we got to the long-term -- the three-year Investor Day target in the first year, actually went a little bit past it, and we have a lot of confidence to be able to stay in that range. And as we look at kind of that next plan, there's probably another leg-up in that 150 basis-point type of range, where we can get in that next three year plan. So as you kind of lookout, we don't think that we've topped out in market share, or in our ability to drive increased profitability in the business.

As you know, there's kind of three or four really big factors in that, price, material cost, the mix of Infiltrator and Allied products, that drive a lot of gross margin improvements in that. We've added to that the ability to -- it's not been easy, but in the pipe business, trying to get our arms around some of the conversion costs in that through the automation, couple of plant closures and things. So the four tools remain there price, mix, materials, all of that stuff. These other ones that we will add to the -- have been adding and will continue to add to the mix will be important tools. So I don't think we're done yet. I guess, that would be my summary.

We're not done yet.

So, the -- we see all those same things that you just mentioned in land development, the onsite septic. I'd say, kind of right now, we're waiting for some of those things to develop and impact us. We hear the talk, we see some activity, but it hasn't really manifested itself in orders and demand for us. So it's kind of, Matt, I think, not this quarter, if it's going to happen, it's going to happen to the back end. I will -- our customers in some of these spaces are certainly feel better today than they did in November.

It is too early to call right now.

And that would be beneficial to our non-res business. I mean, that would signal to us, Matt, that, let's say, we get to September and we feel much more positive about the residential, that would signal to us that the non-res will follow in four to six months for sure, and that would be a nice day at ADS.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

So the -- I would say that the outperformance was led by residential more than non-residential. The kind of sales revenue and total kind of came out about where we thought it would, in line with this guidance. But there was slightly better mix and slightly better price and material performance and transportation than we anticipated as we were putting together the plans for the month.

The word we like to use, hey, we had a decent month, right? It's not a data point to extract for the whole year. It's -- had a good month. We knew people would want to know, we're slightly ahead of plan, May's looking okay. It's the, plan we're executing against that plan. What I'd like to kind of say is, it's early in the year. This uncertainty around non-residential in the lending standards is real and affects how people go and start construction projects.

And as you all know and it's in the chart, we're at the front end of the construction process in the ADS business. So if this stuff gets -- waivers a little bit. I mean, that impacts us. And we just do not want to overestimate what that could be to us, and that's what we put in this guidance. Had a good start, you'd like to have a good start to the year and the quarter and that's what we did and we'll keep working it.

Thank you.

So, Scott Barbour here, Jeff. I would say for us in infrastructure, the year we had where each quarter showed some improvement or each quarter showed some growth and improvement, it's probably minimal share gain. I think the real share gain will be coming in the future as we get specified on projects in Texas, as we get specified on projects in the East Coast or the Southeast, and in Florida, where we know our share gains. But probably minimal share gains last year in that performance, it was more just money beginning to flow from that IIJA. That said, our I wouldn't call IIJA funds flow to date, what does that been two years now since that was approved probably?

I wouldn't say all of it has been flowing in our kind of direction yet, a lot of that money is our guys are out in the field. It's been on repair and replaced, asphalts, bridges, services, design. So the capacity adds of roads and highways, which is really where we play is I think yet to come in that's in those spending packages.

Back half over the next year.

Could you repeat your question, I'm sorry. I'll add my thing in if repeat your question. I apologize.

Yes, destocking is over. No doubt about that. And we -- it primarily occurred in Infiltrator, it exclusively occurred really in Infiltrator. We've worked through that, we talk a lot about that would Roy, Craig, and the team and we feel very confident that's kind of done. And their pace of order intake and ship is right back to where it was pre-pandemic. It's a pretty quick turnaround business. And what I was going to add, I apologize for like tacking something onto Mike's thing, I think the most important thing is that about the kind of that multi-year program on infrastructure is that, we've made the investment organizationally in sales talent, in pursuit to make that happen. We're not waiting for all those -- the exact right time when the bid package comes out. Starting two years ago, or plus two years ago when we did some reorganization stuff and knew that public was a big place where we could gain share. Before the IIJA was even approved we knew that was a share gain thing, we started making those investments in sales talent and business development talent, and those guys are doing a very nice job. We know a ton more about those states and those markets than we did 2.5 years ago. We're really proud of what Bob Klein and that team are doing and Jon Sickels. That helped drive the Texas approval, all those efforts.

So we have the capability and scale to go make those investments 2.5 years ago. That does take some time to go and pay off. We understand that about our business and when we talk about the resiliency of our business, that’s one of the things that I always mean is, we have that size and scale to make long-term investments in organization and people, because it's a long-cycle business. And we're able to go and do that. And I don't think -- I think that's really different about us, versus many of our competitors that I see in this business. So I just took a little time there to really -- that's the important part of this whole thing I think.

Good morning.

Okay. So I would -- let's take backlogs first. This is Scott Barbour, Bryan welcome. Backlog and backlog behavior and let's just take Infiltrator as an example, is more reflective of pre-pandemic, where we would have, what, $7 million, $8 million through -- two or three days where the backlog in Infiltrator and it's a very fast cycle business, you get an order, it ships out within a day -- one to three days. The ADS behavior is a little different, it's more of a 30 day to 60 day maturity of that backlog and it is now kind of down to levels that were pre-pandemic, think of them as 2019 type of levels.

Which again tells us that we've got any overstocking flushed out of the channel, it kind of tells us back to we've absorbed all the hits on that and it looks at the ADS side and says, well, there were bubble in some areas, we kind of thought that, we're back to these kind of pre-pandemic levels in many areas, somewhat below them in some areas, in some regions of the country. As you know, it's a very regional business. And you have to look at it in that way.

The book-to-bill is above one. It's just -- the demand is down over those kind of bubble periods I believe.

I'd say that's been the case since January.

I think the November -- clearly October, November, December, there were adjustments going on in our markets and we were making adjustments also, that really started in September in residential, hard and then it began in non-res early November-December. Since those adjustments, January, February, March, April had been very customary types of behavior in the shipment behavior.

Thank you.

All right. We really appreciate the participation in today's call and the questions, very good questions and we're glad to answer them. We look forward to talking to several of you later today and over the next couple of days. And have a good day and a good weekend. Thank you.