Sean Keohane
Cabot Corporation (CBT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi John. Sure. Let me try to provide a bit of commentary on the guidance and how we're thinking about it. As I said, I think we see that destocking is largely over in our key end markets both for reinforcement and Performance Chemicals. So, I think that's positive. But I would say in Performance Chemicals where your question went, we're not yet seeing any external indicators that are pointing to improvement. So I think near-term volumes will likely stay near the near the Q4 levels.

I think to see improvement from that, we'd want to see some signs from key end market indicators, things like manufacturing PMI, improvements in housing and construction, and I think consumer confidence, particularly as it relates to durable goods, we're still seeing more of a skew towards services rather than durable goods. So, we'd need to see those indicators to break out from kind of that current Q4 rate of volume in Performance Chemicals.

I would say across the different product lines there in Performance Chemicals, the only, I think notable difference would be in fume silica. Erica commented on the silicones market and her remarks, and clearly the fume silica market, our volumes were down by the largest amount across the product lines and Performance Chemicals. And this is because there's overall weakness in silicones, which is a big end market that consumes fume silica. So I think that's often tied to housing and construction and infrastructure and we're just simply not seeing movements there yet. So again, the Q4 level of volume, that's sort of a rate in Performance Chemicals is, I think, the right way to think about it until we see some end market improvement.

I think the second part of your question around battery materials, we're still seeing volumes growing strongly year-over-year. So I think that is positive. Though as you point out, there are some signs that there's been some deceleration in the market. Certainly some public commentary on this would point in that direction for sure. And I think it’s the way we look at it is we think about this over the long-term. Clearly the shift to EVs, we think is a once ever transition and will change the mobility sector. But I don't think it'll be a straight line. And there are a lot of moving parts here. Certainly the level of EV penetration, the timing and startup of new battery plants, there are lots of regionalization pressures, government incentives, these things can be distorting in the short term.

And I think the timing of build out of the regional supply chain to support battery plants in the U.S. and Europe, these are all factors that are at play here. So it's a complicated dynamic, but our view on this over the long-term remains, and we're positioning ourselves and investing prudently to win in this trend over the long-term.

Hi, Josh. Good morning. Thanks for the question. Let me just sort of pull the lens back a little bit here and talk about the timeline and process. I think this year negotiations are playing out along the timeline of what we've historically seen, where most of the contracts are finalized in the fall and so we're currently in the midst of discussions with customers now. So it would be premature to comment on contract outcomes today.

In terms of the current market environment, as I said, we believe destocking is largely over and volumes are normalizing from the weaker levels that we saw earlier in the year. And our view is that the long-term fundamentals haven't changed here. The supply demand fundamentals remain favorable in both the Americas and Europe, with no major capacity additions expected. And as we see that in combination with positive trends in end market demand, such as miles driven, those markets should remain fairly tight in 2024 and beyond.

So that really hasn't changed at all. I think the other factor at play here is certainly costs of both ours and those of our competitors which are going up, driven by increasing environmental and regulatory factors. And in order to support our customers in a sustainable way, we need to earn a fair return on these investments and higher operating costs. And so in order to do that, additional pricing is necessary. And this is certainly an industry wide issue, and our customers care about this because they too value our commitment to sustainability. And I think it's important to their own value proposition to their customers in terms of promoting more sustainable products.

So, again, those factors have not changed. And in addition, in Europe, we're seeing customers continue to migrate away from Russian supply ahead of the EU sanctions, which take effect around mid 2024. So those market factors remain, and that's sort of how we see the environment. And just as a reminder, approximately 30% of our contract volumes are under multi-year deals from last year with additional price increases taking effect in 2024. And we view those pricing, the pricing on those contracts as a reference point for 2024.

And so we sit here today, we're in the zone of approximately two thirds of the way through our contract negotiations with price increases achieved across these volumes. But I think saying anything further at this point wouldn't be appropriate. It's sensitive, competitive information, but hopefully that gives you a feel for the environment and our view on things here over the longer term.

Yes, well, I think there are a lot of moving parts. I, certainly we are expecting that volumes would be up low single digits off 2023. And as I commented, the negotiations that we've completed so far are coming with price increases. But then I think there are a number of other factors here. Certainly China overall and how the China market behaves is a big factor, with them making almost 40% of the world's tires.

And then there are other factors here in terms of FX interest rates and where commodity prices are. And so all of those factors don't move at the same direction in the same time. So you have to think through all of these factors, and we have and believe our range accommodates for those. But there are a lot of moving factors here, and so we want to lay out a range that we have confidence in. But one that we think is appropriate given the many uncertainties that are out there right now.

Hi, Lawrence. Well, that certainly is a factor as I walk through the overall environment that certainly is a factor in the discussions with customers. Because Russia had been a significant supplier to the European rubber and tire industry, and with sanctions coming into effect midway through the calendar year, 2024, I think customers clearly are looking at supply security as an important factor here. I think the other thing that's important for customers beyond the supply security is ultimately this notion of sustainability.

And I think the European producers operate at a different level of sustainability than the Russian players and across the whole industrial complex in Europe. There are moves afoot to introduce things like carbon border adjustment taxes and these things because they know that suppliers outside the region aren't performing at the same level. So I think the supply security and the sustainability aspects are important for our customers and they're certainly factors that are driving customers to value more the regional supply. So, I can't comment or isolate a specific amount to that variable, but it is certainly something that is important in the customer negotiations and important to our customers.

Sure, yes. So we're excited about the progress in our elastomer composite through our E2C technology platform here. And I think clearly there continues to be penetration and success with this technology in the off the road tire segment, which is a very high value segment for tire producers, and we continue to see good progress there. We're also seeing success with customers as they try to extend this technology into parts of the TBR, the truck and bus segment here. And we think in the long-term, this technology certainly has potential to penetrate that part of the market and that would open up the total addressable market in a pretty significant way for E2C.

Exactly trying to pin down the rate of commercialization or the timing is difficult here. The tire industry is, I think, appropriately cautious around new technology development. They take time, run extended road tests and the like to make sure that performance is there before putting these products, particularly consumer products, out on the marketplace. And so that timeline can certainly take some time here. We did see revenues grow this year in this segment in E2C, which I think is supportive of the trend, as I said in OTR and some encouraging signs on the TBR side of things.

I think complementing E2C is also our EVOLVE technology platform launch this year. You could think about both of these as really sustainability plays in the tire space. E2C really very much focusing on improving wear as well as the rolling resistance or fuel economy potential of tires. And then our EVOLVE technology platform really looking at sustainability angles like circularity and trying to enhance that. So you could think about these as very complementary and I think very clearly technologies that our customers care about because they're really pushing hard in this space around sustainability.

So we're excited about the long-term here and see good signs, but clearly the timing to materiality in this industry, it just takes a bit longer. But we're seeing encouraging signs that are causing us to continue to invest in these spaces and we think that's the right thing to do for the long-term in this business.

I'm sorry, Lawrence, what was that?

Well, difficult to tell because while there is a carbon material that comes out of that process, it is not carbon black, it is not an engineered carbon black the way that the tire industry has become accustomed to and formulated around. So I think there remain questions there with respect to the success of that technology. And we feel strongly that working on the elements of our EVOLVE technology platform are a very viable approach for our customers to drive up circularity and improve the footprint of the reinforcing carbons that they need in their materials.

Because I think critically, one of the things that customers care about is producing materials at industrial scale. Our approach here, both between E2C and our EVOLVE Technology platform, we think is the right approach.

Yes. So Morning, Chris. So I think clearly there's been significant destocking this year. I think across the industrial landscape. I think many are saying it's probably the most significant destocking cycle that we have seen. So I think while there's always been these sort of micro cycles of destocking and restocking, I think it was definitely much more pronounced as we came out of COVID and saw things accelerate in 2021 and 2022 and lots of supply chain disruptions and people really perhaps over buying just to have product.

And now, while that's been unwinding across 2023, so it's a bit of a different environment, I would say, than historical. But normally what you do see is that you see that destocking come back because customers have to operate at normalized inventory levels. And if demand is there, then they'll want to make sure that they have the inventory to meet fill rates and the cost of stock out goes higher in the calculus.

And so people generally will then carry a little more inventory to protect against that cost of stock out. But I wouldn't say we've seen signs yet of a restock. I think what we see is that the destocking is largely over.

And I think there are lots of data points that are out there, public data points from our customers in their earnings calls and certain industry publications that I think all point to this. So I think what we're seeing now is something much closer to normal demand. And but I think probably any significant restock would require more robust economic growth.

Again, because I think the calculus is if there's strong growth and people are expecting that to continue, then the cost of stock out goes up and they therefore would build a little more inventory to protect against that. I wouldn't say we're seeing signs of that yet.

Yes, well, there's definitely, I think, a couple of important differences or points of bifurcation, I would say, Chris, one is that we definitely see that our view is that the market will bifurcate into a China market and the rest of world market. Now, even inside of those geographic splits in terms of market, you do see differences depending on battery chemistry.

So LFP is generally viewed as lower performing in terms of range, for example, but also lower cost, whereas NMC chemistry is better at range, therefore viewed as a higher performing chemistry, but higher cost. And so our market view is that there'll be room for both technologies. What you see today is China does skew more towards LFP today.

And that makes sense because if you look at the China EV market, you've got, first of all, a significant number of hybrid vehicles on the road. So the battery performance of hybrids is not as demanding. But then you've got a segment of lower priced EVs where again, the performance of the battery, the expectations is lower.

And therefore there's a large chunk of that market that is pretty price competitive in terms of the vehicles and pushing all the way back up through the chemistry inputs. But what you see on the NMC side is something different where the performance requirements are higher and therefore the competitive intensity is lower. So when we're selling into customers or applications for NMC, for high value cars, or for export of batteries to Western automakers, we're seeing that our pricing is remaining stable.

And when we're selling outside of China, again, where the market is quite different, orients more towards NMC and where the quality requirements of the Western auto OEs are very different than the low end of the auto OE market in China. We're seeing price stability there, too. So we do think the market will bifurcate both in terms of geography as well as chemistry.

But ultimately there'll be a role for both chemistries and we participate across both chemistries. But it's going to be about segmentation where we participate, which customers, which applications, which geographies, and trying to optimize that over time to build a valuable long term-business. That's the trick here.

Yes, I can't add any more color, obviously, Chris, to that because we have confidentiality requirements with customers. But certainly I think the ramp up in the Western markets is a bit tricky to try to project. And as I said earlier, it won't be a straight line. I think there are just lots of moving parts here. I think the long-term trend and momentum around that remains, but the exact rate of vehicle penetration, the timing of new battery plants, and how they start up, all the pressures around regionalization and governments putting money behind this definitely can have impact, but also can create some distortions. And so there's just a lot of moving parts here that's difficult in the very short-term to project with any high degree of precision. But we're really focused on trying to build out a valuable long-term business because ultimately, the whole mobility sector, we view, will transition.

And mobility is a critical end market for us, not just in this new space of batteries, but also our materials that support lightweighting will remain very important. In fact, more important, I would say, because EVs are heavier than internal combustion engines. So the trends around lightweighting will remain. And then ultimately, I think, the tire market reformulates tires to develop performance to better match EVs. So this whole mobility transition is something that's very important for Cabot Corp. And that's why we're thinking about it over the long-term.

Yes. For 2024 David we are not providing a specific guide because I think there's a lot of moving parts, as said here. But we would expect that EBITDA in 2024 would grow with continued volume growth and better product mix in China, as we optimize our participation and drive higher penetration of these higher performing grades that I was just talking about here. So we do expect that we would have earnings growth over 2024, probably something in line with how the market grows overall. And then you kind of pull the lens back here. Again, we're playing for the long-term here. We believe the business has the potential to be a material contributor to Cabot's earnings in the future.

And so to give you a sense of that potential, in roughly five years, we might expect this business could generate something around $100 million of EBITDA. But again, it won't be a straight line and lots of moving parts here. So hopefully that gives you some sense of how we're thinking about the long-term and the business we're trying to build out while in this near-term environment. It's tricky and dynamic, but we are expecting EBITDA growth in 2024.

Well, thank you all for joining the call today and for our wrap of 2024 and our priorities 2023. Sorry and our priorities for 2024 and appreciate your support Cabot and look forward to talking to you again next quarter. Thank you.