Sean Trauschke
OGE Energy Corp (OGE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you. And congrats on the pronunciation of your name. They did.

Yes. I think that's a great question. And so we'll handle this process just like we did with the last one. And so what we'll do is we'll finalize that IRP. We'll go through the RFP process where we go to an extensive review. There's a lot of stakeholder discussions.

We follow all of the commission rules, and then we'll negotiate some agreements. And we'll file that at the commissions. And once we get approval, then we'll layer that into our forecast. A couple of points about that. I think your point there with that crowd out.

I'd probably use a different word than crowd. But what I would say to that, is that we have a lot of flexibility around our investments, and we can move some things around. So yes, we will be very flexible and move some things around and really smooth that impact out the customers as much as we can.

And then I've said repeatedly, our preference, our very strong preference is to really smooth these generation additions out over a number of years. And I mean so not to create a situation where we have a very large asset going into service over a couple of years. Does that help?

Yes. Thanks for that. And what I would say, Shahriar, is I think Bryan was very clear there's really no equity needs in our plan. I think what I would offer for you, though, is that we're managing this business for the long term. And when we have the opportunity with our investments and our growth down the road, and we need to issue the equity, we'll issue it.

Bryan, you want to cover that one?

Thank you. Thank you. That will be a big day.

Yes. Really, Horseshoe Lake is the single big project in the 5-year capital plan, really what is driving a lot of that is load growth. We are investing a lot in connecting new customers and building infrastructure to support them all the while improving the reliability and resiliency of our assets. But other than Horseshoe Lake, there's not a big project in there that's really driving that.

Not at this time. I mean, it's still early in the process and testimony has been filed for already yet. And so we'll go through that and we'll get this resolved. And continue executing on our business.

Thanks, Julien. Good to hear from you.

And I think all of those points you raised are important points for us to consider. I think the credit metrics and the FFO to debt, that's very important to us, and we're going to manage our balance sheet that way.

As we think about the customer impact, inflation, that is a key indicator that we would look at, but I think more importantly to that is we really forecast this load growth to continue for many, many years. And we play a big role in facilitating that continuation, that growth. And so what we want to do is make sure that our service area does not see any large increases in rates, thereby mitigating or slowing down that growth. Does that help?

Yes. Julien, just to be perfectly clear, we have no needs and no plans to issue equity over this 5-year horizon.

And we've pursued those and executed those settlements in the past. And we did that during our Horseshoe Lake proceedings, and we hope to do that again this time.

Yes. I think Bryan was very clear to say there was no dips.

Yes. Let Bryan, do you want to tackle that?

Yes. Thanks, Anthony. I think you should expect it to be linear. We have every expectation to do what we say we're going to do. And there's not a particular bias to the upside on the low side, but the bias is to do what we say we're going to do and achieve the 5% to 7% on an annual basis.

Bryan, do you want to tackle that one?

Yes. Paul, this is Sean. I think that's accurate where we sit today. right? And I think as Bryan mentioned, as we see other projects come in, we have a lot of latitude, a lot of flexibility to move things around in our investment profile, and we're going to be very cognizant of the previous question in terms of managing our balance sheet and our credit metrics and the impact to customers, so it's not to slow down this tremendous loan growth that we see continuing for many years.

Yes, we can.

Aditya, it will be an ongoing discussion. I think the first step in all of that is you need testimony to be filed and then we'll begin those discussions, but I think that would be in the second quarter.

Bryan?

Thank you, Deedee, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. Thank you for your interest in OGE Energy and for being on the call, and have a great day.