Sean Gamble
Cinemark Holdings, Inc. (CNK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks for the question. That's basically a new format of one of our theaters, that at least the way we're looking at it with the family entertainment center. So, an extension of theaters that has a little bit larger-scale gaming in it as well as some bowling concepts and a little bit larger bar restaurant facility. We've had some really positive experience with that in a joint venture that we currently have for a single venue. And we've seen how well these types of concepts have performed both during the pandemic and since. So, we look at that as a really positive opportunity for diversification, for growth. It can also provide opportunities both from a new build perspective, as well as also remodels of existing theaters where we may have a large theater that doesn't quite need all of the auditoriums that we have.

So, the two that I referenced include one new build that we have currently underway in El Paso, Texas, as well as a remodel that we have underway of our Merriam, Kansas City theater.

Thanks, Eric. Appreciate the questions.

Sure. Thanks for the question, David. Yes, I mean, just to quickly answer your question on '25, we do anticipate, based on the information we have at hand right now that it would notch further forward from 2023's volume level approaching pre-pandemic levels. We saw a nice trajectory of progress from '22 to '23. As mentioned, unfortunately, that was disrupted by a disruption in supply chain production due to the Hollywood strikes. But based on all of our conversations with our studio partners with regard to what they have currently in process from production as well as their ongoing plans, coupled with what we know is happening at Apple and Amazon as well as with some of this additional non-traditional content, we remain positive and optimistic about that spring back in recovery. So that's really the drivers of why we think '25 will just quickly bounce back to that recovery path we've been on.

Thanks, David.

Sure. Well, I think it's a great observation that you have. We do tend to see films continue to be added through the year. In some ways, that actually was a little bit elevated in the fourth quarter when several films moved out as a result of the Hollywood strikes. We saw a number of smaller films get dated that previously weren't -- some weren't even on the radar prior to that.

So, as we sit right now, we have line of sight to about 90 titles. So, we're assuming another five or so get added above and beyond that. So that's kind of generally in line with what we've seen in the past. That may be tempered a little bit in 2024, just simply because of the effect of the Hollywood strikes on production cycle. The only other thing that I would flag is the way this year is -- the calendar is lined up, there is definitely a concentration of larger films toward the end of the year, again, a byproduct of the strikes on production.

So, there is a chance. I'm just saying there's -- we have no line of sight to any risk right at this moment of anything fluctuating. But if the normal course of making movies, if something doesn't come together, there's a situation where something could slide out. So, I'm just flagging that because it's a little bit more heavily loaded at year-end than we've seen over the last couple of years. But there's the potential for additional films to pop in like we saw in '23, and that's where we sit right now.

All right. Thanks, Mike. Let me start with the first question. So, just touching a little bit more on 2025 estimates volume, prior to the strikes, the whole industry was still in the recovery mode, rebuilding the whole production pipeline of films that was affected by COVID. And at that time, we were anticipating perhaps in '25, '26 would be the time that we could see things get back to pre-pandemic levels, again, based on how things were progressing at that point.

As a result of the strikes, clearly, that created over six months of work stoppage and delayed things. There were some movements out of '24 into '25. And as we sit here today, and what we're going on is just largely the discussions, the ongoing conversations we're having with our studio partners. 2025, while there's certainly the potential it could get back there to pre-pandemic levels, I'd say we're probably looking at that maybe more of a 2026 phenomenon.

Apple and Amazon are certainly building to your question on that, they've been adding. We know that Amazon has publicly stated that they are working towards a slate of eight to 12 films a year. They may get there in 2025. I think we'll have to see how that just comes together, but I know that's a directional target that we understand at least that they're working towards. And Apple's building as well.

So, can't fully call it now. It's kind of why we've tried to give a sense where we see things coming in somewhere between 2023 and 2020 in pre-pandemic levels as we sit here today. But we're optimistic. Again, things are moving in the right direction, and we're thrilled to see that the studios, despite what happened with the strikes, there hasn't been any change in the strategy with regard to studios' intentions to continue rebuilding their pipeline of films. If anything, it's been reinforced by just the ongoing results that these films are providing those companies.

Transitioning to your question on our circuit, you're right, we've had certainly a higher number of closures of theaters domestically over the last couple of years than we have had new builds and additions. As you mentioned, those theaters, while we've always had a process of optimizing our circuit and closing lower-performing feeders and older theaters and repopulating that with newer opportunities, there have been more of those that have been on the cusp that we've exited, which net-net do provide a bit of bottom line lift for our company going forward. So, from a just pure EBITDA perspective, it's actually a net positive.

We have added, at the same time, about 16 new theaters over the last few years, and we've seen that the results of those theaters have been very strong. In fact, in the majority of those cases, our actual results have exceeded our pre-pandemic pro forma targets that we had in mind based on significantly higher volume levels. So it definitely gives us a sense that there are clearly those market opportunities still. And as I mentioned in prepared remarks, we've reactivated that development pipeline now as we've seen that, and certainly, as we just continue to build further in our recovery.

So, as we look forward, I think, yes, we do anticipate that we will start to see a greater amount of activity of real estate, new build to supplement and offset some of the closures that we had. It doesn't mean we wouldn't have some more of those types of closures that happen as we're just trimming some of the lower-performing older assets in our company, but we do expect that we'll be adding more than we have over the past few years. Clearly, that's going to be moderated a bit just based on our continued cash flow generation coming out of this year in 2024 as we continue to recover and balancing that with some of the debt actions that Melissa mentioned.

Thanks, Mike.

Sure, Jim, let me answer that and then if need be, I can elaborate further. The current direction is, I'd say, more akin to traditional studios. I think what everybody's data has shown is these films that are being released theatrically are performing better on streaming platforms and they're delivering [indiscernible] amount of value in terms of consumer interest. So, acquisition, retention, those are the films that tend to be viewed to a higher extent.

So, I mean, what we're seeing right now from the streamers is they're leaning into similar types of traditional films and looking to launch them in similar ways to derive that same type of lift on their platforms when they hit those platforms. By the way, with comparable types of windows, which are starting to gel around that 45 days give or take us some.

By the way, that also -- we also continue to see the opportunity for additional types of programming, as you mentioned, where it doesn't have to be limited to films. We've seen phenomenal consumer enthusiasm and response for premieres of series, episodes, even bringing back episodes that have previously been shown on these platforms that are really well received by fans. They just -- they love. Again, as we know, the most active streamers are our most active moviegoers. These are people who just love to view this content in an elevated format and they also view it amply at home. So, this is just a great way to give fans an elevated event and [indiscernible] opportunity. So, they're leaning into in similar ways and we just -- we see the opportunities there to be sizable both for films as well as other episodic type of programming.

The deals definitely vary based on who carries the inventory risk. So, it is something that we remain highly focused on as we pursue merchandise. So, there are many examples where we do take on that risk and we're careful about how much we're purchasing as a result of that. And then like I said, there's other models where the supplier is carrying that risk.

We are leaning more into e-commerce opportunities with merchandise in addition to what we have in our theaters with -- we've seen a great appetite for that for consumers. And obviously, there's greater self space and greater opportunity to host more SKUs that way. And those types of models lend themselves more to a model where there's more risk for by the actual supplier than by us.

But it's a great question. It's something that we are particularly focused on, especially as we're ramping that part of our business more.

When you mention a kiosk, are you referring to just like kind of a pop-up stand or are you talking about...

That's right. I mean, we have shelf space and stands in the majority of our theaters already where we put merchandise. Sometimes that's limited by the size and space in our lobbies, but we do that already today. And what the online channel provides is an opportunity not only for that same merchandise, but other SKUs.

I mean, a perfect example is what we saw earlier in 2023 when we had Scream popcorn tubs that all of a sudden became this huge phenomenon with fans and we sold out of them almost instantly in our theaters. And we were able then to extend that to an online offering and direct consumers to go purchase them online because they were no longer available in our theaters. And we sold a ton of those online as well.

So, it's a great way to just extend that in certain cases as well as gain greater shelf space for that we may not have available in our theater while carrying lower inventory risk.

Thanks, Jim.

Sure. Thanks for the questions, Omar. Well, first just to clarify, the 14% is specific to Cinemark. So that was our percentage that non-traditional represented of our box office results. So, it was certainly a large part of the industry as well, but we tend to over index on that type of content. So, it would be a touch lower for the industry as a whole.

In terms of future expectations, look, we remain optimistic about the growth in this area. Historically, pre-pandemic, we were seeing -- we always believe there was a lot of potential in alternative content. And it was just something that never really seemed to meet that potential. It generally hovered around 2% or so of box office each year, despite what we saw as upside. And it's been great to see now that that's been playing through certainly in the areas of foreign films, faith-based films, concert films, like those all of a sudden have been taken off.

When we look at 2023 specifically, I would say that was in -- the results were inflated a bit by some real outliers. I mean, obviously you had Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour concert film, which did over $180 million of box office domestically. You had Sound of Freedom, which did about $185 million. Like, those are phenomenons, which -- look, we're hopeful to see some of those repeat, but it's hard to bank on that. But even if you were to strip that out for us, non-traditional content still represented about 9% or so of our full year box office results.

So, when you consider that and we consider where we were last year, look, we're enthused about it. We think that as Hollywood content fully recovers, this could still be 5%-plus or so of box office and there's more potential there. So, I think if you're a musician, you're seeing what Taylor Swift and Beyoncé just did, I don't know how you wouldn't lean into that more. So that's a channel of opportunity.

When you look -- we know already they're in the faith-based category. There's traditional studios like Lions Gate and Sony getting more into that. There's Angel Studios, now has all of a sudden really ramped up production. They've already announced five films this year. They were the ones who brought us Sound of Freedom in 2023. And certainly the foreign films have continued to scale. I mean, Indian films, Chinese films, these movies are doing phenomenal business in the U.S. now. So, we're really optimistic about where this goes. And again, we see this being potentially 5% or so box office going forward, if not greater.

Thanks, Omar.

Sure. I'll start on margins and I'll let Melissa delve into that further as well as your second question, Stephen. This is -- when we talk specifically about labor management, this is an area that we've been working on for some time. Obviously, predates the pandemic, we've seen a lot of opportunity just in the workforce management realm. We've put in that all kinds of time studies around what it takes to perform different activities in our theaters. We become more adept certainly with lower volumes of attendance in determining what things we should turn on or off based on expectations of demand.

It's an area that we've got a range of initiatives that we're continuing to lean into to drive that further. Obviously, the deeper we go into that, the more complicated those efforts become because you're getting into reengineering processes more significantly in order to capture more productivity and do more with less. But we've got a line -- a range of initiatives going forward and I'll let Melissa speak to just margin expectations.

Thanks, Stephen.

Thank you, and thank you all again for joining us this morning.

I'd just like to say once again that we're incredibly proud of the results our tremendous Cinemark team was able to deliver in 2023, and highly encouraged by what those results suggest regarding the potential of our company ahead. While 2024 will be pressured somewhat by the strike-induced volume headwinds that we've discussed, the fundamentals that drive our industry remain intact and we continue to be highly enthusiastic about the future of theatrical exhibition and certainly of Cinemark.

We look forward to speaking with you all again following our first quarter 2024 results. Thank you.