Shane O'Kelly
Advance Auto Parts, Inc. (AAP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey Chris, it's Shane. Not unsurprisingly, new CFO, new CAO, digging in in the business and looking at our different methods of estimating what we keep and what's dead and what's not and they're digging in to set us up for success and that's exactly what's occurring here.

Hey, Michael, it's Shane, and Ryan will add to this. So first, you heard some color from Ryan. We sat at a one OI in terms of what we published. You can kind of put together some of the things that might not be occurring this year to get to a bit of a baseline. We put out our guide, which we feel good about, and then later this year, look for us to give a multi-year perspective on where the business can go. As we sit in the trenches today, we're looking to be incrementally better every day. And that's the first step. And as we get that credibility, notably around this 2024 year guidance, we'll look to continue that journey to further points. But Ryan?

Hey, Simeon, just a couple quick follow up on the cost. Hey, welcome to the follow up, just a second. So on the cost, on the 150, that cost is out. So we made the tough call and never easy. Some 400 team members not with the company anymore. So that's in the run. That's not an ethereal number in terms of how we're thinking about the organization. And then as you think about what we need to do, you've heard Ryan's points, but in terms of actual physical initiatives on the ground, you're gonna see a renewed emphasis on the up and down the street pro from our organization this year. I think it's an area where we had our eye off the ball a little bit but I also think it's an area where on a relative right to win in terms of the capabilities of the team members we have out in the field and referring to our CAMS or our outside sales team members and our CPPs who are inside the store pros, that's an area that they're excited to go after.

So I think some of it goes to culture and focus. And the good news is, as I meet the team members in the field, you see that 90-year heritage. You see men and women who sell auto parts who want to win. And so we need to unlock that by making sure that what we do as a company, and from my time in the service, call it the inverted pyramid, that we are geared not as a headquarter-centric organization, but we're a field-first organization. And if you spend time listening to the customers, they'll give you the feedback on what it takes to be successful. If you take time empowering our frontline associates, that's a key route forward for us. Additionally, it's the blended box model. We, I think, looked at different paths to heaven as a company in the past and didn't put the emphasis on the blended box. You can see, demonstrably, in the industry where the blended box works. It works in terms of the breadth of customers you could serve. It works in terms of the flow-through you get, when you get marginal sales in the same location. So that's really where we're going as a company in the future.

Yes. So we'll revisit with you at midyear if that process goes through, and then you'll see the breakout proceeds the RemainderCo and our plan for disposition of proceeds.

Yes. Great question. So I'll start with the team members. We've got to make sure that our team members feel like they're valued. And if you looked at where we'd invested dollars, it hadn't been on the frontline. And so that goes to wage rates, that goes to what their bonus programs are, that goes to training programs and certification so that both their capabilities and sense of pride are amplified. So we've got a significant body of work underway, focused on the frontline. And we're seeing reduction in turnover. So that's been a key piece. Secondarily, as we spent money, and this goes to the SG&A takeout, we would engage in marketing programs that were expensive, that didn't bear fruit. And so we're pivoting anything we do around being successful with the customer in the market as it relates to the customers' feedback, product availability. So we would hear from stature of customers who were their first call, and they say, hey, if I call you first, but you don't have the product, so you are literally driving me to call somebody else. And so we've had a lot of work going on in product availability. Our in-stocks are up over 200 basis points this year. We -- if you look at our aggregate inventory, it's down, and Ryan has talked to some of the disposition. But notably, we put $300 million of incremental nutritive inventory that our customers are asking for. We're capturing those demand signals so that we have better in-stocks. We want to further that in terms of how we cover on the up and down the street pro with our outside sales team members, and there's a tremendous amount of work there. I didn't touch on this in the script, but within our org structure, our pro efforts were bifurcated in different parts of the company. And now, those are solidified. And so we go forward as one team as we think about our pro. So it's not -- if you call the store and you're the same customer, you get a different set of interactions that you might get if you're working with our outside team. So that's going on a much more definitive basis. And the last thing I'll touch on in the merchandising side of the house is reaching out to our vendors, both to ensure that from a cost position and a product availability and a prioritization for innovation that we're where we need to be. But I think important for everybody to know, as we talk to the vendors, that feedback is also overwhelmingly positive around supporting Advance. There is a strong desire to see Advance thrive, and you can say, hey, that's -- the vendors should have that perspective. But that works for us. The idea that we've got this collective coalition between the vendors, between our engaged frontline, between customers who want to buy from us, we just need to have our fundamentals right in terms of that product, price and the delivery all working together.

Yes. So great question. Thank you, Bret. On the WMS, we'll be done with that this year. So high jump is our WMS system. So we'll have that in all of what will be our replenishment DCs. The second part of the journey, in terms of creating market hubs, and you see this model probably elsewhere in the industry. We can use our smaller DCs to perform in this fashion. And we've had a journey in supply chain, but not a definitive one in terms of creating a unified single supply chain. What we had in the past, we had cross-banner replenishment. But what we were doing is basically asking 38 DCs to function as full on replenishment notes, basically to provide every product to a store requiring that product. And some products, some DCs don't have the size and capability to do that, 38 is far too many for my past life in terms of where you'd expect your vendors to ship into. So the idea is we create a national network of larger DCs. We're not ready to definitively -- to define that exact number. But you can look at other companies, and sometimes you'll see 8, 10, 12, 14 large DCs to give you that national footprint. And then market hubs, both the conversion of our -- of the smaller DCs, we'll add additional market hubs beyond that because I think that, that flow model works. And so if you take those two together and look at the footprint, there are probably some additional large DC efforts that we need to undertake, and we'll describe that more in terms of here's our exact number. Here's where we happen today. Here's where we might be a new one. That will all be coming in the coming months. But the key for today is that we are putting a flag in the ground to have a unified supply chain, one flow path, one set of systems, and an easier interaction for our vendors to work with us.

I'll just say it's material, right? So if anybody who's been in logistics, if you're running two supply chains and everybody else or your previous endeavors as one supply chain, it's just -- it's just not the path forward for us. So as we will explain with you, we think there's material moneys that come out of the system. And then importantly, for our customers, the product flows better. The availability goes up. And so there's kind of a one, two combo there that we'll describe more at a later date.

Yes. So this is my third time combining supply chains in companies, and we want it to be sooner rather than later. But it's a multiyear endeavor. I think that's just the practical reality of what happens. So can we shave time off? Absolutely, and we will do that with the proceeds. But this isn't something that this group should expect to be done in '24. We'll extend into '25, and probably into '26 as we do this. And in particular, there's both the existing set of efforts, which is what we'll do with the first 38. Where we have to add net new market hubs or where -- if we look at our larger DC structure, where we need to put in a large-scale new DC, those efforts take time. I think, the thing for everybody here to know is that journey is beginning. And our first market hub conversion is going on. And so -- and early indications are, this is going to be a really good thing for us. We will move as fast as we can because we know that the end state creates value for the customers and improve the profitability of the customer. And so more to come, but know that our supply chain team is dedicated. They're focused and they're already focused.

Thank you.

Ryan is exactly right. And one way to illustrate, and why we're focused on the blended box, if you look at revenue per store, and you think about us as a kind of a 1.7, 1.8. And you can look at other folks who have higher numbers. When you add revenue to a store, $100,000, $200,000, $300,000, that money drops to the bottom line at an incrementally larger level, right? So you've got your fixed costs covered. So that's a key for us. So I think your question is a good one, Seth. We need to do both. And as we do both, we see the path forward to continued success. And now that, as we look at where Advance is, we don't sit and say, hey, let's benchmark off the other guys. Our goal as an organization is to be incremental, to be incrementally better every day, take care of our customers, look after our team members. And I've seen this movie before in other industries, in fact, in my last organization, and that's a recipe for success. And we'll look for that from us, and then look for us later this year to provide a perspective on what that might look like after a couple of years.

So I'll start, Chris, and Ryan can -- yes. Thanks, Chris. I'll start, and Ryan can jump in. The independents are an important part of the business, right? They could serve geographies we can't get to. They can serve end markets where their depth of capability exceeds ours. So this isn't a play around exiting the independent arena. This is one where, at times, we were exuberant in terms of adding independents, and as we looked at the sort of balance of trade, if you will, in terms of the benefit to each party, it wasn't working for us. In some cases, it wasn't working for the independent either. And so we looked at the aggregate number, and there are about 100 folks that at the end of the day, that didn't make sense for us to continue that relationship. And as we did that, it's a good move for us. Ryan can talk about the impact. But it's also been received well in the independent network. The independents who are good at what they do, and by the way, they exhibit a lot of pride in their business. They don't want folks representing the Carquest name and doing it in a manner inconsistent with what our customers would expect. So it's been a well-received adjustment, and we're happy with the independence that we have.

Yes, I'll just jump in there. The supply chain transformation is a big one. I think Ryan's got our guide exactly where it should be for '24. We could raise it in '25. And we'll feel either through the proceeds from Worldpac or just as the business performed better and we're able to deploy more, again, back to the previous questions, if we can accelerate or wherever we can accelerate the supply chain consolidation, we'll do it.

So we'll give you, in the coming months, a complete breakout of all the facilities. I'm a little reticent to be more specific. Obviously, we've got team members in these DCs. And if their DC is going to be converted into a market hub as we go through that plan, we want to make sure we're staying abreast of keeping them in the loop. So we'll break out the differences. In general, the smaller DCs that are more -- that are appropriate for the market hub Conversion K for Carquest, the larger DCs from the Advance model, there's a substantial size footprint difference. We largely think we have the large DC network that we need. Again, we may refine that a little bit in terms of what that national footprint might look like.

Yes, Michael, good job threading some questions and answers together. The 8 to 12 to 14, that's my experience in the past life, right? If we hired some of the firms that do the work on setting up national infrastructures, and you say, hey, I want to have a nationwide distribution network. That's what they're going to tell you. And that's what I've seen, and that's what I've lived. And so I think that's an appropriate range for us. And yes, we largely think we've got the facilities today. Thank you.

Yes. If we came to you and said, hey, we got to put 10 new 500 to 1 million square foot DCs up in the United States, you guys can do the math on what those buildings cost and how long that takes. We're trying to do this both more quickly and efficiently using the facilities we have. And a national model might come out and say, gosh, the DC you have might be marginally better if it was located an hour this way or that way That's a little bit of the trade-offs we'll make, which is minor in terms of the efficiency drag. But in exchange for the speed and the overall cost effectiveness, that's the right way to go.

Yes. So I'll make the math easy. The $150 million is out. We took out $150 million. And then we said, hey, we're going to take $50 million of that, and it goes in the frontline, for wages, bonuses and training. There's an incremental amount, roughly double that, that comes from -- some of it are our ordinary course. So we've got our merit plan for the year. But some of it comes from sunsetting. We had some HR programs out there that we spend money on, that weren't directed towards the frontline. So we canceled those programs and we're putting those dollars and do just bonuses and train. So it's no net -- it's no incremental drag to the company. It's a better use of funds that we were putting in the right place.

We'll start with the second question on market share. There's lots of good companies. There's lots of people that we compete with every day. And you played -- have some have some notable examples. But there are plenty of smaller companies out there who sell auto parts so we know that we've got to earn our keep every day. We've put out our guide. We think that's modest. And we know that our engine, as we restarted with this turnaround, we'll take a minute to get a full head of steam. But the industry fundamentals are very good. This is a disciplined industry. By the way, it's an industry that even with the big players, there's still room and runway to grow. By the way, there is just growth that occurs naturally. And so we won't be a share taker, but we're -- first step is to be a shareholder, and I mean that in terms of market share. So that's what we're looking to do. And we don't spend the day thinking. Any time you put two companies to get together, the first thing you got to think about is what are you going to do with the logistics infrastructure and so we let two different models exist for a long time and then had sort of a patch solution. And what we're telling the market today is the right answer for auto parts distribution is to have one single national network. And that's what we're doing. And so you won't be able to identify facilities in terms of that's a blue versus red EG Carquest versus Advance. We're Advance Auto Parts, and we will have a national distribution network. The second thing is the idea of using this market hub. And I think you see that probably. It's -- I think it's a good way to get product closer to the more SKUs closer to the customer to be more responsive. And I think that's a function -- that's a bit of an evolution. I think the customers' expectations have increased in terms of what can you get me in a short time frame. We want to be participated in that, and that market makes that happen.

Thanks, Brian.

So the cost takeout was broad-based. So no functional area was exempt. And if I go back to an earlier comment, I think we had a bit of a headquarters-centric approach to running the business. And with that, you end up with low in your corporate infrastructure. I believe in the inverted pyramid, the idea that we need to be field first, and corporate needs to be lean. Corporate needs to be everybody who sits in a corporate seat needs to be supporting the field. And so we went across the functional areas. I think notably, marketing was an area where there were more significant cuts than in the other areas because we invested in marketing programs that didn't have a yield. And so we view that cost takedown not only as necessary, but one that didn't dampen our sales, if anything, I think we've got the opposite going out as we cleared out some bureaucracy. We booked at processes that were inefficient, and we're empowering the front line. And as we take dollars and put it in the front line and reduce turnover and create energy, those team members feel like they're heard and supported in a way that wasn't occurring.

Are you saying more than what actually is being reported today?

Yes. No, I think what we're talking about today is what we've shared today are the restatements that we plan to see in the Form 10-K. We'll have the Form 10-K out in short order. It should be within that extension period of time.

Thanks, Scott.

Max, we didn't get the question. Can you say one more time, please?

Yes. So we're doing that real time. And as we complete this -- our inventory system that comes online, it will get better from where it sits today. So I want to put a definitive number on it, but that journey continues. We do get customer feedback that says, hey, I feel better about your product availability. We get feedback from our world as well. But I don't want to put a pinpoint but more to come, but material progress that has been noted by customer and field team members.

So I'll start with private label. We think private label is an important dimension of the business. And we've got some great brands that we control. Die Hard, I think, is a premier name. The Carquest name. And think about Carquest as it relates to our platinum brakes product. So we've seen growth in private brands and we want private brands to be an important part of the portfolio. I think something we've done is, in the past, sometimes our exuberance as it relates to who we work with, we may have had suppliers not in a position to fully represent what our needs are. We've come through those issues and our merchant and sourcing teams are making sure that we're not only getting high-quality products but we're getting it in the quantities that we need. On the pricing front, a couple of things here. One, this is a disciplined industry. And I think that's important, the conduct between the players in terms of how the active customers. I would describe as rational. But customer feedback is an important dimension. I would say we need to be in the ZIP code of the customers' needs on price. But availability is important, as is speed to service. And that's something that we're focused on. We know that if you've got a -- if you're a pro and you've got a car on a lift, you've got a Chevy Tahoe that needs brake rotors, we've got to get them to you expeditiously. So we're focused on that speed of service, which is something we measure. But as it relates to price, we'll be where the market sort of demands.

