Shankh Mitra
Welltower Inc. (WELL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

You snuck in three questions. Let me see if I can understand or remember all of them. First is we laid out our strategy of how we see investing in the senior living space, which is high price point, very affluent micro market, high acuity product, if you will, where we provide a service that can be actually charged accordingly and hire people and pay them appropriately. So that’s one strategy.

On the other side of the barbell, we went from no acuity and build out a business over the last eight -- six years, five years, six years on this wellness housing side, where it’s much lower price point, but almost no services. So it’s sort of from an acuity standpoint and that provides obviously much higher NOI margin.

That’s the two business segment that we know how to do well and make money and that’s where we are. I’m not suggesting that anything in between is not something that is right or wrong or anything like that, but just not something that we’re focused on.

Going back to your question, where that 60% or so margin sits in that wellness housing spectrum, I will say it sits towards the upper end, probably, the upper half, but no means and aberration, right? So you think about, I think about this business from mostly a mid-50%s to mid-60% margin business.

Your last question, how has the growth has been in the wellness housing? Historically, it has been growing, I would say, mid-to-high single-digit. In 2023, the NOI growth for our wellness housing portfolio on a same-store basis has been 12.2%. In fourth quarter alone, that was 13.1%. Hope I remember all your questions.

Thank you, Jeff, for the question. I’ll start probably with one of my favorite mongerisms, which is knowing what you don’t know is actually a lot more useful than being brilliant. So I want to make sure you understand that, we have no hubris of what we don’t know. So I’m, frankly speaking, I’m pretty surprised, for many months, I’ve been reading about this in research reports, talking to investors, that sort of this idea that if you had three -- two good years of numbers, obviously, that has to go down pretty meaningfully. Frankly speaking, I don’t personally understand that.

I will tell you that we don’t know how this year is going to completely play out. We give you our best guess that Tim described to you. It is possible that we have another year of that growth rate that’s sort of similar to last two years, possible if we have a strong summer sort of leasing season, right? But I think we’re going to have many great years in front of us with double-digit NOI growth.

Now, with -- whether this year, next year, this quarter, next quarter, I don’t know what chips will fall, but as we think about taking this portfolio to where it should be leased with our opinion, as we have told you, that we’ll be very disappointed if we go back to pre-COVID.

There is no reason we can’t even go back to where 2015 levels were, because if you look forward next few years, you will see demand-supply has been significantly better and our platform build out should help us get well past that. We should have double-digit NOI growth for years to come. I hope that sort of answers your question.

We have no hubris of sort of knowing what we don’t know. But we think it’s also this idea that, because our business has done so well for last two years, it has to go down, it has to meaningfully decelerate, it sorts of reminds me that, perhaps, we should have more humility of what we don’t know. We’ll see how this plays out. We’ll see what market gives us. Thank you.

Jonathan, let me see if I can answer that question. We will not give guidance. Our shop is not designed to buy stuff. We only grow if we think we can grow to add value on a partial basis for existing investors. So, if that means it’s $3 billion, it’s $3 billion. That means it’s $300 million, it’s $300 million and that means if it’s $8 billion, it’s $8 billion. That’s sort of where we are.

Having said that, if you look at the page seven of our slide deck, we see there’s a massive amount of loans in the Senior Housing space that are rolling. That’s just a U.S. number. We’re also seeing opportunities in both the U.K. and Canada, similar ideas and there is not enough credit in the system to reify this. So we think the opportunity set, obviously, in front of us is going to be very robust.

Speaking of pipeline right now, I want to reiterate the comment that I have made in my prepared remarks. We have never been this busy in Q1. As you understand, there is a seasonality of the deal business as well, right?

People work really, really hard into the year end to close out the year and Q1 is usually very, sort of, you don’t see a lot of activity, activity starts to pick up, obviously, in Q2 and then that’s obviously translated into heavy second half.

And that normal seasonality, we haven’t seen, and perhaps, because of the debt curve that we’re talking about, perhaps, it’s because of another thing that Nikhil mentioned, which is the interest caps that are coming up and regional banks were nowhere to be found, right?

So, in that context, I think, we’re going to have a record year again. But who knows? If we don’t see the opportunities to invest, we won’t. But the pipeline remains robust, it’s visible, it’s actionable and we can see massive amount of value creation coming through that.

Tayo?

Tayo, we can hear you. Hello?

Tayo, we can hear you.

That -- I believe that the Senior Housing loan situation we’re talking about is the traditional Senior Housing product. You can, for some lender, can sort of define this as multifamily, some can Senior Housing. So, there’s no way to specifically know.

We play into the mid-market segment of that active adult, the wellness housing segment. You think about there are four large players in that space that we know of is that there are others, but the four major ones that we know of, Clover, Calamar, Sparrow and Affinity, and all four of them are existing Welltower partners today.

As I have mentioned before, I believe in going deep, not going broad. If we find more opportunities, we will obviously see how that stacks up against our growth potentials, et cetera, but we are definitely focused on growing our business. And I think you would say starting this business six years ago to about 25,000 units today, we’re doing a pretty good job of it.

But growth for growth’s sake is something that I just can’t get my head around. Our job is to create long-term shareholder value, compounding on a partial basis what we’re after. So, we’ll see if we can do it, but I will be optimistic that wellness housing over a period of time will become a very significant portion of Welltower portfolio.

Yeah.

Austin, I just want to make sure I understand your question. A lot of opportunity that we are seeing are driven by current existing owners’ credit situation, whether that’s rate caps, whether that’s LTV, whether that’s DSCR, whether that’s refi. So it’s driven by credit situations on their end.

How we execute that on our end could be credit or could be equity and vast majority of what we have done is equity opportunities. But we are interested in the private credit side as an equity owner. I’ve said this many, many times that we’re just not lenders. We are owner of those properties at the last dollar basis where we’re credit stands, right. So that’s how we think about it.

In other words, that we’re very comfortable taking back the keys if the buyer decides to -- the owner decides to do so. However, vast majority of our execution on our end is on the equity side, though we remain very interested for the right opportunities on the -- in the -- to play in the credit stack.

However, I will tell you, we never loan against assets at a last dollar value at a given location for a product that we do not want to own. That is not what we do. So that’s something that’s very interesting for you to sort of think through.

Yeah. I think from a competition perspective, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, most of the transactions -- all of the transactions that we’ve executed on, they have been privately negotiated directly with the sellers. So it’s not that we’re participating in auctions or anything like that and a big part of that is there is really no liquidity in the market. So we’re not seeing any competition really. And then, I think, remind me again, what was your second question?

Yeah.

Yeah. Mike, so my question, my answer to Nick’s question was focused on Senior Housing development, as in what do you understand as a regular Senior Housing product. Affinity or wellness housing, these are apartments, right? These are not where care gets delivered. So that -- these are housing products. These are rental housing products.

How can it be? I’ll tell you, probably if you think about it, Nikhil said, average age is eight years. The portfolio size is 25. So just call it three, four starts a year, something like that would be something that I would expect. But we don’t know, it depends on where the product is year-over-year. What the current pipeline is. But something like that can be expected over time.

John, I’ll just add that if you look at the coming out of the pandemic, average age and acuity went up right just coming out of the pandemic and sort of first three months, six months, something like that month where we’ve seen the acuity has gone up and the average age has gone up.

As we sort of things have normalized, I will say we’re hearing more and more comments from our operating partners that average age is coming down and length of stay because of that acuity is coming down, but length of stay is going up because of that.

So, Mike, let me try to answer that question. I was just looking at this a couple of days ago. Interestingly, as we looked at the fourth quarter data is, obviously, we’re talking about the context sort of seasonal trends that we have seen in fourth quarter, specifically looking at that, both move-ins and move-outs were better. So we have seen better move-in rates, move-in trends, and we have seen better move-out trends. So that sort of both created this unusual seasonal pattern.

As you have noted, not only the quarter was kind of interesting, or frankly, confounding in a positive way from a seasonality standpoint, but what happened intra-quarter was even more confounding because as you go sort of get through more deeper and deeper into winter, we see the business slows down just seasonally and this year exactly opposite happened.

So what’s the reason? Just from a pure math perspective, as I said, both move-ins and move-outs are better, but obviously, we’re not projecting that in the future, but we’ll see how it plays out as we get through the year.

Yeah. So, look, we have a very large portfolio, it’s hard to speak in generalities, and obviously, across three countries. But if you look at all of the industry data that you will see, our portfolio has meaningfully outperformed both in rate growth, as well as occupancy growth. But what’s new about that? But you can probably look at the data and others kind of decide that might get to that point.

But as I said, we don’t know what the future will give us. Our -- what we endeavor, what I promise to you that will put 200% effort to outperform the market and that’s what we are trying to do. And so far, what I’ve seen, I mean, John mentioned a stat that, if we do achieve our NOI growth guidance in the shop portfolio this year, there’s no guarantee we will. But if we do, that’ll be 75% compounded growth over three years. There is -- I don’t believe there’s any precedence of that in a large broad sort of a portfolio. So we are meaningfully performing the market and that gap is widening and I think it will continue to widen.

Let me try to answer that question. So fourth quarter, if you look at, I’m actually pretty very pleased with pricing trends. As you know, that we have a lot of the portfolio sort of radically turned through the year, right. So we have -- and so if you just look at the Sunrise situation that I talked about, RevPOR growth was up 6.8%. That’s a very, very strong number and with that kind of occupancy growth, you don’t expect that kind of numbers.

But put that aside. Let’s just think about what next year’s look like and we passed the Jan 1. A lot of operators in Jan 1, a lot of operators’ sort of have moved from Jan 1 to the February 1. I think I talked about that two years ago. Just not -- just the after holidays sort of moved a little bit out of that.

So just generally speaking, talk about the half of the portfolio that sort of rolling in the Q1 specifically rather than just talking Jan 1, I would say existing customer rent increases has been relatively in the same ballpark of last year, but probably 100 basis points to 150 basis points lower. This generally feels right around that level.

So, if it was 10 last year, it’s 9 this year, something like that. I’m not saying don’t hold me specific. Some operators have done more than 10 last year. I’m saying generally speaking, in that range of probably 100 basis points, 150 basis points lower.

And we will see what the rest of the portfolio does as we go through the year. There’s also remember RevPOR is not just a function of ECRI, our existing customer rent increases, but it’s also a function of sort of market rent, right? What that your mark-to-market and we will see, we don’t know? Usually speaking, market rent are lower in Q1 and sort of goes up from the summer months and we’ll see how this all plays out.

There’s a math aside. We feel that the second part of your question, which is a brilliant question, sort of thinking about in this kind of occupancy, just call it mid-80s occupancy. What is that sort of efficient frontier pricing versus occupancy? That question is hard to answer on a conference call, but I will tell you what you are going after is a very important one, because how operating leverage, because of operating leverage, how your incremental margins work.

While it is in the late 70s, early 80s, it is obvious that you should go after the rate, not the occupancy, that may not be true in the mid-80s where your optimized level could be some occupancy, some rates. We’ll see how this plays out, but we are -- we think it’s our guests as we sit here today and nothing but a guest that will be largely in the same ballpark of close to double-digit revenue growth that we have seen last year.

Well, let me try to answer that question. The second part is an easier one. If all we do is we end up at 91% occupancy, which is sort of 2015 achieved, then we frankly speaking, we didn’t add a lot of value. Because if you think about it, I don’t know, just pick a number, two years, three years, whatever your number of years is, demand-supply, I think, you understand, starts to get materially better starting 2025, 2026, right, sort of. And the delivery schedule, if you look at it, you know what the stocks are, which is not much, right? You can see the demand-supply imbalance gets really interesting next year and the year after, right?

So at least we can say that, because we don’t know, if there’s other people that without our knowledge is building. It’s unlikely, but we don’t know. But at least we can sort of see next two years with a reasonable clarity and we don’t believe that friction vacancy of this business is 9%, right? John is that it?

So do we believe that we’ll end up at 91%? I’ll be very disappointed if that’s the case, but we shall see what the market gives us. What was the first part of your question, Ron, that I missed?

Oh! Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah. So, look, I can’t speak for others, right, clearly, right? What do I know about others? My promise to you and our fellow shareholders have always been that we will put 100% effort to outperform the market. So far, we have done it, right? I don’t think Q4 numbers will be much different and I think our hope will be that we will continue to do so. My confidence in our ability to outperform the average of the industry is widening. I think that gap is widening and my confidence is increasing. But we still have to -- this is February 14th. We have to see what the year gives us.