Shyam Kambeyanda
ESAB Corporation (ESAB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So first good morning. Always good to hear from you, Tami. Well, first thank you. I think we did have a great quarter both on the growth side and on the margin side of the business, really proud of how the team has performed, thrilled that we finally saw us peak out the positive volume in North America and continue our momentum in the rest of the world. To answer your question, we did really like our margin performance in the fourth quarter and how we finished out the year. As you know, as you look out your window, there's many things that can come at you, headwinds or tailwinds as we look at 2028. What we've always said is that our team is very confident in delivering the margin growth targets that we've set within the business and then focusing on augmenting our organic growth with inorganic opportunities and acquisitions. I mentioned earlier, we've got a really strong funnel. So we feel that both in 2024 and the rest of the time, we really have a chance to accelerate the growth line within organic opportunities, but continue to keep the pace on how we see our margin expansion continue. So, bottom line, I think we're right where we need to be. And I think we're driving the ship forward with some momentum.

Yes. I think I mentioned we're off to a good start to the first quarter. But I think we did have weather in the Scandinavian region of Europe and also North America that was a bit severe. We've also had the Chinese New Year falls squarely in February. Then we expect Easter to land completely in the first quarter of this year as well. So there's a bit of what I'd call headwind that is just related things outside the control of the business this year versus last year. And so, you're seeing some days adjusted plus holidays kind of kick into that first quarter number. And then the rest of the year kind of shapes out the way we see it today. Now, what it doesn't include is any acquisitions that we make in that period and that would obviously be positive upside to both growth and our intent obviously is to acquire businesses that are accretive to margin. So in both ways, we expect to sort of continue that positive momentum.

Thanks. Thanks, Tami.

Yes. First, we were also very happy with how both of our regions performed and really all across that Gas Control and across almost all regions which sort of gives us great confidence as how people are inculcating EBX into their daily standard work and how our teams are sort of working towards what is our ultimate goal that we've set up for 2028.

I did mention we had a few good guys come at us in the fourth quarter. I mentioned a little bit of favorability of a couple of million with FX and about $1 million in sort of marketing and some other activities that pushed out to the quarter. And then Kevin briefly mentioned, we're going to continue to invest as we drive equipment sales across all geographies of about $15 million of additional investment. And so those are the factors that you should probably look at and then take a look at the guide as we go into next year. We absolutely believe that now as the flywheel is turning at ESAB, we can take some of that dollars and invest it back in the business with some of the activities that will fundamentally reshape us over the next three years, Mig.

Yes, do you want to take, Kevin?

Yeah. So thanks, David. Great -- good to hear your voice, as always. So a couple of things. We did lap in Q4 some America pricing. But that being said, as Kevin mentioned, we've gone out with some additional pricing in the first quarter in both of our regions. When we looked at Europe, we did see some -- we've talked about this before. We see steel prices moving very differently in different regions. And we did see some deflationary steel prices, especially in Europe that sort of allowed us to do something different in our pricing strategies in Europe for the fourth quarter, but we have done some additional pricing activities in the first quarter.

But that being said, what we were really happy about in Europe was the expansion in margins about 200 basis points. And if you remember 1 thing that we have said is that ESAB is focused on a net price number. So when we see deflation and what we do with the marketplace, we want to be net positive on the price line as we move forward, and that was very evident in how we performed in the fourth quarter. I hope that answers the question.

Yeah. That's right. That's right. And I think the other piece that we -- the other piece we mentioned is that there's a bit of noise in the first quarter with weather, with where the holidays are landing. So you've got a days impact as well that comes at you for the first quarter, David.

Yeah. Very similar to our strategy in the past, bolt-on acquisitions, keeping our debt level in that 2% range, and driving businesses and acquiring businesses that are accretive, improve our geographic strategic positioning and filling out product line gaps. We've got a few that have a chance to get over the goal line. And so as a result, we're feeling quite good that none of our guidance does not include any acquisitions that could happen and that would be a pleasant upside to anything that we've guided to today.

Yeah, what I'd say one in one kind of a scenario is that there's probably a couple in there size of therapy and a couple in there the size of Ohio.

Hi, Nathan.

Yes. So let me take the question on marketing and I'll hand it over to Kevin for the capital. So on the marketing side as you know we've launched several new products and our intent is to continue to create marketing structures and advertising for these particular products around the globe as we begin to see these products into the marketplace.

The other aspect of it is incentive plans for our sales teams as they begin to sell a different mix and encouraging them to learn and be able to sort of competently sell the product line that we have. And last but not least we are looking at augmenting our marketing strategy a bit differently and nothing much to share now but I hope by the third quarter we can share with you how we'll begin to separate ourselves on that particular piece and really create something special for the long-term at ESAB. And so that's the dollars that we're talking about there. Kevin, do you want to give a bit of color on capital?

Yes. First we're really happy with how PLS is being executed by our teams. We continue to see opportunity to refine our product line our SKUs to serve our customers well. So that being said a big chunk of the PLS, yes, is behind us but we continue to expect to do PLS in some of our other regions a little more focused in Europe and a bit more focus in the Asia region as well around PLS for us.

But that being said I think we are at a point now that we can look at a net positive growth number coming out of PLS where we've done some of the heavy lifts and now we're focused on growing as well as sort of refining our product line. But I could tell you that PLS for us now is standard work. We're looking at it with the growth lens as well. And so as a result our teams are focused on driving growth with some set of customers as well as making sure our product line continues to get refined.

Yes. Yes, Chris I think I may not have mentioned this. We sort of view our businesses by daily sales rate and we also look at how things are performing across all of our regions. And what we've seen is that there is a stability in those rates. So nothing is sort of shifting downwards. That being said sort of year-over-year comparables are getting a little tighter. And so the way to think about it is that for a fact the Germanic region in Europe is seeing a lot of stress and has been seeing a lot of stress for a few quarters now.

The rest of Europe seems to be holding okay and that's what we see and with a significant amount of obviously positive momentum in the Middle East and in India in particular. And the U.K. has also sort of seen a bit of stress but our position in the U.K. is quite strong and we continue to gain share.

On China, we've sort of seen some investment come in from the government. And as a comment that I made earlier around energy transition that's happening and things especially as people are sort of creating storage spaces for LNG and other aspects that have sort of seen as sort of performed better than what we've sort of heard the commentary out in the marketplace around China.

I'd also tell you if you're from -- if I'm repeating myself, I apologize. But we play in the top tier of the Chinese market. And as a result don't really feel the peaks and troughs that maybe the others are feeling in China. The space that we're in continues to be a space that China continues to invest in and we're benefiting from it.

Yes. Kevin and I start the year with the set of projects that we have in our pocket. And depending on where the market goes, we accelerate or move them along on schedule. There are a few projects that we have planned. So, absolutely, we have about $10 million in our guidance for some of that and we may accelerate that if we see any issues in the market. But otherwise that's our intent.

Yes. Yes a lot of it depends also on acquisitions bolt-on acquisitions that we make that will then allow us to do some additional consolidation that's the way to think about it.

Thank you.

Thanks. Thanks Rob.

Yes, so on the Gas Control business, we -- you're absolutely right, we did see low double-digit growth. Where we saw a significant amount of growth was on the energy transition piece of the business. So, energy markets whether it be oil and gas or anything associated with energy, we saw a nice uptick in our Gas Control business on that particular front. And then continued momentum on Specialty and Med Gases with sort of investments happening across in terms of upgrades. So, those were really the highlights there.

Where we did see a bit of headwind was again in the market in Germany. Our Gas Control business in Europe actually has a significant amount of German exposure. And so that was a drag on that particular business. But the industrial spec and medical side everywhere else saw some nice growth. And obviously, we have some nice growth opportunities also set up for 2024.

Yes. We've not sort of split out the two to talk about them separately in our guide. But what I'd say is that we're obviously coming off some really hot numbers on the Gas Control side. So, I expect that to be a bit more muted in 2024. And then you can do the math to the averages as you look at our FABTECH business as well.

Yes. A couple of aspects. And I think we mentioned it before as well. We think that our material planning and production planning side of the business has some opportunity where AI could be a significant asset. And that's where we've been focused both with our data mining tools that we've used in the past along with now AI. We are sort of looking at some other projects but nothing that's sort of baked enough to talk about. But we do expect to continue to lean in to these emerging technologies and trends that could fundamentally help reshape an enterprise. Kevin, did I miss something there?

Yes. There's no industry data per se out there, Mig that sort of clearly points to any of that. I think for us, it's been around execution the mix shift. I think one thing that we've obviously mentioned in the past is that ESAB has primarily been a consumables company. And in the last couple of years, we've really got our equipment line coming in. And then, even on the gas equipment side, I think we've done a really nice job getting our industrial products back in front of our customers and focusing on growth segments.

So I think the best way for you to look at how ESAB thinks about it is that we're focused on end markets that are growing faster than others. We're focused on customers that have better growth opportunities than others, and we're focused on products that provide us with a better margin and then also solve some of our customers' biggest challenges. We think if we do all of those right, what you just mentioned about share gain just happens. So I think as a team, we're focused on the process. I think the results will begin to show themselves.

Yes. We're obviously quite excited about the progress that we've made in automation. For us, as you know, the business is about 10% of our business and growing quite nicely. We expect the growth to continue next year. We think there's sort of a double-digit opportunity of growth in the automation space for ESAB. So, it will be a larger share of our business.

But as I mentioned before we're not looking for big chunks here. We're looking for process. We're looking for workflow that's a bit focused and less around material handling that sort of drives large volumes through ESAB. But I think the richness and the conversion on profit we really like.

The other piece around Cobots, we are seeing momentum. We saw another quarter of really strong growth about close to 90% growth in that particular segment. At our leadership meeting, we had the automation team talk and present about the opportunities. What I can tell you, is that there's obviously excitement within our team and also on the customer base, but the volumes are still low, but the opportunity exists, and our solution set and the way our teams are going about selling it clearly has momentum.

Thanks Mig