Shyam Reddy
BlueLinx Holdings Inc. (BXC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Let me take the first part of that question, and I'll turn it over to Andy to dive into the SG&A aspect. So first of all, the answer to your question is, yes, in the context of both reducing our operating costs while also improving the customer experience. Ultimately, the primary goal is to provide the most -- provide the best customer and supplier experience in the 2-step distribution space for building products. And the first phase of this, which we're embarking on in 2024, includes transportation, which will absolutely reduce our logistics costs as it relates to delivering to the end -- to the customer where and when they need the product. So it could be to the actual lumber yard, home center or it could actually be a multifamily or job site delivery, but in any event, which we do today, but in a more efficient and cost-effective manner.

And secondly, we're moving forward on the customer -- the direct customer enhancement piece as well with the e-commerce platform. Our plan is to start a dedicated launch in the coming months with a pilot program with a few customers and a few branches. And once we've built that out and feel good about it, the idea would be to scale it across the entire enterprise. And as I said earlier, reduce the number of touch points between our customer and us, give them better visibility ultimately into inventory, have the ability to order for multiple locations from multiple branches and so on and so forth. So ultimately, the idea is to provide an outstanding or exceptional customer experience.

So look, as the quarter progresses and we've seen it over the last few weeks that there is improvement that's flowing through the P&L. As we move into March and the season, we expect the seasonality -- the positive seasonality aspects to kick in and provide us with opportunities to improve on the challenging headwinds we faced in January. I can't give you specifics, obviously, from a number standpoint. But the trend has started and we expect things to continue to normalize as we head into the season.

No. I would say that what we're hearing directly from our customers and our suppliers for that matter is consistent with what we're all hearing publicly on the R&R front.

Sure. Yes. So basically, we've got a great group of strategic suppliers we're working with to expand our geographic reach, a number of conversations that yet have to be made public, where we're looking to expand their product offerings in new markets, some of which would be opportunities for them where they're not otherwise located or alternatively result in the displacement of someone else who might already be there, hence, why I can't get into too much detail.

But the fact is I feel like we've got really, really good partnerships that are collaborative with our key suppliers that are allowing us to expand our geographic reach with them, which, again, gives us the ability to provide a scalable solution for all of our customers, including the national accounts that are located in multiple regions whether they be the one-step distributors or the home centers.

Yes. I would say that their views are generally consistent with what we're hearing in the marketplace. I mean builder sentiment did tick up, then again, the weather hit really dramatically and fiercely in January, which caused housing starts to be a lot lower than expected. So it's a little hit or miss. I think, quite frankly, we'll get a much better read next week when we're at the International Builder Show, where we'll actually have an opportunity to truly see how people are feeling post inclement weather in January.

But generally speaking, everyone, the smaller regional builders who are building more custom homes where folks may not be as rate sensitive, feel good, not as good as they have in the past. But at the same time, their sentiment is very much tempered in the near-term. But it is consistently viewed across the board, no matter who we talk to, that the second half will be better.

So with respect to the logistics rated -- logistics-oriented improvements such as, for example, the TMS-related work we're doing now. It's very straightforward in terms of getting better pricing on our freight, making sure that we're able to identify those opportunities where you have route optimization as well. And so there are very specific metrics we have that will allow us to generate the savings over the next few years and reduce our cost to serve. So that's pretty straightforward.

As it relates to e-commerce, obviously, that will be measured in the context of how much incremental volume we can pick up and greater share of wallet that we can grab from any given customer by making it easier to do business with us as opposed to anyone else. Ultimately, the idea is to get to the point where the value is all about the customer experience. And so the customer experience is top notch, then it makes it a lot easier for folks to do business with us and ultimately run more transactional volume through us. And that is the goal. And so we will have a number of measures around TLE growth, margin enhancement, mix shift and that's how we'll track it over time.

No. We're not doing any e-commerce today. Everything is done. It's done via directly with our sales teams.

And by the way, just in response to the last question that Jeff asked let me give a point of clarification. We actually do via the e-commerce platforms of our home centers or national accounts through their special order and other programs, there are orders done on their end that get processed through their portals that get fulfilled by us. So there is some iteration of e-commerce that we participate in. But as it relates to BlueLinx itself, this would be our foray into developing e-commerce platform for any customer to order through us. So in that context, the idea would be it's business to business. We haven't thought about I mean, in our current plans, there aren't any plans for an end user to be able to order through us.

And to the extent that does become part of the solution, those orders would still flow through our primary customers because we don't -- I mean, we care about our primary business customers. So to the extent, one of their customers has an opportunity to order it would be for the benefit of our primary customer. But right now, the e-commerce pilot we're exploring would be for our customers to order very efficiently through the platform and then it gets -- then the order gets fulfilled by the branch in that market.

So the appetite is there. It's an important part of our strategy. That said we're going to be very thoughtful and measured in our approach to make sure we're doing it the right way in the right market. As we think about the markets, there's a lot of gray space for us out West, right? So if you look at west of Denver, whether it's the Southwest, the West, there are a number of MSAs that we don't have a presence in. That said, we do service all 50 states either through long drives from certain facilities where the sale makes sense or alternatively through direct sales or reloads. So we do service all 50 states, but there are obviously more cost effective and efficient ways to do that in some of these MSAs.

And as we think about the opportunity and why we might greenfield in one location over another, you just -- we're very focused on housing starts, single-family housing starts as well as what the repair and remodel activity looks like. And then we take a look at whether or not the market is 2-step distribution friendly and in particular with respect to the products we carry and then we make decisions based on that opportunity. And then at the same time, we have a very strong set of private label products, both EWP and millwork, for example, as well as which are complemented by an incredibly strong structural products business. So between the 2, we feel like we have the ability to ramp up a greenfield probably more so than others maybe. And at the same time, again, just being very thoughtful about where we start and how we progress over time.

No, there would absolutely be a discussion because the way that it typically works, your vendor part -- our vendor partner relationships are tied to specific markets. And so most -- the markets we're looking at, if they're going to be 2-step distribution friendly and have strong housing starts, for instance, and most likely, in fact, in every market, there will be competitors there. The good thing is, unlike others, we actually have our own private label brands and a strong structural business that we can start with. And then with our existing suppliers have very strong partnerships, where we believe they would be supportive, if not out of the gate than over time.

I've actually already had a few conversations with a couple who said they would be very excited about supporting greenfield opportunities. So as the opportunities further ripen, those conversations will become more serious. But even if they take time, I'm very excited about the fact that we can start those projects with our private label brands as well as our structural business.

So let me take the M&A part, and then I'll let Andy comment on the capital allocation. But as it relates to capital allocation at a high level, we clearly take it seriously and are disciplined in our approach with returning capital to shareholders being one of the core elements of that strategy. As it relates to M&A, we still believe the outlook is good, which is why it's part of our growth strategy and it's in a very efficient way of developing new markets.

That said we are pursuing a roll-up strategy that rinse repeat given the dynamics of the 2-step distribution space. So our M&A March has historically been slow and will continue to be slow and steady and disciplined on the types of businesses we're targeting and ultimately acquiring and keeping an eye on the specialty product mix and geography as 2 of the primary drivers.

Now with the 2023 numbers in, as you might expect, the bid-ask spreads are continuing to compress. So from a valuation standpoint, the multiple should be based on 2023 EBITDA which will I think bring a sense of conformity logic and rationale back to valuations. So again, it remains an important part of our strategy. We're starting to see opportunities be more realistic over time without -- again, without compromising our desire to be opportunistic and buy companies at a level that makes sense for our business.
