Simon Meester
Terex Corporation (TEX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, thanks for the questions, Stan. Yeah, obviously, I'm in my fifth week on the job. So, I hope you can appreciate I'm still very much in listening-and-learning mode. We've built a great company over the past several years and we truly transformed the portfolio and significantly improved our ability to execute. We have a portfolio of market-leading businesses with strong operating margins, strong values and now with a strong balance sheet. So, obviously, a lot to play with as an incoming CEO. So that's why I said that I expect my focus to be mostly on the building out and accelerate our growth, but obviously, making sure that we maintain our operational discipline and remain focused on our efficiency and our agility.

We see many opportunities for organic growth, and we're demonstrating strong return on invested capital. And we are ballpark of $5 million business in a $34 billion addressable market. So, there is just a lot of opportunity for organic growth. But we're also looking at inorganic opportunities, anything that could expand our addressable markets or strengthen the portfolio, but obviously -- or widen our moat, but obviously, it needs to be actionable, it needs to be affordable and it needs to be financially accretive. And everything that we have on the table, we will force rank versus things like dividends or share buybacks, and then obviously, pick whatever provides best shareholder value. But I think that the good news, at least for me as incoming CEO, is that we have strong optionality versus perhaps where we were three to five years ago.

Thanks, Dan.

Yeah. And I would just add that all these -- Seth, all these businesses are operating at double digit margins. They're all strong performing businesses. So these are really nuances that we're talking about. MP's journey has been really remarkable over the last seven, eight years. And as I mentioned in my opening remarks on how they've been able to grow near double digits per year over the last seven, eight years, and now all of these businesses are strong double-digit businesses. So, this is really nuance for 2024.

Yeah, thanks for the question. Obviously, strong sequential bookings in AWP, up 59%. Still record high backlog, 3x historical levels. I would say for AWP, it's not really a demand issue, very strong underlying demand. Not all the negotiations with the nationals were booked in the fourth quarter. Some of that will drop in the first quarter. So, we expect some more strong bookings to come in the first quarter. Utilities within AWP is taking bookings for 2025. I would definitely say we have a strong order book. It's sticky. We don't see cancellations. It gives us a lot of confidence going into 2024.

Yeah. You got it right on the first -- on your first assumption, North America up, Europe probably a little down. Overall, as I said, strong backlog going into the year, strong bookings, but some caution about Europe. North America demand -- underlying demand very, very strong. There's still a little bit of a supply chain disruption even though it has greatly improved versus the beginning of 2023. Still it only needs -- it only takes one part for us to stop a shipment that we can't complete a product.

But yeah, in terms of activity with our nationals, our large customers in North America, they're all very bullish. They all feel that 2024 is another strong year. As a matter of fact, 2025 seems to be strong as well. So, it seems to carry forward. And I would say, overall, we do see probably a little bit more activity with our nationals going into 2024 just because of their exposure to the mega projects. But overall, as a global business, it doesn't really impact us from a mix standpoint, because it just kind of washes out globally in terms of product and geographic mix.

Yeah. Are you talking about AWP or Terex as whole?

Okay. Yeah, so I'll start with AWP. So, it's actually for both businesses, it's mostly Germany and the UK. It's a little bit Scandinavia. Germany and the UK is mostly non-res related. Scandinavia, it's mostly resi, where it starts to slow down and it's mostly impacting AWP and MP for that matter.

In terms of MP, it's mostly tied to the businesses that have a little bit more of European exposure. So think Fuchs, for example, is also tied, obviously, to the scrap market, but also our Cranes business, specifically our Tower Cranes business, with their exposure to the European market, they are facing some headwinds. So that's what I would call out in terms of European exposure.

Yeah, thanks for the question, David. So first of all, for everyone's math, there's about $300 million in the AWP backlog that's already carried over to 2025. So the backlog numbers that we're reporting is not all for 2024. There's about $300 million of that already allocated to 2025. So, we have about nine to 10 months coverage currently in the backlog for 2024.

In the case of Monterrey, I would say, we're obviously ramping up a very large facility, as Julie mentioned, large facility we've ever built, and we're very happy with progress we're making. We're still very much on track to deliver on the 200 basis points commitment that we made for 2025 in terms of operating margin improvement. And I would say that if supply chain continues to improve in the current trends, there's definitely upside to our guidance, to our sales outlook, and we would be towards the upper end of that range. And it's too early in the year to speculate what else we could see for the remainder of the year.

But I -- still I believe and as I said in my opening remarks, 2023 was a strong year, 2024 is a strong year. And by what we're seeing today, we think 2025 will be a strong year.

Yeah. And I don't think I can give you an answer today, David. What is important for us in 2024 is that what we're committing to our customers is what we're delivering on. And so that's our first priority. And how much of that eventually will end up spilling over in 2025, what we're currently committing to, we don't want to spill over into 2025. And so that's what we're committing to. That's what we want to build and that's what we want to ship. Currently, we think that we have -- we could have upside to the upper end of the range, but I can't give you a number of what that eventually could look like when we hit the middle of the year, for example.

So, the main reason we built Monterrey, we are building Monterrey, was -- because we wanted to improve the overall competitiveness of the business. So, it was mostly to improve Genie's through cycle margin performance. And as I mentioned, the project goes really well. We're also expanding our supply base, and it's mostly a facility that will be focused on supporting North America.

What it will actually mean in terms of capacity expansion, I can't give you a hard number, to be very honest with you. It's a facility that's mostly that helped us to kind of bring some higher-cost facilities offline like Oklahoma City and Rock Hill. So for us, it was mostly cost and competitiveness play, but obviously, the facility is built to grow. And so, we can expand going forward, but for now it's mostly to bring higher-cost capacity offline.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yeah. Well, it certainly seems like you can talk about soft landing, hard landing, no landing. It certainly seems like Europe is a little bit further behind in terms of managing their landings, so to speak, especially Germany and the UK, as I mentioned earlier. Actually, you say couple of quarters, we have seen it mostly hit us for the first time in the fourth quarter, and we see it spill over in the first and the second quarter of this year. What's going to happen in terms of recovery? I wouldn't want to speculate. But obviously, I think the European Commission is eager to at least get some sort of soft landing for most of their economies.

Yeah, in terms of inorganic action, I wouldn't be able to be specific, Tami, other than we have an active pipeline of opportunities. As I mentioned, we look at anything that could make us stronger, widen our moat or help us grow faster, but we will rank everything as we should versus all the other options we have to increase shareholder value. And again, we're posting very strong return on invested capital on just investing in our own current activity. So, we have a lot of optionality, and of course, we're also looking at Europe, but we will always force rank it versus all the other options that we have. So nothing specific to call out there.

Thanks for the question.

But I would definitely say we have upside on cash conversion going into 2025 because of the third and last year of the Monterrey investment.

Yeah. In terms of -- sorry, the question was on revenue, right?

Yeah. So I think the first thing I would add is it's important to remember that the fourth quarter of 2022 was our strongest quarter in 2022 because that was the first quarter when the supply chain really started to improve, and we started to catch up on a lot of our shipments. So that makes the year-over-year comps a little off. But then the fourth quarter of 2023, especially in our MP businesses, as I mentioned earlier, is where we really started to see the slowdown in Europe come in, and that kind of impacted MP a little bit.

Good morning.

We do expect to have upside in our capacity, yes.

No, I can't.

Yeah. I mean, we're running single shifts in most, if not all of our facilities, But I can't give you a hard number now.

Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Tim. Yeah. So, we still see inflation in 2024, although lower inflation levels that in 2023. Our position is still the same. And obviously, we're staying very close to our customers on this. We stay very transparent. But our goal is to stay price/cost neutral, to keep pushing ourselves on continuous cost-out to ease the impact on our customers also -- but also to continue to improve our operating margins. And so, we do see some inflation, although lowering, but especially in -- actually, across the board, steel, labor, integrated components, but also logistics, we definitely still see inflating input cost for 2024, although at a lower level than in 2023.

Yeah. Thanks for the question. Definitely strong tailwinds in North America for our aggregates business, a little bit of headwinds in Europe. But with the spending in infrastructure, with the construction going on in North America, definitely benefits our aggregates business in North America, but a little bit of slowdown in Germany and UK is working against it.

Thanks.

Yeah. I mean, if I look at our portfolio today, we have a portfolio of market-leading businesses around the globe, diverse, definitely strengthening each other. Strong operating margins, all of our businesses pretty much run into double digits now. Strong balance sheet, so obviously, that gives us the optionality. We're looking at anything that would make us stronger, would -- as I mentioned earlier, would make us more synergistic, would widen our moat, would help us grow faster, but it's going to be opportunistic in nature. It needs to be actionable, needs to be affordable, needs to be financially accretive. And then again, I want to reemphasize, we also still have a lot of opportunities to look just organically at expanding our businesses, because we still have a lot of addressable market that we can go after with our existing portfolio.

So obviously, we look at our pipeline of inorganic opportunities, but we're also very much looking at what we can do organically. So, everything is on the table is what I would say. And what makes my job a lot easier, quite frankly, as incoming CEO is we have a lot of operational momentum going into 2024. We have posted very strong improvements, 2023 versus 2022, up 300 basis points on operating margin as Terex overall, growing 17%. A lot of strong operational momentum. And I would say my first priority should be and will have to be to make sure we keep our operational momentum going forward into 2024. But to your point, with the strong balance sheet that we have, we do have optionality, but we'll hold it against everything else that we have on the table.

Yeah, thanks for the question. Yeah, we learned about the petition in Europe. We support the petition overall against illegal dumping of equipment in Europe or in any market for that matter. Our position is that we support fair competition in any market. We believe that a level-playing field is essential and is in the best interest of all stakeholders, team members, jobs, customers, suppliers, shareholders. And so, yeah, we were made aware of the petition that was filed in December. We're working with the European Commission and are responding to their request as required. We're eager -- we're monitoring the case and we're awaiting whatever the outcome may be. And our strength is that we have the global footprint. We are pretty flexible. We have leverage. We have optionality in our footprint. So, whatever the outcome will be, we're looking forward to it, and we'll be able to respond.

Thank you.
All right. Thank you, operator. I want to thank everyone for the questions. I'm looking forward working with you. I want to thank you for your interest in Terex. If you have any additional questions going forward, please follow-up with Julie, John or Paretosh. And with that, operator, please disconnect the call.