Soma Somasundaram
ChampionX Corporation (CHX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So let me frame our assumptions as we go into 2024. So we believe the international activity, we agree with the market view that it continues to be robust and we expect a strong growth in our international activity. Second, in North America, as you know, we are highly exposed to the operating expense spending. So we believe the operating expense spending will be incrementally stronger to drive incremental production growth in North America as customers are very much focused on incremental production growth. And thirdly, our digital product portfolio, we believe, will continue to grow strong. So when you put that all together for us, the international revenue growth will be primarily for us led by Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. And then in North America, our Production Chemical Technologies business combined with our digital portfolio will lead the growth. In our PAT business, we expect incremental growth but it will be probably more weighted to the second half. Now when I look at January, as you know, we have gotten through January. Consistent with our expectations, we can see the activity improved from Q4 to Q1, particularly in North America.

That's correct, Stephen.

Yes, Marc. Thanks for that. So if you look at our segments, you can see our largest segment, the Production Chemical Technologies consistently is growing in North America and we expected in Q4, the international growth was strong in our Production Chemical Technologies, where we tend to have issues with respect to some shortfall is in our driven by our short-cycle North American business and particularly when you look at what happened in our Q3, Q4 time frame, the U.S. land activity base short-cycle business, particularly our Drilling Technologies business, you probably noticed, we expected a 12% sequential decline in our Drilling Technologies in Q4 as we guided.

It came in a little bit more than that. So that is somewhat tough to predict, the short-cycle North American business. But more importantly, Marc, what I wanted to say is we are very focused on what we can control. And what we can control are those productivity efforts and the ability to deliver on those, along with some targeted share gains. So what you're seeing in our ability to drive continuous earnings growth despite some softness or a flattish-type revenue, is primarily driven by our ability to continuously drive productivity growth. And I've mentioned this before, this comes from our industrial heritage DNA, where there is a constant pipeline of productivity efforts. And that's what we focus on controlling because in the short cycle business, sometimes revenues can be up and down. So what you should expect from us is a continued delivery on that productivity efforts that drives our earnings growth.

Yes. Sure, Marc, absolutely. So I would say there are 3 things that are driving to what I would call it more higher decrementals. One is we are expecting an increased freight cost in Q1, particularly driven by the REC situation. Now we will recover those costs through the year as we put through price increases and so on and so forth. So the increase in freight cost in the first quarter is one element. The second element is we continue to make some incremental investments, particularly in our digital and emissions business to support upcoming growth. And then the third element is, as you know, the mix tends to be less international, particularly in PCT, less international than offshore. So that tends to drive also some higher decremental. So those are the 3 factors. But as we have said in our prepared comments, you should expect from that point, I think our midpoint guidance for the first quarter is about 20% margin for ChampionX. I think you should expect that to kind of progressively improve through the year.

Yes. So thanks for that question. So when you look at our productivity improvements, I would put them in 2 buckets. One is, as you know, we operate with the lean manufacturing principles. We call it a continuous improvement journey. So all of our operations are in a lean manufacturing continuous improvement journey. So that drives the continuous improvement of employees driving daily improvements. Then on top of that is what we call it, high impact productivity projects which are teams focused on driving significant productivity on certain projects. So let me give you a few examples of that. So the first one is, given our large spend in particularly in raw materials and bottle components. So we have teams working on how do we continue to drive productivity or reduce reducing cost of that through best cost country sourcing, strategic spend, leverage and so on and so forth. So that's a one particular project in 2024.

The second project is we have internal digitization efforts that drives productivity. And that's the second element. The third element, for example, is continued utilization improvement as well as yield improvement in our large chemical facilities as well as our drilling technologies facilities and so on and so forth. So those are high-impact large productivity type projects. So to answer your question around how should we think about the contribution of this, so the way I would think about it is, in an environment even if our revenues are flattish, you should expect us to deliver incrementally more earnings in 2024, even if the revenues are flattish. So that's how to think about it.

So when you look at our capital allocation framework which will be published in 2022, we have very much a disciplined way sticking to that. Just to refresh that, obviously, our first priority is to invest in high-impact organic opportunities, then we want to make sure that we are sustaining our dividend. As we have said before that we will consistently increase that in line with our free cash flow increases. And third, we said that any bolt-on tuck-in type opportunities for us, technology additions, geographic expansion additions, M&A type opportunities. And then lastly, any excess cash, we will opportunistically deploy to share repurchase programs. So that's our capital allocation framework which we published in 2022. And you are seeing us really in a disciplined way sticking to that. So 2023, is a good example of that.

And even from the inception of our capital return program, you can see that. For example, in 2023, we returned 83% as you said, because we didn't feel the M&A opportunity, it's not like we are not looking at M&A opportunities but we have a high bar on our M&A opportunities. So we are very disciplined about it. So when we don't have a need for that, we are returning those cash to our shareholders. And when you look at right from the inception, we have returned 71% of our free cash flow to our shareholders. So it's just a demonstration of establishing a capital allocation framework and being disciplined about it and sticking to that. So you should expect that from us going forward.

Now with respect to your question on M&A, I think we continue to look at opportunities. And as we have said before, it has to be a clear strategic fit into our portfolio. They are bolt-on type opportunities. So we continue to look at them. But again, it's a high bar for us and that's why we say at least 60%. Can it be more? Sure, we have demonstrated it can be more. So, then your question on emissions. We are pretty excited about the developments that are happening in the emissions. As you know, the recent final ruling which is adopted on methane standards, the big change in this ruling is the inclusion of existing facilities which includes things like storage tanks includes, things like terminal, includes things like gas processing plants.

So which means the regulated facilities is significantly improving in some by some estimates, it goes from what is 60,000 regulated facilities to as much as 1 million regulated facilities now. So we are excited about our emissions technology offering. As you know, we offer everything from aerial surveys to leak detections to optical gas imaging to continuous monitoring. So we have a full portfolio of emissions technologies offering. So you should see our emissions business continue to grow in an accelerated way in the coming years.

Yes. So I think with respect to Production Chemical Technologies in particular, you will see the North American business is a very steady growth consistent business as the fluids produce continues to grow in North America, not just the oil production but the total fluids produced, both in land as well as in Gulf of Mexico. And that, combined with our continued ability to introduce new technologies, address chemical intensity increases. So you should expect our North American business, particularly the U.S. land, Gulf of Mexico type businesses to continue to increase in 2024. And with respect to our other businesses, as I mentioned, PAT and Drilling Technologies businesses, we have seen in January, the improvement in activity from Q4. But we think that given the near-term uncertainty around, we still expect these businesses to grow and especially PAT given the digital growth. But the activity in other forms of lift could be a little bit more second half weighted. But we do expect PAT and Drilling Technologies business to show some growth in 2024 as well.

Yes. So from a 60 customer perspective, the predominant large set of those customers today are in North America. And the reason is, as you can imagine, there's a lot of more public companies in North America and the commitments they've made to emission reductions. So there's a really great mix of in North America for us. I will see large independent, mid-operators, midstream operators, so it's really a great mix and it continues to grow. And they adopt all different types of technology. And that's why it's really important when you're developing an emissions portfolio to have a suite of technologies just like we had [indiscernible] so that the customers can do a fit-for-purpose type of emissions technology picking, so we can offer them what is right for them. And there is more opportunities growing internationally and particularly in Middle East. And so we see in the coming years that to continue to grow.

Now in terms of your question around, is there a way to quantify the market. With the recent final ruling by EPA, as I mentioned, it's a significant increase in potentially regulated facilities. So let me just say, it will grow to be a multibillion-dollar market over a period of time. It's very hard to determine how it will go but it's just the movement is in that right direction.

Yes. So I would say the pricing and raw material, if we look at that price raw, we expect that to be pretty stable in 2024 from our Q4 levels. So say it another way, we don't expect pricing to be a major contributor to the margin expansion in 2024 and we expect the raw material cost to stay stable. So productivity will play a bigger role. Now we'll continue to opportunistically put through pricing, just like I mentioned about our freight cost increases. So we'll opportunity as we introduce new technologies. So productivity will be the bigger driver for margin expansion in 2024, along with volume.

Yes. This is something we are carefully watching. You normally get this pump in January and then February and then how does that flow. I think from an activity perspective, I think from a PAT perspective, we are seeing some good signs of those moving in. But in Drilling Technologies, again, our bearings business is continuing to grow nicely. As we have noted it grew about 40% in 2023. And it's now almost about reaching closer to 20% of our Drilling Technologies business. And we expect in Q1 that to contribute to some additional growth as well. But we are watching that trend. But so far, in Q1, the activity seems to be as we expected, with a sequential increase in PAT and DT from Q1. And in PCT also in North America, internationally, the seasonality of going down. But even in in our U.S. land business in our PCT, we are seeing the sequential increase in Q1.

Well, I want to thank you for your continued interest in ChampionX. And we look forward to talking to you in our next quarter call. Thank you.
