Stanley Bergman
Henry Schein, Inc. (HSIC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I’ll give you some high level thoughts, Elizabeth, and then maybe – can provide you with specific information or numbers to the extent, we’re providing that. So our dental equipment backlog was generally flat with the end of the third quarter, to the end of the fourth quarter, they were about the same. With the North America backlog down mid-single-digits and the international backlog high-single-digits.

Now you have to bear in mind that historically our backlog declined significantly in the fourth quarter due to the fourth quarter being the strongest equipment sales quarter. And of course, dentists and physicians wanting to get as much equipment installed in the fourth quarter as possible for tax purposes. So the equipment sales growth in the fourth quarter was impacted by the cybersecurity interest incident, of course, and that’s because we redeployed our sales consultants and particularly our sales equipment specialists in visiting customers and dealing with the cyber incident that occurred. And so they were not focused on generating sales. Our installation operation worked well. Our service operation, all of that recovered almost immediately.

But the tradition – so there’s quite a bit of business that’s going to move into the fourth quarter, both in the United States and Canada and then globally. But overall, it’s our view that the traditional equipment market is approximately flat. The market I’m talking about, right, not our sales. And that the digital equipment sales did result in further erosion of the selling price, but – the average selling price, but we believe that we have now gone past that. Of course, there are potentially some opportunities to bring in another round of digital scanners at perhaps a lower price into the United States, perhaps even into Europe, that we think would expand the market even further. But even without that, we think the price has stabilized, number one. But number two, the demand is very, very strong for these intraoral scanners.

Also pointed out in the script, and there were a lot of concerns last quarter that DSOs were stopping to invest, there may be some DSOs that have a challenge, but generally our DSO customers are investing both the national DSOs and the more regional DSOs. So we are quite optimistic about the equipment business in general. And there are also going to be some launches in the traditional equipment sales area that we expect a leading manufacturer to undertake this year that will stimulate demand. And as I said, the annualization of the intraoral scanner price decreases.

So that’s sort of – maybe there’s more information if you have anything specific we can give you. I’m not sure, Graham, around exactly what numbers we’re providing at this stage, but perhaps you can address.

On the launches, Elizabeth, I’ll give you highlights, if you want more, please call afterwards, because there’s a lot. On the endodontic side, Brasseler is expecting to advance the Pediatric Putty program, lower cost Pediatric Putty, Aquasil, in the K-Files direct endodontics portfolio. This is in Europe. There’s a new NiTi file coming out with edge, the bioceramic sealer launch in the U.S. further activity in that area with edge.

On the orthodontic side, I covered this already. We had a significant challenge with the patent expiration of the Motion Pro, and for about three quarters our pricing collapsed. But at this time, the new motion portfolio, the clinical system that we introduced, achieved class one approval and bit delayed, and we’re seeing very good recovery there.

On the implant side, BioHorizons pro surgical kit launched in the U.S. This is a new surgical kit, simplifies surgical workflow by combining the guide, the guide that we offer and the freehand surgery into one kit. We are quite optimistic on that. On the membrane side, rollout in France, Netherlands, Italy, Spain, a lot of good activity going on in there. And the S.I.N. new Zygomatic MT 16 implant kits and 45 degree abutment launch in the U.S., basically, bringing to market much more in the value area in the United States.

On the software side, I can’t go through the list. It’s huge. A huge amount of activity happening, particularly the AI revenue cycle management on the Dentrix Enterprise side, the whole job its analytics side, a lot of, lot of activity going on there. And as it relates to the acquisitions, we’re very pleased with the implant and biomaterial side of biotech. The software that we’re so excited about will be launching in the U.S., what’s actually launched in the U.S. as part of our clinical workflow. The S.I.N. acquisition, although the market in Brazil is quite tough right now, we’re very optimistic from an advancing of sales in the U.S. point of view, as well as introducing a number of the innovative products we have from the BioHorizons, Camlog portfolio into the Latin American market.

So I would say, overall, the pipeline of new product introductions, some have already been introduced or will be introduced this quarter. And as the year progresses, you’ll see more and more activity on the specialty side and on the software, as well as some of the value added services products. And the acquisitions are really doing quite well, all of them. So, yes – I mean, if we have questions more on the product side, I think it’d be a good idea to speak to Graham. He has a lot of that information and is very close to these businesses.

Yes, John, I agree with your numbers. I agree with your math. As I mentioned before, the 2024 numbers do include some investments we’re making in the business, some things that had to be deferred from 2023, as well as ongoing investment that we believe is necessary for future growth in the business. And that’s reflected within our earnings estimates.

We have a slight tailwind on currency, Jeff. And yes, 3% to 4% percentage points on internal is a – I believe is what we are shooting for in terms of our goals from an internal standpoint on the revenues. I mean, that’s – when you back out the – that’s kind of backing out a cybersecurity normalization. It’s also taking into account the acquisition. So the residual that is left in that revenue guidance would be in that 3 to 4 point range.

Very good question, Jeff. So on the endo side, the portfolio of endo products that is historically sold through distribution in the United States in particular is rather limited. That’s why we entered into the specialty field ourselves. And yes, selling of the EdgeEndo product through Henry Schein in the United States and in Canada will be a net very nice positive.

On the A side, Henry Schein’s reps have had access to some of the biomaterials that we offer at Henry Schein, namely the ACE biomaterials. But I would not say that they were focused on this. By providing the specialty salesforce capabilities, I think we should make nice progress within the oral surgery community for the biomaterials, for equipment, and perhaps even some general sales.

And then there will be collaboration of course with our implant company in the United States, namely BioHorizons, and also with the S.I.N. product line as that is launched further into the United States. So this is something very exciting. Sales have taken off somewhat, but I expect much more sales after our national sales meeting in the summer this year as the sales force is educated in how to create leads for the specialty sales team in both of these areas.

Very good question, Michael. Also, I think we continue with our role of helping practitioners operate a more efficient practice so that they can operate a more efficient practice, and on the clinical side. So in order to do that, we believe that our clinical workflow, which I think is quite unique, we covered that at our Investor Day and have made quite a bit of progress in that area. So that leads to greater sales in digital equipment units for sure in the scanners, in the 3D printing arena, I think the chair [ph] side mill is relatively flat today, but particularly in those two areas, as well as 3D printing as well as imaging, 2D, 3D imaging, all connected to our software.

I think all of that helps us advance our position on the digital side, where it’s already quite strong, both in the United States, Canada and internationally, particularly in the markets where we offer practice management software. So I think overall the digital side, we will continue, I think to gain market share in a rapidly growing market.

On the traditional side, I think we continue to edge forward with our market share. We’ve been doing that for years, both here in the United States and abroad. There are a couple of international challenges, namely in parts of Western Europe where some of the national brands, because of pricing have lost some market share and we’re now selling more of the lower priced brands. So it brings down the selling price. I’m not sure it brings down the profits, but overall, we are quite bullish about our equipment business. It’s not what it was during the COVID – the post-COVID period, the market has stabilized and we are comfortable that we can grow market share. At the same time, our equipment service business is doing very well. We’ve invested in software in systems in that area throughout the world and that is paying off.

I thought we mentioned, but maybe we were not clear. I think we will see a little bit more in the beginning part of the year and I think we will stabilize. Having said that, there is a possibility of additional less feature friendly, feature full systems being introduced into the United States, but I think that will only expand the market.

What we’re – I don’t know what are we 40% of dentists – half the dentists using one of these scanners. I think every dentist should use one. I think the patients want that. And so there’s a huge opportunity to expand the market, plus replacement business is also growing and systems that integrate with our software that is also growing space. You combine that with the 3D printing and the whole digital space is very, very exciting. And I think we’ve probably gotten to the bottom on the price erosion side or close to it, maybe a little bit more, as I said, first three, four months of the year. And if a lower price product is introduced less features, I think that will only expand the market.

Yes. So that’s awesome. These are good questions. So what happened during the cyber incident? For about a month or so, our website didn’t work, a little bit longer internationally, which resulted in customers who are impulse shoppers, customers that look for pricing when they buy, and customers where we have particular data on what business they are not giving us particular products or particular timing. We didn’t have access to all of that data and we couldn’t really market through our website and through our social media.

Of course, that’s back again, and we’re quite active in that area. And I think we’re starting to bring that business back again. These are the customers that are not necessarily called upon by a field sales representative or for some of the products they go shopping or where a telesales representative doesn’t have a deep relationship, or even if the telesales representative had a deep relationship, they were busy taking orders, not calling out. That whole area is the area that we have to reinvigorate.

Our Google ratings went down, obviously, because we were not – our customers were not going to Google to buy from us to do searching. All of that is being worked on. I have a tremendous confidence in our team that is involved in e-commerce, and I think that’s how we’ll get that business back again. And we’re already starting to see that.

As it relates to the more, the larger customers, I think they’re more or less all back again. I mean, a couple of them may have gotten support from our competition during that period and feel they need to give them a little bit more business. But I think largely that business is back again. We had to satisfy the CISOs [ph] of many of our larger customers that everything’s okay, and by and large, those systems are turned on again.

So I mean, it’s going to take at least a quarter, maybe four months, two to four months to get back to normal. I don’t think we’ve lost many customers. Our services are great, whether it’s the services that we offer for equipment installation or for claims processing. There was an incident recently where a big part of the claims processing in our industry was impact by cybersecurity incident through one of the providers didn’t impact us. We came up with alternative procedures very quickly. And so I think people will understand, just like in COVID, when they didn’t have mass, they knew who to call. And so I think our brand in the marketplace is very strong today, and we will recover. I think this business just can’t tell you exactly what day. It’s not going to be long.

Hey Justin, I don’t think there are any major investments to bring S.I.N. to the United States. They already had approval at the time we acquired or invested in the actually acquired the business. Of course, there’s educating about salesforce in the United States. They already have a specialty salesforce. I don’t – S.I.N. has a specialty salesforce. I don’t think that they’re going to have to invest much more than the income that they generate from expanding their sales in the United States, expect that actually to be accretive.

So I don’t think that will be an issue. There is some work going on that’s costing us money in the alignment of the aligners between Biotech and Henry Schein orthodontics. We’re going to be merging facilities. We’re going to be moving around the world, different sites for the manufacture of the aligners and going to be operating under one brand. So there’s some investment in that. There’s quite a bit of investment in the recovery of the systems from an operational point of view. But I mean that’s all baked into our numbers and not material in the context of the entire Henry Schein business.

By the way, Shield, I think will just be – its totally accretive, that whole healthcare – home healthcare business is a very nice business for us and certainly not a drain on earnings. Sorry.

Yes. Our – yes, first of all, it’s less than 10% of our specialty business. It’s doing quite well, particularly with DSOs where we provide very good value. I think it’s doing quite well in France, a number of European countries, but again, it’s relatively small and I wouldn’t expect this to move the numbers much from a corporate point of view, other than enables us to go into a customer and offer all the products and related services that the customer may need. So it’s a good product offering.

But again, as I said specifically for DSOs, several large ones are quite happy with our software business and that’s with our aligner business and with the software in that field. And it’s growing quite nicely, but it’s really an adjunct to our specialty business.

Okay. So let me thank everyone for calling in. I know these numbers are complex. Graham and Ron, stand by to clarify any of the questions you may have, answer the questions. We remain confident in the business, quite enthusiastic with the relatively quick recovery in the latter part of the fourth quarter and into the first quarter. Of course, we had some challenges with the flu in the first quarter. I think you heard that from a number of analysts, read the newspapers. You can see that dental visits were canceled in January, but it’s recovered in February.

And our medical doctors did okay with additional flu visits so far in the quarter. I think the recovery is going well. We have to remember that our team was entirely focused on servicing customers and not on sales for most of the fourth quarter, and that our equipment team was really servicing customers but not really going out and selling much in the fourth quarter. I don’t think we missed a lot of business, but we now have to get back into the business of selling, which we are installing.

And I think we’ll do fine in the equipment area as well both here and internationally. European business is stable. Australia, New Zealand is stable. Brazil, slightly challenged because of the economy, but we’re still growing. And our software businesses are great. In particular, we are very impressed with how quickly our team at Henry Schein One responded to the challenge of the major clearinghouse in claims, having gone down last Wednesday, and our ability to service claims through alternative methodologies so quickly.

I think our customers will appreciate that and I would expect us to garner some new customers in that process. And these specialty businesses are doing well. We believe we continue to grow market share, particularly the implant side, in a market that is relatively stable to slightly growing. And we will be back with, I think some very positive growth on the endodontic side now that the equipment, the systems are fully restored. And, yes, the orthodontic side will grow.

So with that, and with our enthusiasm for our digital workflow taking hold, and the medical business continuing to have a great position in that market, including the homecare, I remain very enthusiastic about a strong 2024. And again, Ron and Graham are ready to clarify questions you may have. So thank you very much for calling in. And we’ll be back, I guess, in two months. But I think we’ll be going to some investor conferences as well. And there are some calls that you can call into that some of the analysts have set up. So thank you very much.
