Stefan Larsson
PVH Corp. (PVH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, thank you. Thank you, Matt, and good morning. Okay. Let us take the three different parts of this question. I'll start with the two first. So if it comes to, let's start with brand strength. So, as I mentioned, we see an all-time high consumer engagement across both Calvin and Tommy. And if we look at the start of the spring campaign with Calvin with their campaign with Jeremy Allen White, we had the biggest cut-through campaign in all of the fashion industry. So some data to back up that.

So we had an earned media value of over 74 million so far with that campaign, we have 134 million engaged brand fans on Instagram, which was 60% up versus same time last year. And then the engagement of those 134 million were 13%, which was up 85% year over year. So what you're seeing from Calvin is a demonstrated consistency in delivering cut-through campaigns with Jennie Kim, Kendall Jenner, Jung Kook and you will increasingly see new talent coming into the brand on a consistent basis. So that's Calvin.

On Tommy, we have developed a consistent, you'll see a consistent way of driving high relevance through going back to the unique DNA of the brand classic American cool. So a few examples from this spring. Tommy went back to New York Fashion Week. We had a reach of over 6 billion. So when we do the fashion show with Tommy, we also work with maximizing the talent reach on the front row and 6 billion took us to the most cut-through show in New York Fashion Week, plus, it took us as the only non-luxury brand into the top ten of all brands, luxury included across all fashion weeks globally.

So you look at New York, London, Milan, Paris, so top ten. And yesterday, as I mentioned, we launched another cut-through campaign with Tommy featuring StrayKids. And StrayKids is now one of the top three K-pop bands globally. So that's one way of looking at brand strength and brand relevance. But another way that I like to look at it is I spent, as you know, I'm spending a lot of time being out in stores, traveling out in the markets. I spend roughly 50%, 60% of my time. And what I keep seeing when I come to big shopping malls is let's say that a shopping mall has 140 -- over 140 brands.

And then I meet the owners of the shopping centers saying that 30% of all or over 30% of all the traffic coming to the shopping mall comes to one of our brands. And that, to me, is just a really impressive figure to tap into because think about the consumer today, they have all the choice in the world. They have only so much time and over 30%. And this is something I hear across Europe, I hear it in North America and I hear it in Asia Pacific, but most importantly, translating that into growth.

So D2C growth, your second part of your question. So last year, we drove 9% growth in D2C as a company. North America drove 7%, Asia drove 17%, and in Europe, we drove 5%. And the PVH plus execution, the momentum, we translate that into 2024 and it directly connects to growth in North America and Asia. So if you look at D2C growth expected for Q1 and the full year for '24, North America continues mid-single digit. Asia, continued double digit growth.

And in Europe, to your question about quality of sales, we see low single digit decline and this is a decline that's a proactive sacrifice that we make in this tougher environment. So the D2C related part of that is making sure that we have less inventory in the market and less inventory to demand and at the same time have higher availability. So you can see that already now in our European business that we have much less outgoing stocked old inventory, less discounted old inventory, much more of the new stocks driving double-digit comp increases.

So spring season alone drive double digit comp increases. So what you will see from us on the D2C side is sacrificing some of the top line growth in the near term to position us for long term growth brand accretive increasingly profitable in the long term. And this is a good connection, Zach, to you, if you can lay out the path we see to the 15% operating margin.

Thanks.

Thank you, Jay. Yes. So Matt's question was related more to D2C. So when we look at the full market, there are three big actions we are taking to increase quality of sales in Europe this year. The first one is mid-year. We are stopping sales of our brands by third parties on digital platforms. So we are enabled by a change in European regulations that makes it possible to do this, which is very important to keep the distribution quality high and keep the pricing power up.

The second initiative we take is to reduce the number of digital platforms we sell to. So we will reduce approximately 30% of the platforms we historically have sold to again to focus on the key platforms, our key wholesale partners to increase the quality of sales with them. And the third part is what I mentioned when I answered Matt's question, which was across all channels, we are buying inventory much closer to demand.

So again, you see it already now that spring season is up, gross margin is up and old inventory is down. And that's what you will continue to see from us. We're down overall. We are down 20% in inventory and you will see us continue to drive the business with higher quality of sales and less inventory. And that's how we will continue to position ourselves for long term sustainable growth.

And the PVH+ Plan is a plan to tap into the unique potential of having two of the most iconic beloved brands globally in the fashion industry and tapping into the DNA of those brands and in a very systematic way drive product strength, consumer engagement strength, marketplace strength and then connecting that to the underlying demand and data-driven engine. And we have talked about that since we kicked off the plan two years ago. And now you really see that we are able to drive much higher quality sales. And for 2024 outlook as well, gross margin and pricing power is up across all regions.

So let me start with your question, Michael, about the D2C expectations for Europe for the rest of the year. It doesn't have to stay this way. What we are doing is we are guiding based on what we see, we see a consumer slowdown in Europe especially on our two biggest markets, Germany and the UK in January, February. So what we're doing is we are making sure that the focus is on quality of sales and we are pulling the inventory down to the trends we see right now. And then, of course, if these changes, we are able to react into that and to follow the demand. But our strategy will always remain the same which is to follow the demand that we see from the consumer and to do it in an increasingly profitable way.

Yeah. Thank you, Bob. As I shared in my prepared remarks really proud of the team, how they're building an increasingly sustainable, profitable base to continue to grow the business. So if you look at the outlook for '24, we see that continue. I mentioned mid-single digit growth in D2C. We actually in comp doors in wholesale with our key partners. We're also for 2024 driving comp sales growth. So what is driving this is the disciplined PVH plus execution.

So product focus on driving product category offense that works for both Calvin and Tommy. Innovation in the best must have essentials. The hero products that works across both brands as well. We see as a result, the pricing power and margin expansion. We see that the experience is improved, the improved brand experience for both Calvin and Tommy. If you go onto our website, you see that our experience is significantly improved versus last year. And we see all of this leading to growth in both D2C and wholesale looking into 2024.

And when it comes to Macy's, we see it -- continue to see very encouraging performance where we lean in with them into their most important doors. We look at staffing together and we see great effect of the top door focus, the staffing focus, and the product category offense and the key essential focus.

Thanks, Ike. Let me start on the takeback of our North America women's product categories for wholesale. So we're taking that back over a multi-year period. We're on plan. We have really good partnership with our key wholesale accounts. We have the product engines built, the sourcing built. So everything is lined up to seamlessly connect the women's products that we are bringing in for North America into the PVH plus framework, which is about brand accretive long term growth with pricing power. So all on plan.

Thank you, Dana. When it comes to quality of sales, as I mentioned, the quality of sales actions we take impacts positively both the wholesale channel and the D2C channel. So our focus on wholesale is to continue to get closer to our biggest and most important partners and they will benefit from the proactive actions we are taking in terms of cutting third-party sales of our brands to platforms, reducing the number of digital platforms we sell to have less inventory overall. So the quality of sales will be seen by our partners in Europe and across all regions and in D2C, and you will see us -- you will see us in -- what was your last question, Dana? Part of the question was that in Asia, was that an Asia question?

Okay. So in Asia, we have high-quality of sales. We are predominantly D2C. So no changes there.

Thanks, Dana. We have time for one last question.

Yeah. So let's start on the spring business. So we are in the middle of the Easter selling period and Easter this year is earlier than last year and so far we are on plan. When it comes to Red Sea, it takes us ten days longer to ship around and avoid the Red Sea. So it takes us ten days longer. We don't see it having a significant impact on our overall supply chain.

All right. With that, thank you for taking the time today. We are relentless in consistency and focus of the PVH plus execution of driving long term sustainable growth from our two iconic, beloved brands, Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger. And looking forward to catching up on this journey next quarter again. Thank you.