Stephen Schwarzman
Blackstone Inc. (BX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Craig, love the question. I would say putting numbers on this is very hard, given the nature of the business. What we can say is lots of good things are coming into place, right? We've got the Fed moving from tightening to lowering rates. You've got debt market spreads starting to come down a bit. You've got an equity market that has rallied. I think we're going to see the IPO market pick up. And then, M&A volume is picking up as well. There are lots of companies out there who would like to sell things, private equity firms in particular. There are folks in real estate who've been frozen here for a couple of years.

So, putting numbers on it is hard, but we would expect deal activity to pick up. It sometimes, of course, takes time to do these things. So a bunch of the deals you saw on private equity, we've been working on for some time, but the path of travel here is sort of up and to the right in terms of deal activity. Putting an exact number, I think, is just tough.

So a couple of things here. The transaction we announced last week included an apartment component, but that was mostly in Canadian apartments. The vast majority of the company is focused on single family for rent. That space because of the shortage of single family homes has been much stronger.

In the multifamily space, as we've noted here, what we've seen is a surge of new supply that was put in place during the low rate period when values had moved up a lot. And that's going to take probably 12 months, maybe a little longer to work through. Right now, rents have moved down to a level where they're pretty flat. In some cases, modestly negative. And as I said, that'll take some time.

The good news is multifamily construction is now down about a third. And so, once you sort of work through this, we should be in a much better place. And the overall backdrop is one of a housing shortage in the United States.

So, single family, stronger near term. Multifamily, definitely a little bit weaker. But in overall constructive housing environment in terms of our investment activity, it's possible you could see us invest into the weakness in multifamily because we've got a long-term constructive view, even if there are some near-term headwinds.

Well, we definitely think it's a good time to be a commercial mortgage real estate lender because the sentiment is so poor. And to your point, Michael, capital has pulled back. Banks are trying to reduce exposure. Our business today, I think, is a little over $70 billion in that space. And the nice thing about the capital we have is it really runs the gamut. We have our BREDS funds, which are more high yield in nature. We're raising the fifth vintage of that. We do a transition of mortgages in Blackstone Mortgage Trust. Then we have our insurance clients who want to do more stabilized real estate. And then we also have, for the insurance clients and other clients, what we do in the CMBS market around liquid securities and real estate debt.

And we think this is a sector that has really lagged. If you look at spreads, they're pretty wide by historic standards. Loan to values have fallen. It's the natural thing that happens after a downturn. And so, I think this is an area that can continue to grow at a pretty good clip, just because I think you can earn very attractive returns relative to the risk. And just like, on the equity side, this is an area we're going to be leaning into as we move into this year.

Alex, I don't know if it's necessarily exactly a certain level. I think it's about momentum. As you know, after investors have taken losses, even if they're modest losses, there tends to be caution. Real estate because of the lag, and when challenges materialize, will have a number of negative headlines coming out over the course of the year. And so, what happens is, I think investors tend to take their time in terms of pivoting back to the space. That's certainly what happened in the early 90s. That's what happened in 208, 2009. And so, there's caution. So, you don't see huge sort of surge of capital flowing in on a dime.

What happens is, as the recovery, first you get this sort of bottoming effect, then you start to get some growth in values, and then the consensus starts to change. What happens in this period of time is you tend to get, I think, the greatest opportunities for investing because you can see the light at the end of the tunnel, but capital hasn't flown into this space. And then, over time, as results get better, there's limited new supply, rates have come back down, then people start to go back in because they feel like it's safe to do.

So, I think the short answer is that will take a bit of time on both the institutional and the individual investor side, but it's tied to performance. And it will take multiple quarters of strong performance where people say, hey, I'm comfortable doing this. In the meantime, we should be looking to take advantage of this lack of confidence in the marketplace.

Well, I guess I'd start with the facts. Last year, we were actually up year-on-year in private equity realizations, and generated strong realizations from that sector, which I think says something about our portfolio where we positioned it and also the marks there. So I think our optimism comes from where we're positioned, some of the sectors in terms of digital migration, what's happening in energy transition, life sciences, a bunch of businesses and sectors that have done quite well, the fact that we had greater than 7% revenue growth in our portfolio in the fourth quarter. We saw margin expansion as costs came down. I'd say we overall feel pretty good about our portfolio.

And I think it's a combination, as we've talked about, of good underlying economic growth, the right sectors, and now a more favorable sort of capital markets environment with inflation and rates coming down. So that leads us to have some confidence here.

Things can change, as we saw last year, quickly in March of last year, with the bank crisis in the late summer with rates moving up. But as we sit today, we feel pretty good. And so, I think in terms of what you own, where you carry it, that leads you to your relative level of confidence, I believe, and so we still feel pretty good about the outlook in private equity.

Well, I'd start with the backdrop on individual investors. We've talked about it on these calls in the past, but there's about $80 trillion of wealth globally, folks who have more than a million dollars of investable assets. We estimate that that's about 1% allocated to alternatives. We'll just call it 29%, 30% with our institutional clients. We think that has a lot of room to grow. We've shown success, obviously, in strong performance with our private real estate vehicle, our private credit vehicle, and we think the natural evolution here is a private equity vehicle.

The strategy is broad based, as we talked about on the call, not just traditional corporate private equity, but tactical opportunities, secondaries, growth, life sciences, really plays to our strengths of this broad platform that we have.

And so, as we look forward here, we think individual investors will respond. And of course, it's a function of how we deliver over time. Initially, we had a very strong start with that $1.3 billion first close, which reflects the relationships we've built up over time.

I think an interesting fact that was pointed out yesterday is 85% of the financial advisors who allocated to BXPE in that first close had already allocated to BREIT and even a higher percentage had allocated to BCRED, showing cumulatively between BREIT and BCRED, showing that our customers feel tremendous loyalty to us. So, the fact that we have these deep long relationships, we've developed confidence, we've delivered performance. I think that makes us uniquely positioned in the retail space. And we think creating access to private equity in a semi liquid format will be more attractive.

There will still be investors in the individual investor space who will invest with us in drawdown funds. But of course, you don't get all that capital back for 12 plus years, and it's got a little bit of a different structure. It lends itself to a smaller investor universe. We think there's going to be a lot of receptivity to this product. We're going to have to do like we did with BREIT and BCRED, which is deliver for the customers. As we do that, we think this product can grow to scale where today it's $60 billion of equity in BREIT, roughly $30 billion in BCRED, $60 billion of gross assets. And we think this product has the opportunity to grow as well. But we've got to deliver for the customers, get out there, engage and do it over time.

I would just add, given our model, which is an open architecture, the opportunity to do SMAs with other individual insurance clients, not necessarily these four, large strategics, we think that opportunity is significant. And of course, we're out there looking for other strategic partners. And our plan, as you know, is to run a capital light insurance business, managing money, and doing it for a wide variety of clients. Given the performance, what we've been able to deliver in terms of credit quality and yield premium, we think will attract more insurance companies. So this is an area we believe of real momentum. And we think we have multiple engines of growth, and we're going to be at it and having these four anchor clients is very helpful.

I think on the direct lending front specifically, there is more capital coming into the market today. As you said, the banks are coming back. Although their appetite for bridging things for long periods of time I still think is a little more limited. There are other players coming into the direct lending space.

The good news, going back to the earlier conversation is, we're seeing a pickup in transaction activity. And so, although the supply of capital may be picking up here, I think the demand for that capital will grow.

I'd also say for us specifically, with 100 plus billion in the space, our ability to write very large checks is a very significant competitive advantage. So, the fact that we can commit to a multibillion dollar transaction on our own across our various private vehicles, our BDCs, that is really helpful.

And structurally, I think direct lending's competitive advantage is our ability to give borrower certainly. From the bank's standpoint, of course, they've got to have some flex because they want to distribute that paper. They don't want to take losses. We because we're in the storage business can offer that borrower certainty. And so, particularly on new originations, we think that is an area that will continue to be strong for direct lending. We think the pickup in deal activity will be helpful here. And we think our scale will certainly be helpful. So, yes, I think the environment does get a little more competitive.

The good news is the credit quality of what's being originated still feels very good. The average loan to value last year for us in our direct lending was only 40%, a fraction of what it was, let's say, 15 years ago. And you look across our portfolio in direct lending and defaults are almost non-existent, which is quite remarkable. So the platform seems to be in good shape. There may be more capital coming to the space, but I think there'll be more deal flow as well. And so that's the positive.

Well, I would say this, I go back to the big picture here, which we talked about, which is we do think we're seeing a bottoming in values, but we don't think this is some sort of -shaped recovery. And so, for us, we've said we think it's a very good time for deployment. Putting your finger on exactly what values will move to, it's hard to do. But certainly rates coming down, new supply coming down are helpful for the sector. I would say this, I would expect this year will certainly be better, would be my expectation from a valuation standpoint relative to 2023. But making predictions on exactly where it lands, I think that's tough to do this early in the year, but there are some good fundamental things happening on the ground.