Stephan Tanda
AptarGroup, Inc. (ATR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Ghansham. Yes, look, overall, we continue just to be impressed with the pool of proprietary drug delivery systems, clearly nasal delivery, whether it’s allergic rhinitis, whether it’s emergency medicines continues to do well, but the growth is really broad based, so maybe that was a tick better, but really, it's really broad-based.

Yes, we really don't track it that way. What we do track is the application, so as a reminder for any of those autoinjectors and fancy, you have a plunger and then you have a needle shield. And clearly, as we said before, we are on three major STUs of those drugs out there and the auto injectors. And but we, market share, we really track much more broadly for the injectable space. And as there we are still much smaller than the market leader, but continue to have very good project built in our pipeline and feel good about prospects.

Yes, look, we're really executing the plan that we shared with you in September of ensuring we have strong operating leverage by attacking costs often in areas where we haven't done really in history of the company like in Europe, increasing productivity in our plants, bringing on capacity, it's more productive. So our intent is really to have the bottom line grow quite a bit faster than the top line. Now, bottom line growth will not be disconnected from the top line, but certainly double-digit EPS growth remains our ambition.

The cost reduction is still, will flowing to the P&L as the year progresses. I mean, just one example, the facility enclosures that we are shutting down in France in the middle of the year. The benefits of that, you will only start to see in the second half of the year, and it's just one example.

So, hi, George. Yes, we certainly expect pharma to normalize its growth but that means staying within its long-term target range of 7% to 11% and yes, all this productivity work to your second question is designed to have our consumer facing businesses increase their margin and get into their target ranges. That's the whole point and we are making good progress on the productivity and efforts and I have to say the teams are energized to find additional ideas and additional opportunities and starting to become a point of pride in the company and really taking root in our culture.

Yes, I'm not going to paint myself in the corner, I've learned that. But we are certainly depending on the recovery in North America and how polymer does see that top line growth should be in the target ranges and we continue to make progress on our profitability.

Yes, let me take the first one and then Bob come, back on the second one. So fundamentally, we've been prided for this, we're living in a new world. The competitiveness of supply chains regionally is very important and we have a number of steps that we are executing on to increase our competitiveness. This one that I mentioned earlier in China is really a company we've collaborated with for some time and now making a minority investment in and we really see it as filling out some of the gaps we have in our industrial footprint in China that will serve us well to serve not only the Chinese consumers but consumers across Asia and in particular, I would highlight that it's an integrated capability of designing and building molds, building equipment, some additional dispensing manufacturing capability that's complementary to what we have, and last but not least, additional metal and anodizing capability that's almost impossible to get new approvals for, and it's very important to have for integrated solutions. So, in respecting our partner's wishes, we're only disclosing a lot more detail when we close, but what we can disclose, you will find in the K.

Yes, so we don't give guidance on that. When you do these things in Europe, roughly that you can have a two to one kind of rule of thumb, meaning that the annual savings rate costs about two times as much in terms of restructuring costs because basically you're talking about severance for people. And that's guided by law and the social plans. And yes, what we have on the hopper now, so to speak, we see contributing to the bottom line in ‘24 and well into ‘25. But if you get additional ideas, of course we will execute on those. The big themes are reducing labor, streamlining factories, shutting down some factories like the closure facility in France, and moving activities into global talent centers in Eastern Europe, in Mexico, and in Asia. So those themes will continue. And as we have new ideas and additional ideas, we will disclose them at the time when we are ready.

Sure, Alex. What we try to describe maybe a bit complicated, of course, the pipeline has things going in and things coming out. And when you launch a product, those are no longer in the pipeline. We had in ‘23 a record year of new product launches, those things come out of the pipeline, and then, of course, it depends how well they do in the marketplace, and that's usually a multiyear built. What we said is new projects that we put into the pipeline were on a risk-adjusted basis. That's how we measure the pipeline value, of equal value of what has come out of the pipeline in terms of product launches. So we feel actually very good about that given the record launches in ‘23, and that's why we feel, it’s another reason why we feel very comfortable with to raise the long-term target for pharma. Incidentally, we also see, although it doesn't have the same mechanics, but we see the order book, if you want, order pipeline growing in the consumer-facing market as we are more on the front foot with project opportunities.

Yes, we really don't give that detail, but what we have said is that, I'm going back a little bit, the pandemic has really been good for us in the sense that our technical capability was tested by everybody. They came to the conclusion that they are equal to the market leader, which means companies do new projects in biologics and otherwise, but especially biologics, look to us as being a partner for a particular project. So our biologics pipeline is growing quite well, but we're not, and that has led us to the significant investments we made in additional capacity, $180 million plus an acquisition in China plus the build-out in North America. So that gives you a sense for the confidence we have in the pipeline. That doesn't say anything that the other pipeline -- the other end markets are shrinking. The overall pipeline continues to do very well.

Sure. And as a reminder, when you look to what we record in Europe, part of that is actually what's consumed in Europe, and we do see some weakness in home care in Europe and personal care. What we found in terms of fragrance is those products tend to end up around the world. So there, we're not only signaling what's happening in the Europe consumer market, but fragrance globally, because LVMH launches the fragrance and it goes around the world and so on. So what you hear from us is not that different, except that when we talk about fragrance, it's more signal that launch activity continues for our fragrance customers, and we expect growth in the kind of 3% to 6% range for our fragrance business. While we experience the same kind of consumer that other companies experience, and indeed, we see pockets of weakness in that then gets consolidated into our Beauty results and into our closure results.

Great. Thank you. So let me end the call by zooming out a bit. Again, we are closing out the very successful year with 2023. It's really the company and all of our businesses are much stronger than the year ago, as many of the initiatives and projects that we kicked off during the pandemic are now coming to fruition. And our enhanced execution capabilities are being put to work in our factories and in the marketplace. And as we talked about, we are executing the ambitious plan that we shared with you at the Investor Day in last September and have a very strong focus on both the top line and on productivity gains, ensuring that our bottom line growth faster than the top line in keeping us on this double digit EPS growth trajectory.

So as we enter 2024, we have strong pipelines and a growing order book. We expect the momentum to continue, even though as we just talked about, we see pockets of economic weakness in some of our regional end markets. We also entered the year with a number of productivity and cost reduction efforts well underway, mid-flight so to speak, and they will keep adding to the bottom line throughout ‘24 and into ‘25. And then in addition to that, our teams are eager to find additional productivity opportunities, which is that a leadership event last week, it's really becoming a point of pride in the company and taking root in our culture, just like innovation and sustainability.

We are increasing the competitiveness of regional footprints with our actions that we talked about in Europe, in Asia, now including a joint venture, and in North America, including expanding our Mexican capacity for the North American market. Our strong balance sheet allows us to continue to invest in future growth and productivity investments. As you know, we are fans of bite-sized, bolt-on partnerships and acquisitions and have developed a solid track record to deliver against those, as well as return funds to shareholders. So when you consider all the puts and takes for the coming period, it's our proprietary drug delivery systems will continue to grow even after the strong year ‘23 and remain inside the growth target of our overall pharma growth target.

Injectables for sure will not repeat the ERP issue, and it's benefiting from a strong pipeline in biologics and otherwise. We didn't talk about digital health, but this project win that we have with Biogen, again, the press release is coming out in 15 minutes or so, bodes well for our digital health business as we start to more and more operate digital health solutions for our clients. Elsewhere, fragrance will continue to grow also after year of double digit growth. We anticipate the North America destocking to abate and Asia is pulling nicely while China recover is a bit more muted, India starts to really pull much stronger and our expenses, whether it's SG&A or manufacturing fixed costs are coming down. So when you sum that all up, that bodes well for 2024 and beyond and we look forward to discuss in more detail with you on the road. Thanks for joining.