Stephan Scholl
Alight, Inc. (ALIT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Scott.

No, I think, Pete, thanks for that. It’s doubling down on what’s been working for us on our platform strategy. And as you’ve seen in the last the last midterm of last three years, we've gotten 30% growth out of our platform approach and we know it's working.

And if you get if you look at the next midterm guidance, this is a book of business that's going to be about $1 billion in business for us and we want to double down on the front door employee engagement experience.

And we want to really move towards a recurring revenue base with that higher margin contribution capability. So if you take those ingredients, we’re taking a review in that context. We don't have to own all the systems of record potentially. We had - no we can look at different areas where we can partner with people around contents. But the battleground really for us is, really doubling down on the platform piece.

And listen, it's no secret. I've said it before, we're not getting credit in the market for the work that we're doing today, alright? So when you think about where we sit on our transformation agenda, it's how do we continue to unlock that value.

Thanks Pete.

And we're seeing a continued - as I said a few minutes ago, Kyle, continued close to what we've seen in every other industry best-of-breed to Enterprise in terms of consolidation, simplification, all centered around staying healthy and financially secure. If anything the pressure now around economics, it was easy to three years ago during COVID to spend more money on employee engagements.

Every CEO approved everything. HR Executives have said around spend rate on employees that has changed. I've seen a dramatic shift with a lot of see it arose under a tremendous amount of pressure and not being able to spend what they want to spend. And so what you have to do you have to look at where the current spend is. What's the value of that spend. Engagement rates are still very, very low in terms of usage of a lot of these, powerful systems.

And the reason is because you have to go to multiple places to get access to these things and they're complicated. So, we've been on this, now into our year for of our transformation journey to platform consolidation of a lot of these data sources, providing a mobile experience as you seen some of the data, it's amazing to see how many interactions are happening on a mobile phone, all in the name of providing a better easier, consumer-grade experience like we experience everything else in our life, right?

And I think clients are looking for us to be a supporter in driving that kind of consolidation and simplification. By the way, here is the other good news, look at the ecosystem at large, whether it's Microsoft or ServiceNow, great companies out there all trying to drive towards integration platform kind of an approach.

And so, we are right along for the right action leading the charge in the specific category around HR. So, I think it's an exciting time for us.

And the ROIs are big. Now those bills are big dollars. I talked about in the calls, and there's other ones that I wish I could talk more about, but it's very sensitive data unfortunately. But there's some big, big impacts that we're having for a lot of big clients around the world.

When you look at where we started with this journey just three years ago, company owned $300 million now going to a billion over this last midterm in this one. That by itself, between 30% CAGR in the first midterm going to 15% CAGR in this midterm. That's pretty - we think it's exciting and we see the impact of that book of business being a recurring book of business, better profitable book of business.

And as we said now a few times, the impact of that to our clients, I mean at the end of the day, the north star of what Alight is all about is, if we have 40 million people looking to Alight to be the front door will keep them healthy and financially secure, the TAM of that opportunity puts us into one of the most important opportunities in the marketplace period.

And I've been doing this for long enough across different segments and I have never seen an opportunity at this large-scale. So, it's always, but it's all wrapped up in this larger company with high growth and low growth and different segments of the business that I've talked about for the last few years. So how do we recast the recipe.

And as Katie just said and I’ve said it earlier, and we're just and we're not getting value as a total company or as an entity within the rest of Alight for what we're doing as you can see, right? And so we're trying to figure out how to unlock that. How to double down on that.

How to get a better capital structure to support the continued investments in driving towards a platform company, because whoever arrives at that station will become one of the most important companies in this industry, because that's the sheer size of the opportunity in front of us.

And the other good news is, as crowded as the tech world is there's no will be doing this today effectively at our size and scale, like nobody. And I think that’s the opportunity. So we have to move quickly at base to take advantage of that and that’s the other piece of this, which is how do we actually accelerate the success we had in that category.

Thank you.

I mean in three years, Heather in ‘21, we had $2.1 billion of revenue under contract and in the ‘24 we have $3 billion. That $900 million delta is a collection of just the sales momentum, the quality of the book of business. And I think that's pretty powerful in terms of getting visibility into what the future revenue architecture looks like.

That's a big swing from $2.1 billion to $3 billion and then as Jeremy said in our midterm in 2026, we already have $1.5 billion in place three years out. That's pretty powerful for us to consider as a baseline three years out to have that much already under contract.

And the reason why I'm here just to be super blunt about it is not because I want to drive consolidation on the ERP and revenue systems. There's a higher calling opportunity I've talked about before years. It makes me so frustrated how many people make the wrong decisions on back surgery, knee surgery, clinical decisions.

How many people can't save enough for retirement because they just make the wrong decisions. I mean, half of the employees make wrong decisions around benefits.

I mean, it's staggering to see the mistakes that happen across our employee population. And these are the biggest most important companies in the world. So I sit here and say, we can do better. And how do we help our clients do better by their employees.

You got to use systems of record powerful data sets like we have access to trillions of data sets, not billions, we have trillions of datasets that we have access to across people's money and people's health decisions.

And if we use that the right way through a consolidated mobile experience and Worklife, I know and we have shown it we can make a big impact in how employees make better decisions in the most important area of life. And there's nothing more important than being healthy first and then having enough money to retire when you when you want.

Thanks, Joe. We appreciate it.

Thank you everyone for joining us. Really appreciate the time you took with us today. We look forward to seeing many of you with upcoming conferences in the next few weeks and months. Thanks for the time.