Stephen MacMillan
Hologic, Inc. (HOLX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Puneet, let me take those first. USPSTF, we continue to think there's so much focus on this that's quite frankly a very little impact to our business. I'd remind you back in 2018 when the first guidelines were being updated at that point in time. They came out, they were against co-testing. By the time ultimately they came out as official, co-testing was put back in. We continue to feel very good about our business regardless of how they go. They also, obviously people have been focused on them for months and months, thinking they're coming every other day. We think it's a big do about nothing, to be quite candid. I feel great about our business, feel great about the data on co-testing, and feel great that regardless of how they go, the clinicians are going to stick with our business and there's going to be no change to our forecasts.

So regarding the LBT thing, I think again, great question. It's part of where I view the strength of our business. First off, I think again that there's so much focus on what I call headline risks. To be clear, the LBT stuff won't come into effect probably until at least 2028. And there's going be issues that are going be battled between now and then, legislatively, everything else, so nothing that's going to impact the business over the next three years, probably the next five. At a bare minimum, however, we love where we're positioned in that most of us with our kidding and as you well know, from a Panther standpoint, it could create more opportunities. So the LBT thing probably creates more opportunity for us than it does risk. Having said that, we really just don't think much is going to happen on that over the next few years. So thanks. We know you probably have another call you want to get to too, Puneet.

All right.

Yeah, great. I think the simplest thing on utilization is that our molecular business grew 18.9% last year, which is virtually all increased utilization on the Panthers. And we just love what we've done there. Clearly, as we said even at the start of last year, Panther placements for the next few years may be very small and frankly are almost immaterial to us growing the business, because at this point there were so many machines put out there as you know from everybody, but I think especially from us. Now it's really ramping up the menu with our existing customers. And an increased focus on expanding the Fusion. So I think the magic for us is now that we have so many Panthers installed, we're increasingly going back and getting the fusion sidecar put on, which opens up the PCR assays. And I think we continue to see years and years of growth, just even from the existing installed base, as we're expanding the menu and putting more fusions out there.

So, Ryan, did you have anything you wanted to add?

And go Eagles.

Hey, Derik.

I'll take the first part and then kick it over to Ryan. In terms of pricing, overall, we're assuming very modest pricing. Most of our gains really are volume, given that a lot of our contracts are already set with very little pricing increase. And I think it's where we're very proud of the fiscal discipline that we've been able to exert. And then getting opportunistic pricing or pricing really as much mix as we launch new products, Derik, but very little of our growth is based on pricing at this point.

Great, thanks. First in terms of the breast health business, I think we see clearly placing at least a double-digit increase in gantries this year, both domestically and internationally. We really got going more in our second fiscal quarter last year. So especially this first quarter we'll show much bigger growth for the breast health business. But I think we feel great about being able to continue to place the gantries and just based on the backlog alone, let alone the additional customers were winning.

Quick first crack at the margin piece. The way I think about it is before Ryan comes in is, I think they will basically be lower in our first fiscal quarter and then growing through the year as we continue to bleed through the higher cost, especially chips in gantries. And we're also in the midst of relocating some of our manufacturing -- basically our manufacturing for our breast health business from Connecticut down to Delaware. So at the current time, we've got double costs as we do that. And I think we've got great visibility that those gross and operating margins will be improving throughout the year. I don’t know if you want to add more to that.

Sure, we have very little in the Middle East, and China is 2%. So between the two, it's call it 2% to 3%, really. So I think we love that from the current environment. And as it relates to international overall, I think we've continued to see our international business as being clearly accretive to the growth rates of the company. And really over the last number of years, it's been a double-digit grower and wouldn't count out that it couldn't do that again this year. So we've strengthened our international businesses significantly over time.

Our breast health business getting stronger. Diagnostics has benefited hugely from all the additional Panther placements. So that's been growing tremendously internationally. And our surgical business after years of trying to work on reimbursement and getting products approved is really also starting to take off internationally as we said, a real nice grower here over last year. So I think we see all three franchises being in very good shape to grow here in 2024.

You got it exactly. Yes, we factored that in. So that's why it's actually -- yes, it's 5% to a little north of 8%.

No, it includes the day. The 4 to 7 is including, just to clarify.

Yeah, as we reiterated, we continue to focus on M&A. Right now we're just having to think that one of the great acquisition opportunities is our own stock where it's priced and we're trying to send that signal very strongly, but we're continuing to look for external M&A as well. But we just love the position we're in. So it's not a change. It's just an extra opportunistic based on where the valuation of ourselves sits right now. Thanks, Kevin.

What I'll comment on is the current attachment rate and it's about 20% to the Panther install base.

Think about all of it, actually. If you look at it -- as you'll see in the 10-K, that basically we've got the orders in place for the year. Now we're going to continue to add orders to that for further out periods, but we're in great shape coming into the year.

Sure, Anthony. On the first one, it's a great question and I don't have the specifics. I think our Biotheranostics sales team has been out there really focusing on a number of key docs. And so as they're building it up, I do think we back to the early innings, still lots of opportunity to more broaden it with both our breast health as well as even our diagnostics, OBGYN salesforce. So still a lot of opportunity ahead to your point.

Sure. On the [indiscernible] business, I'd say we had everything working for us in 2023, including the NovaSure V5 launch that did have some pricing associated, really. It showed up more as mixed, but it was a higher priced product. And then I think, frankly, procedures were pretty good. But we fired across all cylinders. NovaSure, MyoSure, Fluent, and then also Boulder and Acessa, and did it both domestically and internationally. I think as we go into next year, MyoSure, Fluent and Boulder and Acessa all continue to look as very good growth. NovaSure will probably be back to flatish to possibly down a touch, but internationally, I think again, we see international being a solid double-digit grower in the year so feeling very good about our positions. I would tell you one of the biggest surprises to me probably over my almost decade now at Hologic has been the continued growth and the sheer scale of MyoSure as it continues to really grow the category. If we think about TAMs, the total available markets, never realized how big it would be and I think we're continuing to expand that market. So feeling very, very good about that. I'll let Ryan take the second part of that.

Everybody's decided I can't handle margin questions. So I'll go ahead and let Ryan go ahead and take them.

Yeah, I think that's what gives us such confidence in the gross margin expansion to clarify that is, it is looking at the current inventory that's sitting on our balance sheet that is just going to flow through here on a effectively a first in first out basis so we can see those super high-priced chips that we got early and mid in the chip crisis bleeding through the product lines here in the first quarter. Really, by the first two quarters, most of that will be done. And it gives us great confidence as we continue to work through the year.

Thanks, Navann. We continue to scour the landscape. You know, the bankers have been all over the place with lots of ideas. We frankly are in that great position where we can be patient. You know, if I still look at the landscape today, you've got a whole bunch of very smaller companies that went public in COVID time that are hemorrhaging cash and in bad shape. And a lot of those still don't fit our criteria. So then we're looking at other things that may be a little bit more established but the magic that we have for us right now is given our growth rates, given our profitability, we've got a pretty tight hurdle rate that not a lot of things are making it to the top. So I wouldn't expect anything super imminent as we continue to look at the landscape.

Yeah, we continue to feel good about it. You know, having been in this chair in a different company in the 2008, 2009 downturn. I'm always particularly attuned to trying to pay attention to concerns about capital freezes or capital tightening. I think we just feel great about where we are both in terms of the products we've already got the orders in, as well as continuing to get new orders. So we're booking candidly out beyond the current year at this stage, and just a lot of excitement still in our breast health business. I think what's hard for people to grasp is how much we've dramatically expanded our installed base to where we're so strong in the US and so many people just still coming to us. So really feeling very good about it.

Yeah, I'm glad you asked it. I think the magic for us is it is all of the above. It's this incredible diverse growth that in very simple terms, if we actually do look almost country by country and franchise by franchise, and we were just with literally that the sales leaders of each country for each franchise in Dubai a couple of weeks ago. So I'm coming fresh off looking at all the plans. If I look at the UK, we have growth plans for diagnostics, not just diagnostics, but psychology as well as molecular in the UK. We've got plans for the breast health business and we have plans for surgical. And it is, it's bringing -- in the case of surgical, it's bringing those products into these markets. It's getting the reimbursement. And it's just been a lot of nothing sexy and no one big driver, which I actually think creates the excitement. And even as places like China have gotten a lot wonkier for most companies because we're small there, we're not counting on that for our growth. We're getting it everywhere else. But it's not sexy, But it's incredibly effective that it's literally every -- almost every franchise in every geography. And these hundreds of thousands here and there, as you keep adding them up, they become millions and millions and then tens of millions all through it. And I think it's creating this inexorable growth as we're bringing on new customers in each franchise. Thank you, Mike.

Sure, Andrew. I think we never want to over-hype anything, but we've got some neat things coming both, particularly organically in the breast health business, you know, diagnostics obviously, BV/CVs off to a tremendous start and, we're excited by that organic thing. And then working it out, but probably more in the continued singles doubles category that, hopefully over time, those singles and doubles turn into triples. I think if you look at Acessa and Boulder, they're growing very nicely, they're still very small. And so over time, I think the magic from where we sit today is we can see those franchises growing at above our company rate for the next five plus years at least. And I think that's the magic of what we have going here. So again, no one kind of back to Mike's question a little bit, no one product driving the growth, it's systematically coming across the product lines. And I think it creates a lot more durability.

Thanks, Andrew.

Yeah, it's clearly peaked. I think we've peaked up here in the last year, and now we will start to bleed that down. But we typically have reasonable visibility. By the way, it doesn't mean that an order can't be placed now, that we wouldn't ship sometime in the next quarter or so. It all depends on how they're scheduled and everything else. But I think we feel really good about where we sit.
