Stephen M. Scherr
Hertz Global Holdings, Inc. (HTZ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Thanks for the question, Chris. Look, this is a dynamic. I mean we are assessing the movie we made all of the time, not just simply on the disposition of the cars, but equally on the residual EV fleet that we had. We obviously took and are taking 20,000 cars out. That's largely to bring supply inside demand. And the frame of reference as to whether there's more to do or whether we're content with the fleet we have is going to be an ROIC, a return on invested capital assessment on the EVs. In taking the 20,000 out, think about it this way, we have effectively clipped the lowest rung of demand in terms of RPD and candidly, the most defensive component of demand as it related to damage. And so our view is that while we're taking a third of the fleet down, our expectation is that we will capture close to half, if you will, of the economic drag that's posed there.

So where does that come from? We obviously told you in the 8-K that we expect over the two years in the aggregate to recapture about $250 million of EBITDA and free cash flow of about $250 million to $300 million. So what's embedded in that? And what are we going to look at as we harvest this? Well, first of all, there's a reduction in fleet carrying cost, there's lower operating costs relating to collision and transport and charging and labor. And then we expect enhanced revenue in the context of deploying fewer cars at higher utilization than the cars we're taking out.

And on the reduced carrying cost, I mean, that's in front of us. The depreciation is captured. That's for us to take. What we do in terms of unit economics will be a function of the fact that we're going to only replace 15,000 of the 20,000 cars taken out. So these are less expensive cars, lower depreciation, lower vehicle carrying costs, operating at higher utilization so that will produce much higher margin dollars to us. And the operating costs just simply around collision transport and labor will be there. And so, A, we need to sell these cars, and we're on pace to do that at or around where our mark was at December 31. Two, we need to capture the cost savings through EBITDA and realize the cash flow that we've laid out to go get. And third, we need to make a constant reassessment. If at the end of the day, the returns that we are modeling for the balance of the fleet against the demand that we believe to be there doesn't show, then you should assume we will take more action than none.

The other aspect around this, I would point out, and this runs the kind of the expense initiatives that Justin has, is I think we have dramatically derisked the ability to go at costs unrelated to the EVs. Meaning away from the sort of clear categories of expense that we are relieving ourselves in the sale of the EVs, we are reducing kind of the operational distraction in the field in a very meaningful way. And in doing that, we will position the field to action some of the cost reduction that Justin has and will take you through. And I think that's an important variable in this.

And so look, we're about providing choice to customers. We think we've landed on an EV fleet that meets demand. But I can assure you if those numbers don't scratch to an adequate return, then we will take further action against that fleet, again, always with a mindset of keeping supply inside demand. And I think the lesson of this, if you will, is that incremental steps to wrestle down the cost elements of the EVs were not going to work and we're not going to work with the speed of execution that we were comfortable with. And as a consequence and as evident in the fourth quarter, the need to take a big bite out of this issue was one that was in front of us and we took it. And if that's not enough, we'll do more. If it is, we'll play forward with attractive returns on the deployment of those vehicles.

Well, I would say a couple of things on the fleet. First of all, on the ICE vehicles to sort of substitute in for the EVs, recognized that as we reduced down unprofitable network locations, okay, as Justin noted, we are redeploying fleet, mostly ICE vehicles back to airports and other locations. So part of the 15,000 will be vehicles that we're capturing from other locations where utilization is not sufficient, number one. Number two, we are this month at our lowest out of service. We're going to continue to drive out of service down and redeploy and use those vehicles, right, where we can. Third, in deference to cash, we're going to look to sort of manage between purchases and sales and modulate that, again, based on kind of the return profile of what those activities have. So the point I was making was that it will take 15,000 cars to replace the 20,000 cars that we're taking out in the EVs. Again, lower-cost ICE vehicles used at a higher level of utilization. We do not need to go out and buy 15,000 additional cars to make that happen. Part of that will be lower out of service. Part of that will be redeployment of the fleet around the overall network particularly as we pinch off unprofitable locations. And I think we're quite comfortable with what's there in our ability to sort of backfill for demand.

Yeah, of course

So thanks for the question, Ian. Here's what I would tell you. You need to separate out what we're forecasting in terms of EBITDA benefit from the EV sale, which we believe to be $250 million of EBITDA uplift, over two years such that, that's a round trip, if you will, relative to the charge that we took in the fourth quarter. So set that aside and let's call that the normal as it were, adjusting for the EV move. On top of that, we are coming back to the $500 million that we've spoken of before, which is a combination of new projects like Rideshare and otherwise. Second is realizing higher yield on the assets that we have, so sweating the fleet in a way that we can. And the third and perhaps the most important in the context of this call is an ability to gain productivity and pull costs out of the business.

The combination of those three things; projects, yield and cost amount to a $500 million go get. It's within that $500 million that Justin has talked about $250 million of that $500 million being realized through productivity and cost in 2024. So again, separate out the EBITDA benefit that comes back to us on the EV sale, focus then on $500 million of EBITDA addition. And within that $250 million that is a very definite productivity and cost out in 2024. And Justin can give you kind of his take on what's the makeup of that $250 million of cost out this year.

Sure. So let me start with what we're seeing in January or what we saw in January. First of all, leisure business and leisure demand is really quite strong, and we're seeing considerable volumes across the sort of Sunbelt from Florida all the way west to Hawaii, Hawaii making sort of a considerable rebound. We've seen larger inbound activity growth, and we've seen strong corporate growth, particularly in the Midwest, locations like Detroit and Chicago that are showing high volume. I would say that looking backwards, as I said in the prepared remarks, the rate of decline year-over-year on a quarterly basis is decelerating. And so we saw better performance in the fourth quarter on rate than we had seen, again, on a year-over-year basis in the prior quarters.

I'd also say that as we listen, as you listen to sort of what the airlines and the hotels and the travel industry is reporting, forecast growth which is substantial. And I think that the back half of this year holds considerable promise for us in the context of sort of economic trends that are playing, which is lower inflation, lower interest rates, and a clear view that the American consumer, in particular, continues to consume travel as an experiential good that they're looking to partake in. And so we're just seeing very strong demand. I would also say that where there are generally higher cost inputs, there is less incentive for any one of the major players in rental to sort of look to lower rate. And on that -- in that regard, I think we feel quite good about what we're seeing, both in terms of demand and what we saw as a decelerating trend in terms of decline. And I'd also point out that, as I did in the remarks, we're 40% better than where we were and stability around that number, I think, is in front of us.

No problem.

Yes. So here's what I would say, Adam, I think that had we not taken the step that we did around EVs in the fourth quarter, it would be a rocky path forward in terms of trying to sort of patch up for the continuing operational distraction and the cost that we were otherwise incurring on the bottom third of that fleet. And so I think by taking that step in the fourth quarter, we've set ourselves up with a much clearer path to sort of the reconciliation of our cost structure to a revenue line that is strong and sustainable. This company is not experiencing revenue intake or demand. What it was and is experiencing is a cost challenge. We pinched off the single largest component of that cost challenge, which is the EVs. And as I've said, if we need to do more, we will, but reducing a third of that fleet puts us in a better position.

It yields out certainly on depreciation and a short view on a reduction in expense, and it promises to carry lower direct operating expense relative to our ability to meet that demand with ICE vehicles. I think secondly, it sets up Justin to achieve the elements and items in his cost out that he reflected in the prior question. And I think these are in front of us, and this is not sort of a blueprint. These are actions that are being taken right now. It therefore gives us confidence that against a very good and solid demand rate and revenue backdrop, we have a path where we've already taken a very big down payment in the charge we took in the fourth quarter. And therefore, a transitional year means that in 2024 we are executing against the reduction in the EV fleet, against a series of very precise cost-out elements that gives us confidence that we won't be in a position where the covenants will come into play and that we will emerge at the end of 2024 into 2025 with a much better cost structure against which we can engage on a level of demand that is in front of us.

And I think equally, if one forecast for what the back end of this year might look like, much as I'm not relying on that for the success of Hertz, but lower interest rates and continued demand and lower inflation spells well both for the core element of demand in the business, a control over cost, and equally stability to residual prices, which lends itself to an easier execution across the whole. And so that's what I'm referring to in terms of transitional and kind of a little bit of my own mindset about how the forward is accomplished.

Hey Adam, let me take it first, and then I'll pass it to Justin. The fleet plan that we have for 2024 is to meaningfully reduce the age of the fleet. I mean by several hundred basis points in terms of the percentage of cars that ultimately will be 50,000 miles or older. So that's the path that we are on in the context of the first part of your question be about the transition. The second is that we do have homes for cars that are not otherwise being rented to premium customers. So for example, growth in Dollar and TNC, I'm not suggesting that these are cars that wouldn't want to be rented, but these are older cars that have homes for them. And I think that's an important sort of element to think about in the context of a comparison to others, where our Rideshare business is not sort of common to the others that are in it. But the fleet in our current fleet plan is meant to become -- or meant to be rendered appreciably younger, both in age and miles. And I'll ask Justin to finish up on your question.

Adam, I'd also say that, obviously, in rendering your fleet younger, it is one-part buy and one-part sell. And I wouldn't take the comment lightly in the context of our access, unlike others, to a proprietary retail network and Carvana and others like them, in part because in a declining residual market the delta historically between wholesale and that retail can be 10% or greater. And so the ability for us within the balance of what we're trying to do in a transitional year, to dispose off fleet at prices that are not necessarily reflected in what you see in indices that track wholesale auction will be a benefit to us in the context of managing the financial element of this kind of fleet rotation.

No, that's an excellent question. I would say the following. I think the long-term proposition around that business is a good one. I think that it's not to be ignored that against the financial model, if you will, at the time that Hertz entered this when it came out of bankruptcy, a number of things have happened, not least of which is the deployment of Tesla has become a more expensive proposition because when the MSRP came down, the residual came down, and the depreciation went up. And obviously, the experience around damage has been elevated. So if you think about your revenue intake and you deduct your cost of the car, largely depreciation, you deduct damage and then you look at other expenses, it yields a positive margin, but not near that, which it had initially -- or we had initially intended it to do. So we need to rotate the sort of cars in there, and we have obviously reduced down the number of EVs that are in there. And the forward will be deployment of less expensive cars, which will render that business more profitable.

The other thing I will say to you is that this business for drivers that are in our car for an extended period of weeks. So in other words, when you get past four weeks or five weeks of a driver in that car, the economics are very attractive, meaning you need to get through the initial underwriting of the driver, and some experience of that driver in the car. Because when you get that combination of a well underwritten driver and a driver that has experience, the margins on that car are very attractive in part because the maintenance and the turn goes down, the driver is keeping the car an extended period just as the model held. The damage level is low because the incident level is low because the driver is experienced in the context of the EV, perhaps they hadn't been at the start.

So the real challenge is to get by. If you will, the cost of acquisition on the driver because the margin on the longer-term driver is very, very attractive. And you should assume that we are working with Uber and Lyft and others to sort of overcome that issue. And so I know that's a little bit more than sort of a yes or no answer, but it is a finesse business model, and I think it works. I think we were thrown a curve relative to sort of how it modeled out from the start, but I think that's the direction we're going. And I think that's an attractive business as a general matter, but we need to work through that underwriting segment of it.

Sure. So I would say on the $250 million of EBITDA recapture over two years in the aggregate, I mean, roughly speaking, I would say it's 50-50, over 2024 and then 2025 and then obviously runs, okay, as a permanent fixture in our overall EBITDA production. On the separate $250 million of cost out that Justin was referring to, you should view that as cost coming out and materializing in 2024 and to carry forward on a run rate basis as we move. Again, that's a byproduct of both productivity and cost.

Well, I think EBITDA in 2024 will show to be higher than what we produced in 2023, taking account of the EV charge that was otherwise taken in Q4. So I think we'll see a higher level of EBITDA production in 2024 relative to the reported number in 2023.

Well, I think on the EVs, obviously, they are being sold out now, much as the depreciation has been stopped on those cars. So depreciation should fall pretty quickly in the context of that zeroing out on the chart itself. Obviously, the cost will be reduced down as progress is made on the sale of the 20,000 vehicles, which is running at pace. And we're obviously quite incented to see that happen quicker than longer. Maybe I'll ask Justin to comment on kind of the pace and when you'll see some earlier, some later in the context of the categories he's focused on.

Well, I think you should always assume that we obviously follow all of the recalls and make sure that we comply with necessary rules and laws as it relates to that with respect to the rental car industry. I would say on the recalls, at least in the past with Tesla, they've been over the air recall, so software adjustments that have been made. And so it is easier to execute on those recalls. But that's largely how we're dealing with all of them.

No problem.

Well, I would say that remember, we spoke about several points of margin as the effect of EV relative to ICE. So think about that as a $70 million to $80 million drag in the quarter in the context of overall cost. I would say that wholly independent of the specific entry categories of expense, and I made this comment earlier, I think the implication has manifested in the fourth quarter of the EV challenge, which in part motivated us to take the charge and the action that we did is the spillover effect and the distraction on the field more broadly. It meant that we were running with personnel higher than we needed to. It meant that we were incurring transport costs higher than we needed to. All of those or both of those, I should say, are not linked, if you will to the EV itself and the way in which we refer to several points of margin. But the spillover effect on our cost base was becoming to widespread and therefore, taking a bolder action to arrest that trend by pulling down a third of the fleet was the choice that we made. But I'm giving you that because there's an effect that's related to the EV fleet, then there's sort of the collateral impact on broader cost that was there. And I think you're equally right in the context of uplift to RPD that we can get by virtue of, if you will, removing sort of the worst performers among the EV fleet in terms of RPD and the like.

Well, listen, they should trend lower. And remember that there were a series of steps that we were taking to try to address both the elevated damage and the elevated cost of damage, including as Justin referenced. We just didn't begin to negotiate with the OEMs on lower labor and lower parts cost. But at the end of the day, that was not going to make a sufficient difference, to sort of put us back on track as fast as we wanted. So therefore, the reduction mattered. It also means though that those measures that we were taking will have greater effect on the balance of the two thirds of the EVs that are there. And if they don't, then we'll move more aggressively on that fleet size. But the effect of the cost out, if you will, on the EVs is more effective against 65% of the standing fleet as opposed to 100%. And again, taking out the biggest defenders of RPD and the biggest offenders of damaged incident and therefore, cost will translate into what I was saying before, which is probably a 50% reduction in that, notwithstanding only removing a third of the fleet itself.

Well, I mean, listen, from a methodology point of view to try to get back to what you would view to be a normal number, you need to reverse or pull back the benefit of the EV sale right, of $250 million as we've been forecasting over the two years and sort of start yourself from there. And then it will be a question of the pace of achievement of the $500 million that we've talked about, which is both revenue and productivity and cost. I think that there ought to be heightened confidence in the ability to take the cost out and ascertain the productivity gains as we represented we will do to the tune of $250 million by the end of 2024. And so half of that $500 million should be seen by the end of 2024, right, with progress on the $250 million of EV.

So listen, it's hard for me to sort of put myself in your place and understand the assumptions you want to make about the broader market and the like. But there's $250 million of EV and there's $500 million to be had. Of that $500 million, $250 million is in the first year, namely 2024. I think you then need to make assumptions about whether you believe that the deceleration in rate decline and the extent to which we are 40% better than where we were pre-pandemic holds, I don't see a reason why it shouldn't as we hit sort of a more normalized position. I think that -- as it relates to residuals and how that weighs on the industry, no less ourselves, again, there you need to take stock of the fact that while we have seen precipitous decline off of the very elevated levels that existed in 2022, the reality is, is that the age of cars on U.S. roads right now was less than 10 years pre-pandemic. It's now at about 12.5 years.

Number two, there's a structural short of good quality used cars because they weren't made in the pandemic. So off-lease cars are lower. If you further believe that we will come upon a market toward the back half of the year, where auto loans will be more attainable and at lower price, that cocktail of factors should lead you to believe that there is at the very least stability in residuals, if not an uptick that could come at the back half. Again, we're not gaming, if you will, or modeling necessarily for that. I'm just giving you in response to your question, sort of a sense of where do I think rate is, where do I think residuals are kind of wholly independent of the tactical moves that we're making to reduce cost.

Yes. Well, I guess first principle is that we should continue to hold supply of cars inside where we expect demand to be, so that we can run at a respectable level of utilization and I think we're not of a mind to have capital deployed against cars that are simply not going to be used. There are obvious variations in demand quick moves, troughs, and peaks. And so you need to hold cars for that. Our view has been not to chase low-quality demand even if it meant that utilization sort of falls. So there is a baseline of holding supply inside demand. And then there's the execution in the moment where I'm not of a mind to sort of chase low-quality demand that's not expressing sort of sufficient RPD. And so the combination of those two should hold us there.

In terms of the broader sort of optimism or confidence on stability, candidly, I look at what you look at, which is I look at whether there is motive to sort of drive price down by any one of our competitors. I don't believe there is. There's no world in which lowering price brings more demand to the industry. It may split share, but share has been very stable across the majors, across a variety of markets. So there's not an embedded incentive. Nobody is making a decision to take a business trip or not, or to take a vacation or not because the rate on the rental car is $5 higher or lower. So there's no particular incentive across the industry to lower rate as if it's going to generate industry-driven demand. And there doesn't seem to be a chase for share on that basis.

And then again, sort of stability in what we're seeing across travel, in fact, growth that's being forecast by airlines and hotels, these are to our left and right in the context of where they deposit our customers at the airport. And so to the extent that travel continues, you should see us rationalize as Justin was saying, our off-airport locations maintaining sufficiency of network, which I think is very valuable to us, but redeploying cars to the airport where these travelers are coming and optimizing to price at the same time.

Remember, the -- generally speaking, the agreements that we have long had with the OEMs is sort of a broad understanding about aggregate number of cars over some number of years. The commitment is not final until model year when price and trim and the like is all decided. By the way, that runs both ways. They're not obligated to deliver any more than we're not obligated to buy under these broader agreements. And so we put the pause on obviously buying EVs, except to the extent that they were packaged with other ICE vehicles, but it's a deminimis amount that's there. By and large, we will be net lower for sure in the context of EVs based on the sale and based on a very deminimus number of EVs that come in.

Sure.

Yes. So let me take the second one first, which is I think that -- we've always tried to sort of manage leisure and corporate so as to manage intra-week like trough period. So the corporate contracts we have need to stand as profitable in their own right, but they do put the car to better, more normalize, smoother use, if you will, over the course of the week. To the extent that there's a return to what was in terms of normal sort of employee and corporate behavior that inevitably will benefit us as it does the airlines and others. So we shouldn't track differently than they do in the context of the benefit of returning back to what's otherwise defined as normal.

In terms of optimism for the second half, I mean here I'm just referring to kind of more macroeconomic trends that would benefit sort of various components of our business. Obviously, the first one is demand and the proclivity and inclination to travel. So if things -- if inflation comes down and interest rates come down and there is a higher degree of consumer confidence that springs from it, that inevitably will be better for the travel industry, not limited to us. The second component of that was the comment I was making around residual pricing of used cars, which is December into January is historically a low period in the context of volume of activity and the like.

Typically, Presidents stay weaken and then as you move into spring is a more kind of buying period, if you will, around residuals. The comment I was making was, what are the factors that drive that? So we'll see seasonal movement, the question is whether the curve lifts up or stay sustained elevated at the back end. And I think the positive drivers of that as to whether or not they happen, we'll see will be lower interest rates, structural short in the used car market, and the extent to which the average age of the car is getting old and people will be compelled to recycle their car, if you will, on the forward. Those are positive leading indicators in the context of what you think or should think that market will do. And if that happens, that will be a benefit to us.

Okay, we want to thank you all for your participation today. Before we close the call, I'd like to thank our employees for their continued hard work and dedication over the year. And without whose efforts, none of this would be obviously possible. In closing, we look forward to sharing further updates with you on our next call. And with that, I'll turn it back to the operator.

