Stephen Westhoven
New Jersey Resources Corporation (NJR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So Tanner, I think you described it right there. We've got a number of options we're able to grow or deploy capital, I guess, more quickly in order to accelerate that growth. You can see the CapEx program at utility increasing due to customer growth and other factors of clean energy. We've got a large pipeline of projects at CEV. We've got potential expansion, although nothing has been announced at our S&T Group. So you have all those factors pushing forward. Added into that, the fact that we have less need for equity due to the cash flows from Energy Services. It's just to build a strong platform for future investments. So I'd like to think about it is that we've got a good plan, solidly built going forward to hit the 7% to 9% growth and then the potential for additional investments, should any of the things that I've just mentioned it.

Hey, Travis.

Yes. I guess I'll take the strategy. It hasn't changed from where we started. We've got a few different stages of projects that we're able to purchase and acquire. We started developing, but certainly not opposed to buying late-stage projects or even ones in operations. General strategy is to be able to build, develop and own within regions and jurisdictions that are favorable in our risk profile. So I'd say New Jersey like, if we get outside of New Jersey, which we have, I think, 40% of our projects to date are outside of New Jersey or 40% going forward are outside of New Jersey. We're really looking at the risk profile, making sure the regulatory environment is favorable and really matches what we like to say is utility-like earnings across the whole company. So that's the way we're looking at it.

I wouldn't -- I'm not going to take anything off the table. But to date, you know, you've seen the size of projects that we're doing anywhere from a few megawatts up to 25 to 30 megawatts. So smaller in nature when you look at large scale utility-like investments and I think that niche market fits us well not only from a return management perspective. That being said, I think we certainly have the capability to manage larger projects. Again, this is all really focused on returns and risk profile of the jurisdiction in which we're making the investment.

Thanks, Travis.

So what are you looking for Robert? I'm not sure what the question is?

No, I think the whole strategy associated with our S&T business to be able to get on to organic growth with those assets. And certainly, we've got a growth mindset in those businesses. So, yes, we've got some small investments that we're making now tied to some contractual arrangements and I think moving forward, it's been a secret that storage is being expanded in the Gulf Coast. And certainly, pipeline infrastructure in the Northeast is difficult to build greenfield expanding existing pipelines is much more -- is much easier. So when we look at those two facts, we look at expansion. We've got nothing to announce now, but it's certainly something that we look at that could be outside of the plan.

Thank you.

