Stephen Steinour
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (HBAN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Manan.

Erika, this is Steve, I'll start with that because you've asked a broader history. And then secondly -- so first, we do think the discipline on our aggregate moderate-to-low risk appetite, which has been in place now for 14 years has been a [indiscernible] and it has helped us as we've decided with this just to pursue and whatnot to see.

With that in mind, we've been very purposeful and strategic about growing these businesses. And you saw at the Investor Day a mid-teens rate of growth in like a specialty banking. So we have a very strong middle market core banking set of capabilities. We have a tremendous amount of small business capabilities and capacity. We have market density in Ohio on small business and we're achieving that now in other states. So the core sort of regional banking franchise is performing very-very well.

When you add to that these specialties that have been put in place, just three new ones last year, which by the way they're all off to a terrific starts. And then the expansion. We've been in like Dallas and Charlotte for a decade or more. When we see opportunities, we then pursue them. An example of that is in the Carolinas, where we believe we've got fantastic group of new colleagues coming to us with teams in to some -- just outstanding people who we've been following for years and it all came together. We were investing, others were not and there was some moment to be dynamic.

In addition to that, we still have opportunities in these TCF markets. We are doing incredibly well in Michigan, but I would say, we're early-stage still in Chicago, the Twin Cities and Denver. And we like those markets, each of those margins. So we believe with the investments we made in specialty banking, the core regional bank performing well with opportunity, we've got lots of growth potential in the next few years, and that's where the -- I didn't talk about the asset finance business. So our distribution finance business is a horse. They had a phenomenal year last year. Our auto business is one of our best businesses. We've got one of the really terrific teams in that area and Floorplan has done very, very well in terms of its growth as well. So lots of growth options.

The equipment finance more broadly, a lot of growth options in that, and we're seeing that through the cycle. And so, we believe we're poised to outperform and budget it and expect our colleagues to do so in the coming years. This is -- I can just talk on two things. First of all, thanks for the compliment on the guidance and all the credit to our terrific Investor Relations team. But just, one thing I would add on top of that is, we were pretty purposeful about staying on a growth footing across the board, and importantly, in terms of the financial resources and investment that we're putting against our core growth opportunities. And recognize that the net outcome of that, including some of the other things that we wanted to do in terms of data automation capabilities, would result in an overall expense growth that was higher than we would want to have relative to revenue growth, higher than we would typically target. And it certainly was something we discussed at length, as you know.

But we took that view purposely and recognized it was contrarian, because in our view, the long-term earnings potential of staying in that growth posture is so much more advantageous than worry to have really significantly rationed back investments and expenses. And so, a bit of short-term challenge with respect to operating that will yield very significantly better earnings growth trajectory through the course of 2024 and 2025, the earnings outlook looks exceptionally strong as well. So just to tap on Steve's point, I think the whole system is really working and [indiscernible] results here.

Good morning, John. On the capital front, I know your CET1 increased nicely, about 15 basis points to 10.25 basis points in the fourth quarter. Just as you look at their trajectory here and your outlook for earnings and capital, organic capital generation, how are you thinking about potentially ramping up buybacks and capital return overall? Thank you.

And John, as Zach shared with you in the third quarter call, we are advancing as if the pending capital requirements are in place. So we're building capital now that will meet those requirements should they be adopted.

Well, that's a series of questions, John. I'll try to answer them, but I may miss on one aspect. Let's just back up for a moment. We had three idiosyncratic banks fail. And you've seen the rest of the industry sort of adjust and adapt and respond very quickly. And the core strength of the industry, I don't think, is in question now. For us, we believe in having a very focused, disciplined, and broadly diversified set of businesses. And we've been able to build those and achieve that posture, and it has served us very, very well as we've seen in the second half of last year and continuing to this year. So we're very bullish on our ability to organically grow and expect -- and that's our focus. We'll continue to do that. You may see further announcements from us this year in terms of organic growth moves. And I expect that we will continue to be maybe a bit contrarian, but agile as we continue to advance. We think we have tremendous opportunities already in the business lines that we have.

So in terms of scale, I think the regulatory response is in reaction to those three failures, is raising questions about how much [indiscernible] will the industry or banks will benefit from in the industry over time. The expectations have clearly increased, as they should. And we are investing in our risk management platform. I think I shared on the third quarter call, for example, we will have much better intraday visibility of [indiscernible] in the near term as a consequence. There are a series of things like this that we're addressing.

Now, I don't know the -- we've been investing in risk management since I arrived in 2009. So I don't know how we compare -- really compare to other banks. We've always viewed the stress test results where we've been top quartile or even leading in terms of the portfolio stresses by the regulators as a barometer. And it looks like that was a very good measure, at least at this point. So we're not anticipating a change in posture at this stage. We don't feel compelled. We have to do something. And yet, at the same time, should there be opportunities somewhere in the future, we take a look. But it has to be in a risk-adjusted context that makes sense to us. And I don't see that activity in 2014. I think we've got a tremendous amount of core growth to deliver and we're excited by that.

Thanks, John.

Good morning, Steve.

Good morning, Jon.

So, Nate, it’s Steve. The charge-offs -- gross charge-offs in Q3 and Q4 were $2 million apart. It was very, very similar. The difference was in all of their coverings. The pre-portfolio is performing very well. The office portfolio has had minimal losses, 23 bips for the year. Q1 charge-offs is outstanding. We're very pleased with how the performance has occurred, and we're confident going forward. Thanks for the question.

Thank you for the question.

Good morning, Ebrahim.
Well, we've had growth last year of 2%. If anything, I think the signal from the Fed pivot will foster further loan growth for the industry. We are in an advanced position. And so, we'll capture a share from that, but we also have these specialty banking initiatives in the Carolinas, and they begin with no portfolio, so there's no prepayment, repayment risk, obviously, and that's all net long-run, but those groups are off to terrific starts. We're very, very pleased with the quality of the colleagues who've been able to attract to Huntington, and I'm quite confident in our teams, both the core teams that they'll deliver in our footprint, the speciality banking teams. And frankly, our consumer lending teams are outstanding as well.

So as we come into the year, we've got momentum and we're going to continue to invest in these businesses and that cumulatively should help us achieve or even exceed the goals.

The markets have -- broadly speaking, we're talking about 11, 12 states that were in with our network. But here in Columbus, which is what you're referring with the [Intel] (ph) plant. That plant is well under construction, and the supply chain commitments will largely be made, we think, this year as they move towards opening in the following year. So we have some unusual factors that are strengthening the outlook here in greater Columbus. And we have very, very significant market share here and lead by a lot in most categories. But it will also benefit the broader region. And that's one of just many sectors that have chosen the Midwest. Think about batteries from East Michigan, Ann Arbor, through Columbus, and some of the announcements last year, including the Honda joint venture here in greater Columbus on the battery front. There's a lot of investment that's being made in the core footprint, all of which will generate economic benefit for the industry, and certainly for us with our leadership position in many of these areas. Thanks for the question.

So I think we're hitting the top of the hour. I'm just going to wrap. I want to thank you very much for joining us today. In closing, we're pleased with the fourth quarter results as we dynamically manage through this environment. We believe we're well positioned. Investments we made in 2023 will further drive revenue growth in 2024 and beyond. Our focus is on driving core revenue growth, carefully managing expenses to support investments in the business, and growing loans consistent with our aggregate moderate to low risk appetite.

The management team is focused on executing our strategies that we previously shared. And as a reminder, the board executives, our colleagues, we're not just shareholders. And that creates strong long-term alignment with our shareholders generally. And finally, we're grateful to our nearly 20,000 exceptional colleagues who delivered these outstanding results and our perennial award winners for customer service. Thank you all very much. Appreciate your interest and have a great day.