Stephen Bratspies 
Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks, Scott. And good morning, Jay. I think when you think about the sales plan for the year, the guide for the year, obviously, we felt with our current environment and understand where we are in, and sales have been challenging, there's not doubt about it. And the consumer environment has been difficult for us as we go forward. But we're starting to see improvement in that space, and we're pretty confident in the numbers that we delivered for the year. When you look at Champion specifically, we think the business is going to drop in the first quarter and first-half of this year. And we're taking actions to make sure that we clean up the channel ahead of our fall/winter '24 line that's going to be launching.

And this is going to be a progressive growth throughout the year. Obviously, retailers are being a little cautious, but that category has been clean. Our collegiate business is going to be on a more normal cadence. That the fall/winter line that we're going to be introducing in Champion has gotten really strong response from pinnacle accounts which, of course, is really important to set the tone for the brand. We're going to be ready for a replenishment chase model in the back-half of the year. And we're going to be spending behind the brand, and really support this. So, we think that brand can grow in the back-half of the year, and start to pivot to a much more positive space.
And the same thing for global Innerwear, I'm really pleased with where we're headed in the global Innerwear business and the share gains that we're seeing in this business. We've got pretty good forecasting analytics to understand where the category is going to be over time. And we're going to continue to take share. The category was down 5% in Q4, and we took a lot of share, and we're expecting those trends to continue in the early part of the year but then to improve. So, with our innovation that's coming, with our media that's coming we're going to be leaning in. And we think that the back-half is going to be better than the front-half, for sure.

And that leads to all the margin opportunities that Scott talked about. We're really confident in the profit outlook for the year. And there is some conservatism built in. As Scott said, we have a lot known savings that have been included at this point. So, we can adapt to a volatile top line environment, if it occurs.

Sure. Let me start with the space gains. I've been really pleased with the space gains that we've been getting in key accounts for us. A lot of it -- not all of it is driven by innovation. So, the product that we're bringing to market last year with Hanes Originals, if it's men's, women's, kids, across the board, M by Maidenform that's now launching, and as we then include the new innovation that's coming this year with SuperSoft and anti-chafe, are all taking incremental space.

So, that's the good news, as we sell in we're all gaining space. And the other thing that's going on and I don't want to talk about specific customers, but if you go out and you look, you'll see us taking permanent space away from other national brands, and that's our base business. And that's because the business is performing better, and turning factor for the retailer.

So, they're making those choices, and there are some obvious ones going out there. The other thing that I think is really important, and I got this question the other day as we were having a discussion, I think it's important, is private label is not playing the role that it had been in the past. And actually private label is losing share in the innerwear market right now. So, that's opportunity for us to continue to go out and gain that permanent space as well. So, it's broad, it's across categories, it's across channels. And then we're pleased because it's going to drive our business going forward.

Sure. So, from an inventory perspective, we don't break it out by business, but closing the year at 1.37 puts us in a really good position. I think we're balanced across our portfolio. Our inventory reduction actions and process improvement through management capabilities, life cycle planning, SKU discipline, that applies pretty consistently across the business.

So, the actions we're taking are consistent and we use the same methodology and same mindset, if you will in philosophy of how we manage inventory across the business. So, we feel like we're in good shape across the total business. In terms of sales, maybe I'll go a little deeper then on some of the things that I talked about earlier. We have pretty good understanding, particularly in Innerwear, of predictive capability, where the market is right now and understanding where it's going.

And that's based on forecasting analytics and predictive algorithms that are tied to historical correlations of the business along with macroeconomic metrics, so we think we're in pretty good shape of understanding where the category is going and we think it will improve throughout the year. But for Innerwear, if we look at where we are today, there's some shipment timing things, there's some inventory actions things, the innovation timing, all the innovation that we're bringing, which is going to be our biggest year yet. 2023 was historical year, we're going to have another one this year on top of that with the launches across Hanes, across Bally, across bonds, which I'm very encouraged about and we're going to lean into that with some media spending at higher levels than we have in the past. So, I think you're going to see a ramp in the Innerwear business as we go forward, and I'm comfortable with that.

And in Champion, it's the same thing. I think this business is going to drop out in the first-half. And we're taking a lot of actions to prepare ourselves for the Fall Winter business that's coming, so that we're clean and that we have enough room to settle that in and it's flowing in well. Retailers are a bit cautious, but we think the cleaning up that we're doing is working well. And then, you're going to see some, the college business is going to rebound for us. It's been choppy over the last couple of years. I mean, last year, the heat that we had in the back-half of the year affects that business. We think it's going to be a more normal year. The Pinnacle accounts are excited about our business that's coming in. That's going to land in the back-half. We are focusing more on a replenishment model than a made to order model this year.

That's going to allow us to leverage our supply chain strengths and capture demand in real time. So, we have a process around never out SKUs, that's more disciplined than it's been in the past on Champion. It's going to help drive that business. We're going to be spending more behind the brand. The marketing campaign that we've been driving is working, it's working globally and we're going to lean into that. And there's spots around the world that are continuing to grow, like our China growth has continued to accelerate with our partner there. So, we think the business is going to move forward throughout the year. We've got a lot of activity coming. We're ready as a company. We have the cost structure in place.

And Scott, as you mentioned earlier, the profit is going to come with that in the back-half. So, we feel like we've got sales kind of nailed down and we've got programming to drive the business for the year.

That's correct, Ike.

Yes, we do have seasonality with the business. But as I look at '24, I would just kind of hold more of a steady gross margin rate is what I would anticipate and I would guide you to throughout the year. The cash flow is seasonal. Typically in the first-half, it's more of a breakeven cash flow, the cash flow is more generated in the back-half. But I think from a gross margin standpoint, I would say that again, more of a steady. Again, like I mentioned earlier to the earlier question, we have great visibility to the cost, right?

And so, from input costs that are lower, the cost savings that are also on the balance sheet, we can see this roll out over the course of the quarters. And again, and that's not all on the guide. We've not baked all that in. We took incremental conservative assumption from a profit standpoint to make sure we can derisk and hedge from a sales outlook there.

Yes, thanks for the question. I think when you go back and you look at last year, the category was down about 3% and then it decelerated a little bit in Q4 to about 5% and we're expecting a little bit of that continuation into Q4. When you go back and you look at historically, this category has been roughly a 1% unit growth business. And we would expect that the category is going to bounce back to that. You go back and look over the last four years, all the volatility that we've had through supply chain and everything that's gone on, it's been certainly a volatile couple of years.

The category has actually grown roughly that 1%. I know it doesn't feel like that, but you've had a huge spike of 21, and that's been down, and our growth during that time's been about 2%. So, when you look at this in macro, the category's actually been behaving at historical levels, and we've been outpacing that category, and from the beginning we've been saying our goal is we're going to grow two times the category rate, and if you look at it over four years, that's what we've done.
Again, it doesn't feel like that quarter-to-quarter and it's very, very choppy, but we expect that the category is going to return to historical levels. It's going to be a good stable category at which you take share in, and we're better prepared to do that in the past. There was a time when we were losing share. There was a time when we weren't growing, but we pivoted that and that reignited of our innerwear business is working now and the innovation we're coming this year is going to be a big impact on that.

Thanks, Carla. The global champion number, historically that number you were using is roughly right. Obviously we've talked about the strategic process that we're going on through right now, so I don't want to be sensitive to the numbers that we share, but that $2 billion number, the business has declined a little bit the last couple of years, so it's a little smaller than that by maybe $200 million or $300 million is roughly the number we use.

Sure. When you think about that business, it's seasonal. So, you have your spring, summer business. You have your fall, winter. So, there's a lot of resets that happen every single year. The key is to show up with innovative product that's very consumer relevant and very brand relevant. And I feel like coming into fall, winter, we have good job of that, and our customers are very receptive to what we have. So, I feel good about our space and where we're going to play and how we're going to compete in the market. When you look historically at what's driven down the business, part of it's the category. The category has certainly struggled over the last couple of years, and we are certainly no exception to that.

That said, we have declined faster than the category. And that's why we're going through the big changes that we've gone through as a business, really refocusing on creating heat behind the brand, which we lost, making sure that we have a very clear product and channel segmentation strategy as we go to market, building behind the Champion, what moves you campaign. We're operating as a more global company than we have in the past, so that we're working on global platforms for product which makes us much, much more efficient, faster to market. So, we put in a lot of strategic initiatives to address our performance in the market. And they're starting to come together and that's why we're starting to see the business is going to improve in the back-half of this year as that strategy is realized.