Steven Vondran
American Tower Corporation (AMT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Well, thanks, Simon. Thanks for the good wishes there. I'll take that in a couple of pieces here. So I'll start out with what do we mean by the highest quality portfolio. And what we mean by that is, we're constantly reassessing all of our portfolios, both domestically and abroad and rechallenging all the decisions we made about capital allocation in the past and say, do they still meet our investment criteria. And if there's a challenge in the business, our first choice is to say what can we do to fix that? How can we get it to meet those criteria?

And then the second thing, we would look at is ongoing capital allocation and is it a market or a business we want to continue to put capital into. So when we talk about the best quality portfolio, what we're saying is that we continue to look at that we found our assumptions there, and I did mention in my comments that if you look at a market like Nigeria, the macroeconomic conditions, including some of the FX translation issues have caused us to raise the bar in terms of acquired returns.

So when we talk about that portfolio, we're looking at the market, the asset class, the demand for the assets, the contract structures we have in place, what types of contractual protections we can get for something like an FX devaluation, and we're shaping the portfolio for that. Now having said that, there's nothing to report beyond what we've already talked about in terms of the strategic review we did in India.

We've been very clear that we're going to exit that market. We did exit Poland because it wasn't to scale for us and we did choose to exit Mexico fiber. And we'll continue to look at those other businesses that we have and make assessments on those. But there's nothing I would point to today to say that we're going to make any portfolio changes in the near term.

The second question, I think you asked was how do we think about a market like Nigeria, and we believe that the emerging market portfolio is still an important part of our growth algorithm going forward. And we think that having the appropriate level of risk there to complement our developed market strategy will continue to allow us to elongate our growth curve over time there.

We are mindful that there are some near-term challenges that we're seeing there. And you're seeing that play out some of our capital allocation decisions as we're rotating some of our discretionary CapEx for developed markets versus the emerging markets. You've also seen that play out in recent years with some of the inorganic acquisitions we've done.

We did inside in the U.S., CoreSite in the U.S., Telsius in Europe. And those all had the effect of reducing our emerging market exposure, divesting India will reduce our emerging market exposure if we continue to allocate more of our development CapEx to developed markets versus emerging markets, that will also decrease our margin market exposure.

So what you're essentially seeing play out there is us rebalancing our portfolio a little bit in response to the macroeconomic conditions that we're seeing, which we think is the appropriate thing to do in any environment is to look at the portfolio and rebalance it. And so that leads back into that highest quality portfolio.

The second question I think you had was around CoreSite and what are we focused on there? Right now, most of our development CapEx is focused on expanding our existing campuses. And if you look at how that business has performed, we've had two years of record leasing, and we need to replenish the capacity that we have sold in those campuses. And it's a very good use of our capital.

Again, we're looking at stabilized returns in the mid-teens. And if you think about the projects we have in our development, they're more than 40% pre-leased as of the end of the year. And so when you think about that business, pre-leasing is something that wasn't as prevalent in CoreSite pre-acquisition and that pre-leasing really reduces the risk of all that development, and it shortens the time period that it takes to get to those stabilized mid-teens returns.

And so that's why you're seeing us pick up the investment there a bit. We do evaluate some Tier 2 markets in the U.S. You saw us buy a small data center in Miami, and we'll continue to look at whether there are sort of tuck-ins that we might want to do in the U.S. if we have an anchor tenant that's going to give us a good return going into it. And if we think it can turn into a more material campus for us later on. But it's not a huge priority for us. You're not going to see us put a lot of capital into that.

And with respect to international expansion in data centers, that's not something we're leaning into at this point. We do have customers that would love for us to have a larger footprint than we do today. And we'll consider those opportunities. But there's nothing that I would point to today to say that we're going to do anything outside the U.S. in the near term?

Thanks, Michael. Thanks for the well wishes there. So I'll start with your first question about the U.S. So we are predicting our guidance for OTBG in the U.S. is approximately 4.7%. And as you know, that's underwritten largely by our comprehensive MLAs that we have with our carriers. So we have a degree of insulation from the variability that you see in the deployment cadence there. We do have one of our big three carrier MLAs that has rolled off of its comprehensive portion of that MLA. And so that's gone to a little bit more of an a [indiscernible]. So you'll see that activity spread more through unloaded like it would have been in a comprehensive agreement.

What we're seeing from the carriers in the U.S. is we are seeing an uptick in the conversations around activity. We've seen a modest increase in application levels already this year that's off to a pretty low base at the end of last year, but we are seeing some increase in activity. But before we get the applications, there's a degree of conversation, an inquiry that happens with our carriers.

And especially with respect to our services business, we have a lot of conversation around that. And we're engaged on the front end of the process when they're doing their RF design sheets and trying to figure out what they're going to do for the year. And that's what's led us to believe that there's an uptick in activity, probably back-end loaded, and that's led to our increasing our guidance and our services business for next year.

Now I would point out that if you look at our services guide, it's a little bit lower margin than previously. That's a result of having a little bit more construction services in that guide. And I do want to point out our construction business. That's something that we've not grown aggressively over the past. And when you think about that services business, we don't do that nationwide. We do it in pockets where we have the right resources and can you lean on third-party contractors to do the work.

So if there are variabilities in the demand that we see there that we can cut our costs pretty quickly there. So that's one of the things we're seeing reflected in that services margin is a higher mix of construction services. But again, that's targeted by region, by carrier and it's not a huge business for us, but it's 1 that we think adds value to our customers, and it earns us a little bit more business.

Okay. I'll start with the first question, and talk about the U.S. growth. So I would just point out that as a result of our comprehensive MLAs that our revenue is decoupled from the levels of activity to some extent. So I think comparing us to someone else's estimations of leasing new business is a little bit tough, just given the fact that we have a level of locked-in activity. And a large part of our rental growth is, it's locked in, it's either signed because it was signed last year, it's commencing this year. It's part of our comprehensive MLAs or there's a degree of carryover revenue and the OTBG number carries forward because the trailing 12-month metric there.

The better analog for activity is our services business. And as we've said in the past, it's notoriously hard to predict exactly where you're going to land. A couple of years ago, we had to take guidance up quite a bit. Last year, we brought it down. So what we're providing here is, our best estimate given the levels of activity we're seeing, but also some of it can be more market-driven. So it may be activity in a particular market versus more ubiquitous activity, given that that's how we're performing some of that service has worked.

We do see a general uptick in conversation from our customers that make us believe that there will be an uptick in the second half of the year. But as you think about that activity and the service levels of the -- service business with that activity, you have to do quite a bit of services work before you actually sign a new lease, if you're driving an a la carte environment. So it could just be timing that we're referencing there.

But at the end of the day, our belief is, our property revenue growth or rental growth is largely locked in, and we feel confident in the portion that's not locked in, but that will come through in the cadence, we believe. And on the services side, we believe that we'll see a continuing ramp in that activity and that's what led to the guide on that.

Sure. It's hard to give an exact time line, Rick, because it's different by different customers. So I would say from application to revenue showing up on an a la carte basis, there's a variability there from call it, 60 days to six months kind of what you referred to there. It really depends on the customer and how urgent they are to get on the site, to be honest with you. In terms of the cadence for the contribution from the new leases and colocation, it's relatively flat across the period. Again, I just would point out that we had the comprehensive portion of 1 of our major MLAs expired at the end of last year. And so that got rid of some of the front-end loading that you saw in previous years. So it will be more evenly distributed this year.

Yeah. Rick, I'll take that one. Look, we didn't take the decision to hold the dividend flat lightly on that, and we were aware of the optics problem with a step down from Q4 to Q1. But we had committed to our shareholders to a certain dividend in 2023 and when we decided to hold it flat in 2024. If we didn't have the step up in Q4, then we would have -- then we wouldn't have hit the number that we had committed to.

And so we like to do what we say we're going to do, and that's the reason we kept it there. And we think this has been very well telegraphed. We're trying to be very clear on our Q3 call about what was happening, and we've talked about it since then. And this is a one-time event. And so agree that it wasn't -- it's not the ideal situation, but we wanted to do what we say we're going to do and handle the dividend flat.

So I'll start talking about the M&A environment. Look, we continue to monitor what's going on in the M&A activity across the portfolio. We're still seeing a dislocation between public and private multiples. And so there's no portfolio out there today that's trading that we think is strategically important that would meet our investment criteria. And that's one of the reasons that we're a little bit out of that market right now.

One of the reasons that we're very focused on bringing our leverage down to the high end of our target range is to make sure that we're in a position to take advantage of inorganic opportunities when and if they come to market that we think are strategically important, but also to meet our investment criteria. So we're optimistic that there will be portfolios in the future that are something that we would be interested in. But right now, there's just nothing that I would point to you that we think is, is trading in a range that we would find compelling.

I'll start with some leasing trends, Rod you can pick it up. So what we're seeing in Europe is we continue to see build-outs by the carriers. And we do see substantial 5G population coverage from the leading MNOs in Germany and Spain. So the pipeline of growth that we see remains solid, but it's more weighted toward colocations. In Germany, we are continuing to work through some of the market complexities that everyone's dealing with there, including some permitting delays and time for power connections.

But we do feel good about the progress we've made there. We've brought in resources from other parts of our company to help with that and kind of utilizing best practices. So we do expect some improvement in our time lines there. So that's what we would expect to continue to see in Europe. There's a little bit more colocation driven activity and they're through the bulk of their 5G upgrades in most of our markets.

So I'll start with the data center question. In general, with CoreSite, what we're seeing is demand is still largely driven by enterprises moving to hybrid cloud environment. And that's people who either or either cloud native or primarily cloud or they were still in their on-prem facility, that's still a major driver. We are seeing AI inferencing pick up in our facilities. We've always had some AI applications that we're targeting our facilities. So we are seeing demand there. More broadly speaking, AI is reducing overall capacity in the market or overall supply of the markets, which is leading to some favorable pricing trends for us.

When it comes to the Edge deployment, we do think that AI inferencing in particular, in the interface people have with AI will lead to opportunities there. Right now, the near-term opportunities that we're exploring are more niche markets. You may have seen one of our partners put out a blog that we're working with them on an Edge facility kind of in the automotive market to update software on their products.

We have a number of POCs that we're working on with various partners that are more niche applications in particular. I think the micro data centers at the base of the towers, facilitating AI is still a little bit further out. And we'll continue to update you guys if there's something to talk about there. But in the meantime, we just continue to work with our customers or potential customers on iterating on what that's going to look like.

Sure. Well, the record amount of sales that we've had is what's led to increasing the development pipeline there. And it really depends on what our sales are this year and how we continue to see the opportunities in that portfolio evolve as to what the future spending are. So it would be premature for me to kind of guide future years' capital there. What I would reinforce is that we have a degree of optionality in our capital spending and that we do have a structure with CoreSite where we also have partners in that business.

And so there is some optionality in terms of how much capital we put in, and you could see us using our capital or somebody else's capital to expand if we thought that was a better option for us. But at this point, the development pipeline we have today, we're choosing to sell fine because we're achieving mid-teens stabilized returns, very low risk in our existing campuses, and we continue to see demand rise. So we'll make that assessment into what's appropriate for 2025 and later a little bit later, and we'll share that with you guys at the appropriate time.

