Steve Oakland
Treehouse Foods, Inc. (THS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, sure, Andrew, I'll take that. Yes, most of the pricing that we pass through are contractual price throughs on commodity, up and down. Deflation and inflation, they go through automatically. Coffee is a great example of that. It's so volatile that most of those contracts have a deflation - have an escalator and de-escalator clause in them. it's interesting when you mention promotion, in the - we all know that the fourth quarter was a much more promoted quarter for CPG, almost back to pre-pandemic levels, not quite, but you still saw private label gain share in the quarter, right? And I think we talked about, on this call, we talked about the basket being about $18, right? The peak last year was $20, right? So, even in the most promoted quarter of the year, there's still a pretty substantial gap between private label and branded. I was disappointed quite frankly, that we didn't see more private label promotion during the quarter. We had the inventory to do it. But I think quite frankly, the performance of it relative to brand, gave the retailers confidence that they could deliver their numbers without doing it. So, we actually would look forward to a little more promotion on our side.

Sure, let's talk about that. We guided a midpoint of 1% growth for next year, or for this year, I guess it is now, for 2024. And if you think about a macro environment where units are flat and we've guided deflation, that means we've got to have a couple percent unit growth to make that happen, right? And so, we just think guiding stronger than that with the uncertain consumer environment isn’t prudent at this time, but in order to meet the guidance that we have, and we wouldn't do that if we didn't see the strength of both our underlying business and our new businesses, we think you've got to grow about 2% to make that happen.

It's interesting. Private label is a - broth. Private label is a great category for us, and we have - we've had to allocate to our customers, given that we're producing significantly less. I'd remind you that we have two broth facilities though, right? We have ramped our Richmond Hill, Ontario, plant up to its maximum capacity. So, we are losing some sales. I think the customer recognizes both the quality and the service they've had from us up and to this point. So, there'll be some customers that probably have to source broth somewhere else. But I think we've built enough reputation that we'll work our way through this, and our broth business will be significant going forward.

I think just because of the risk, we have been cautious in what we've guided here, right? I think we've guided very cautiously here. We do run a world-class broth facility, so we know where this one was and where it needs to be, and I think we have the right resources. We've not spared a penny to make that happen, right? We bought this business 10 years ago, right? Treehouse bought it 10 years ago. It has been a drag on the results since then. I think we recognized in the third quarter when we faced, look, we should really recall some of this product. We stepped in and did a full recall, or I mean a full rebuild of this business, and it's capital, it's people, it's process. So, it will be a world-class - it'll be a driver for Treehouse when we're done with this. It has historically been a drag. We addressed three of our worst facilities in 2023, right? We started with the cookies. We talked to you about that early in the year. We addressed some legacy capital needs in our dough business, and cookies and dough were drivers in last year, and unfortunately you didn't see that because of this broth piece. But I think we will have the three riskiest parts of our business addressed when we finish this. And we think our ongoing maintenance programs will be sufficient to make us a much more reliable and consistent vendor going forward.

Yes. And I would also say, there's probably a few facilities that are unionized. And those tend - the labor impact of those tends to happen when new contracts are renewed, right? So, that has a little bit of a lag in the expense until the contracts are renewed. And I would expect those contracts to be renewed at more favorable labor rates for them. So, I think we'll have a little bit of labor inflation going forward, but as Pat said, it's not what we think of when we think of the risks in our business.

Sure. So, remember, price gaps are now returning to historic levels where private label grew, okay? And those are percentage price gaps, not penny price gaps. So, 20% of a product that now costs $4 that used to cost $3, right? So, the moment of truth, I think the old AG laughy comment about the moment of truth right in front of the shelf is when the consumer walks up to the shelf and looks at both private label and branded. So, we think even in the promotional environment that the absolute penny gap is so significant, along with the better quality assortment that our retailers have in front of the consumer right now, we need eyes in front of the shelf, right? Private label price decisions are made at the shelf. So, if you drive traffic to the shelf, we hope categories grow, and we're confident that private label will get a share of that category growth given the absolute penny gaps that are in front of us now.

Well, and Rob, just so you know, we do aggregate all of our 26 facilities. So, the broth plan is one of them. And so, it did probably tamp that number down just a bit, right? And it will tamp it down in the first two quarters. But that gives you a sense, even with that, last year we grew 5% in OEE right? Now, to be fair, Treehouse was not at the top of the OEE hill, right? We have some room to grow, and we have - that's why there's the kind of cost savings in our network that there is, right? There is substantial opportunity in our network, and the good news is, we're making progress at attacking it.

Yes, Rob, I mean, the reason we're so confident to guide what we've done is there is new business in pretzels, coffee, pickles. We actually have visibility in the contracts that'll start January of 2025, right? We've got some awards that that go that - that's how far out some of this stuff works. So, when we saw you at the Investor Day, we were presenting those things. They are now in the pipeline and we'll see those on the shelf over the course of this year and into next year. So, yes, we have great visibility into that right now. Now, sometimes the date pushes a month or two. We've been conservative so that we won't be impacted if that happens, right, but they're - the visibility is pretty good on that right now.

Well, I think you just articulated it right. We don't see the need, given the cash flow we'll have this year, to increase our leverage significantly. We think we can execute our capital allocation strategy. It'll be invest in businesses to drive depth in the categories, right? Make us more attractive and better operators. It'll be invest in our plants so that we don't have events like what we had in the third quarter, right? It's to fortify that supply chain through CapEx and maintenance. There'll be some automation expense, right? There'll be some investments to make us more efficient and let us apply labor at those places that are high value. And then it'll be maintaining that balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders, right? So, we really feel like the transaction and now the paydown of the note allow us to do all three of those things.

Carla, the other thing I would say is, we’re really proud of our current debt structure, right? Our 4% bonds and with the swaps, the rest of our debt is incredibly priced to the market today. And so, we think that investing some of those funds in our business and returning to shareholders, makes a lot of sense right now. So, I think should that change, we'll look at it differently. But given the fact that overnight deposits I think pay equal or more than what our debt structure is, there's no real reason for us to pay a lot of it down in a hurry.

That's correct. Yep.

Yes, and freight availability, I mean, the key is, as the economy slowed down a bit, freight is much more available. And so, it'll be interesting over time if that capacity drives carrier rates down, right? I think we've seen a little bit of that. The spot rate has come down, but we'll see what happens as we go forward. The best thing is we've got great availability. We're able to be on time in full because the carrier shows up on time. So, that was not the case as you know a year or so ago, but it is the case today.

Sure. And if you would've gone back a year, you'd have seen coffee there, right? And so, I think what we're doing is we're showing you the categories that we feel are good consumer categories, but we need to make some investments to give us the kind of depth and capability to make us that preferred vendor with a customer. So, the Northlake Coffee - we call it our coffee center of excellence, but the Northlake Coffee acquisition has had an enormous impact very, very quickly on the coffee business. We would like to do that in the tea business. Our septic business, we think we're doing the right thing, right? And we think we were there. We will be back there. And then if you think about things like liquid beverages, that's a very small business for us. That's our ready to drink mostly coffee beverages, and we just think we're subscale there, right? We do a lot of niche producing there, but it's subscale and small. So, it's those kinds of things. And in-store bakery, which we think is a great category, we're a cookie provider, right? So, we participate - we're the largest scale provider, but in only one category on that table, when you walk in a grocery store and you see that big in-store bakery table. So, is there an opportunity for us to maybe use that connection with a customer and that infrastructure to have more placements on that table, right? It's that simple, right? We simply make the best frosted sugar cookies on the table, but we really don't participate in the rest of it. And so, we would look at capabilities, and maybe that's a foreshadow of places where we do at least hunt for capabilities, whether they be build or buy.

Sure. I'll take the first one, and Pat, maybe you take the second one. I think, look, we had thought that our cookie plants and our dough plants were under-invested in for a number of years. They were run incredibly hard during the COVID period when you couldn't do that kind of maintenance. And so, we knew those were areas we needed to invest. We caught those last year. We had funds planned in 2024, quite frankly, for broth, and the broth plant just needed pull forward. But I feel like the autonomous maintenance work we're doing, we have invested in our engineering organization and our maintenance teams. I think our ongoing efforts will keep us from having the same kind of problems in the future. So, I think we're addressing maybe the last real risk that was in our system, and quite frankly, drag on our financials, right? Broth should be a driver. This Cambridge facility should be a driver, and that's what our goal is. It has for 10 years been a drag.

I did guide, though, that given the maturity, especially of TMOS and the progress on the procurement exercise, we have more projects in place and more run model savings in this plan. And so, I think it sort of de-risks the plan so far this year.

Yes. I'd just like to thank you all for being with us today, and we look forward to sharing our progress as we go on this year. So, have a great day, and we'll talk to you all soon.