Steve Gunby
FTI Consulting, Inc. (FCN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll give you a high-level answer that Ajay disagree with me or add to it however he chooses. Look, there is nothing that has me concerned about the long-term demand structure of our company. Actually, one of the concerns I have is to be under higher in the second half of the year, which you can't see aggregate utilization things because we have so many little sub businesses that even if the aggregate is x, a subpart of that business can be at 30 points above x. And so when you under-hire, you sometimes end up in different places around having to turn down work. So that worries me.

And there's always variation. As Ajay says, we don't know the revenue in July at this point in time. I mean, there's always variation, but there is no underlying concern about the overall growth potential of our company. I will say that. I think the two-year growth in here is pretty consistent with where we've been over the multiple years. I think '19 was extraordinary in '20, as you pointed out, was less and so forth. So this is in line with our two-year numbers, but I think that's more coincidence than anything else. But I hope I answered. I am not worried about long-term growth if we do the right things, continue to do the right things about getting the talent and supporting them, James. Did I answer your question?

Yes. Look, let me be clear. I'm very excited about the people who are running Compass Lexecon. I mean I spent -- it was over in Europe at the beginning part of this year with Jorge and three people who are running Europe underneath them, Lorenzo, Neil and Kirsten, I mean I got to tell you, there's nobody at person on this call who wouldn't love having time with those people. Jorge, the guys who founded Compass Europe for us.

I mean it's been an amazing growth engine, but he's built a team underneath him. And as great as Lorenzo, Neil and Kirsten are -- I went spent time in Spain, and you see -- and Brussels and Paris and London, I mean there is an amazing, amazing place with multiplicity of talent. The US, as you know, Ampere, I'm not sure that a more distinguished powerful, incredibly respected and impressive person and professional services, and he's sees these leading -- I guess, the title as his Chairman, but he's a father of Compass Lexecon in some ways. And I mean there's multiple fathers, but he's an incredible asset. I think probably people know Mark Israel less well. Mark is very different than them, but they're very different personalities, but -- and these are cap generation, younger, maybe a little more than half generation, younger and is equally as impressive.

So we have an amazing leadership team, and they're all focused on building it. Just to put the point on the table, we had a senior person leave. It's always unfortunate when one senior person leaves. And I would say that the circumstances around the departure were particularly unfortunate, but it doesn't give me any lack of confidence in where this business is the position it has and the ability of that leadership team to take it forward, not only that leadership team, but the people below them. Does that answer your question or speak to your question, James?

Yes. Look, so I think there are for every company, right -- well, first of all, let's be clear, right, everybody has definitive opinions on new technology, which means some of it is right, some of it is wrong and you figure it out over time, right? But it's obviously an area we're focused on. And I suspect, and I think the team that's looking at this within the segments and across all believe that this will change some of our businesses. I mean this has already happened.

I mean our tech business, our e-discovery business has been using machine learning for review for years now and they're cutting edge. And they know that if they fall behind on the changes, it doesn't matter what success we've had. We won't have it going forward. To the contrary, actually, their ability to innovate has been one of the reasons they've been outperforming the industry in the last few years in terms of emerging data and so forth. And so that mental mindset is the way we are looking at this. And we're looking at this within segments.

Each segment is looking at both of those questions. What's the threat? Which way is can it lower value-added? Presumably, I wasn't around. I don't think you were around when people did handwritten spreadsheets. But you can't build for handwritten spreadsheets and then a recalculation of handwritten spreadsheet these days anymore, right? Excel made a difference on that. And the same thing happens all the time. So yes, of course, 13-week cash flows. Are we going to need as much time to do it? Or is it going to take less. These are all the questions we're asking across the business.

I will say two things. Right now, I would say none of us feel like there's more threat than there is opportunity, but we're monitoring both. The other thing I would say is universals in the face of new technology are always a little scary. But our firm is not a commodity firm. Our firm is -- we're talking about Speciale in Israel.

I mean you're in the middle of a huge litigation, you want one of those persons with their capabilities testifying for you. And I think it's -- will their AI help streamline some of the preparation that makes our people more efficient. I think it's going to be a long time before you have a computer testifying in court. And the same thing is true for any sort of crisis situation, which is crisis communication, M&A crisis. And I think that's our firm position there. So as long as we do the right things and challenge ourselves, I suspect we will be fine. If we get lazy, we won't be. But my job is to help us not get lazy. Does that at least talk to the question?

Let me talk about the competitive pressures and I'll let him talk about deferred revenues. Look, I think you've noticed, Tobey, and we appreciate the comments you write about the success we've had. Unfortunately, competitors also noticed that, too. And so we are routinely attack. Now the reality is, so far, we are hiring many more people than we lose. But it remains we have to be on our toes on competitive comp, and that's across the board in our company. And so that's a reality of life. And I mean that's at a high level, the answer to that.

I'll let Ajay talk to the other point.

Yes. Look, let me clear. I mean we didn't have a massive outpouring of people. Our attrition levels for last year were well below our expectations and below prior last -- at least the prior year and maybe the year before that. I don't remember the year before that right now. We did. The real issue was I took the action I mentioned of tapering hiring. Well, let me be clear. I got recommendations to do, and I reluctantly agreed to do that. I'm probably the more bullish guy on headcount, one of them are bullish people on headcount. Ajay, is more -- my quarterly conscience and I'm more -- look, what do we need to do to make this business where we want it to be in the next two to three years and who the hell cares what the utilization is this quarter.

So we have a yin and yang within our farm. But I agreed to a substantial tapering of headcount just because of the conditions that was in the middle of the year. So I think we ended up the year, this year lower than we probably should have, well, lower than if I had known how strong the year was going to be, I would have guided us to, so we're going to have to make that up. Because our goal is not to maximize the profits in 2024.

Our goal is, and it's not just work, is to sort of build a business that you and we can see the next tripling of earnings, and frankly, most of our people don't care about the next tripling of earnings, but we do care of a team that is winning, that's tracking great people, meaning the great assignments just happens to be that is consistent with a multi-year trajectory. So we are going to have to -- we're going to have to make up for some of the shortfall in hiring this year. And so I would be very surprised if it's not up over last year, and much more in line with what we've been doing over time. Ajay, I don't think we give more specifics than that, do we?

So I'll -- let me give a top-level answer and then Ajay wants to give more specifics. Look, the dynamics are different around the world just because, a, sometimes economic situations are different and sometimes there's -- if you remember from the COVID days, their government policies interfere. But also, it also depends on what parts of the restructuring we're in. In the in the US, we are in both company side and creditor side. In overseas many places, we are primarily creditor side and there's a timing difference. The company will often hire you months before they have decided to do a filing the creditors, don't course or not usually. And so there is those timing dynamics, which vary around the world and, frankly, meant that I think the US was busier earlier than many places around the world. And that those dynamics change over time. So that's a kind of a high level answer.

I don't know, Ajay, do you want to give anything more on top of that?

Look, I've got a lot of confidence in that business trajectory. I will say that I hope I've said this in the past, but I always hate it when somebody looks at 2019 as a benchmark for our company or our business because that was a place where we got caught short on headcount, and we had to make it up on a couple of years later. And so I can't remember what the utilization was for FLC. But I know we were like sold out in Europe, and we weren't answering the phones on new leads for some places because of the business we had.

So look, it's a weird thing because you say 60% or 65% utilization and you say, how can we be sold out? Well, part of it is -- I mean, I can tell you how we account for it differently than other people, but part of it is just the sub parts of our business. And so you can have people who are just 100% utilized or 90% utilized and when you have that. And so I think we're on the right trajectory in FLC. It's one of our growth engines, and it is making progress on it. I think the upside is enormous. So if you're asking me, is just as good as it gets? No, and do I have in patience for us? Of course, I do. But so do the team leading it, and I feel pretty good about it. Does that at least talk to the point, Andrew?

Andrew, let me close. I think we're out of time. Let me just maybe add to that and say, look, let me express sympathy for all the analysts on this call, buy side, sell side anybody, you guys try to figure out where we're going to be in the next quarter. And it's hard, as Ajay said, in the next -- each of the next quarters, it's very hard to be definitive on that. What I think we can be definitive on and I think the last 10 years have shown is if you focus on getting the right people, the right attitudes, and the right capabilities, and you support them, you don't know what the damn quarter excuse me that don't know what the quarters are going to look like.

But what you can put the company on is a multi-year trajectory that is up. And that is something that is predictable. And we've predicted it and we can deliver on. We've delivered on it and we can so I'm sorry, we can't be. I wish you luck on the on the quarters. It's just hard. It's hard, but I just want to make sure I underscore the definitiveness of our conviction around the multi-year trajectory.

All right. And thank you all for joining the call. We really appreciate your attention and support.