Steve Hedlund
Lincoln Electric Holdings, Inc. (LECO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And Saree, it’s not only the quoting activity, but also the order intake on the capital equipment side is signaling to us that people are still spending money to invest in productivity despite the higher interest rates.

Good morning, Bryan.

Yes, Mig, I think you summarized it well. As we look at the automation business, we expect continued growth based on the activity we see in the market today. So that would be above the guidance for the overall business. So obviously, there’s parts of the business that are lagging. What are those parts? It’s early innings in terms of seeing a turn in the macroeconomic indicators, particularly in Europe. So we’re cautious on Europe. We’re cautious on things that are consumer facing. So the Harris portion of our business that is retail and HVAC focused we’re cautious on that.

And then, as you pointed out, there are some large end users that are themselves being cautious about their outlook for 2024. And so that that just tempers our overall conservatism approach to it. There’s still a lot of pressure on our people and our teams to outperform our conservatism. And so we hope that as the global economy starts to accelerate that that we’ll see our business improve as well.

Yes, Mig, we’re still in the commercialization process for this product. We’re a new entrant into the market. I think we’ve done a very good job of cutting through the clutter and a lot of the vaporware that’s out in the industry. We are engaged with dozens of large potential customers, all of whom you’d recognize we’re talking to the right people. We’re working through their testing and validation protocols. It’s a long selling cycle based on the capital spend that they need to make and the potential risk to them of making a wrong decision. So I expect that we’ll take the balance of the first half of the year to get through that process, and then we should be able to provide you more clarity on how we think that will ramp up in the second half.

Good morning.

Yes, that’s correct.

It’s really hard for us to forecast that for you, Nathan, in particular, because there are so many factors outside our control and so many factors outside even our prospective customers control in terms of grid connections and civil construction and permitting and their own capital deployment plans. So it’s really premature for us to be able to give you a ramp up horizon, really.

I expect that we would know more after the end of the first half as we work our way through this process. We’re also fortunate that a lot of these prospective customers are enthusiastic about our value proposition, have asked for us to execute NDAs with them, so they can share with us in more detail their capital spending plan. So I’m hoping we will have more visibility later in the year. I just don’t have that visibility to share with you now.

Nathan, I would just add, just for clarification, it's not necessarily been that automation has been the priority for M&A. It's just been the most fertile hunting ground for us in the last couple of years. We continue to be very active in the rest of our business and looking for M&A investment opportunities. And as Gabe mentioned, as we sit today, the pipeline looks fairly robust for us. So we're optimistic that we'll be able to deploy the capital effectively and productively, consistent with our capital allocation strategy and our disciplined approach to investment.

Yes. Yes, Walt.

Yes, Steve, I would agree with that assessment. And I would base that really just looking at our view of our own operations, right. We continue to be challenged with labor wage inflation. We continue to be challenged with the need to make the hard jobs easier in our factories so we can reduce the demands on our employees.

And when you look at the interest rate environment, yes, it's elevated from where it was two years ago, but it's not an obscenely high interest rate environment. So a lot of the projects that we look at for our own factory and I'd say in parallel that our customers look for in their factories are still very high return investments. It's really the ability to absorb those investments into your factory that becomes the rate limiting factor.

Well, Steve, there's always room for improvement, right. We have a continuous improvement mindset. So we'll make tweaks to various elements of our organizational model as the business continues to grow and evolve. And in particular, as we look to capitalize more on our global scale and scope, particularly in things like R&D.

And as I alluded to in my comments, global procurement. But as we sit today, we've got very solid momentum. We've got many opportunities and catalysts for growth in front of us. We've got a strong and experienced team that can capitalize on that. So I really like the position we're in, and it's really just fine-tuning our approach to a few things to enable us to take the next step forward.

Hey, Robert.

Well, I think you get one follow-up. I'm surprised you want to use it up so early in our relationship, but that's fine.

Yes, Mig, the team in Harris has made a number of operational improvements in the business to make us more efficient. I would also point to you that there's different segments within the Harris business and the retail and consumable HVAC portions of the business that were down, tend to be the lower margin drag in that business. So the part that was performing gas equipment tends to be higher margin. So there's some favorable mix in there as well.
