Steve Lawrence 
Academy Sports and Outdoors, Inc. (ASO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks for the question. So, how we would characterize it is we have a challenge customer, not necessarily a challenge strategy. We really believe in obviously the long-range goals that we put forward out there. If you go back, as you pointed out, we obviously had pretty strong growth in - 2020 and 2021, then we saw a pullback in '22.
We think that was the start of the rebase lining coming out of COVID that continued into '23. I think as we got through '23, that's why we put some commentary in there around. We're starting to see the kind of the builds on a weekly, monthly basis return to pre-COVID time periods. We feel like we're past a lot of that rebase lining. What we're dealing with right now is primarily a challenge customer, and I think that's pretty well documented.

Obviously inflation continues to be pretty high, consumer debt's pretty high. What that's really translating into, is a customer who's behaving in a specific way. They're shopping for newness, they're shopping for value, and they're coming out and shopping at key time periods during the year when they need to shop, whether it's a replacement cycle as a kid starts a new sports season or a gift giving time. And so that's really how we modeled our business and built it moving forward.

Yes, that's correct. I mean and that's why we went into some pretty good detail on that. I mean, it stands for reason. Where we've got high brand awareness, we're seeing those store start out very, very strong. And some of these smaller markets where we're going in with one or two stores at a time, is taking a little longer to build brand awareness.

We're changing kind of how we think about modeling these new stores going forward and building performance, which we detailed in the call as well as on the supplemental material that we provided. But over time, I mean, the expectation is that these stores are going to have a 5-year ramp with outside growth in the first five years.
Over the next five to 10 years beyond that, we would accept them to continue to grow maybe slightly faster than the chain, and settle in around the average of what an average store volume does for us. But new stores, new markets, low brand awareness are definitely a little more slow to start out than stores in existing markets with high brand awareness.

Thanks.

I think you said it best in your question, Kate. It's not a renewed focus. It's always a focus for us. We see ourselves in our customer see us as the value provider in our space. And we deliver value on a multitude of fronts. A lot of that is driven by our private label, which is about 22% of our total business. We have strong, strong value in those items. And they're priced every day at really low prices, compared to like items in the marketplace.

At the same time, we also deliver value on a lot of well-known national brands where we provide a price, a split ticket price on there where we're selling that at a slightly lower price than competitors are selling at an MSRP. And then the third way - we deliver value is promotions. And so, we generally aren't a promotional retailer, but we certainly do promote during key time periods during the year, certainly holiday being one of the biggest one of those.

And I think we leaned into those three different ways to deliver value for holiday. And we think that's what we saw in inflection during Q4. We saw a negative three, six comp versus a negative seven, six at running through the first three quarters of the year. So we think that that really kind of broke, through during that time period. So I wouldn't say it's as much a renewed focus. It's just a continued focus.

And then looking for ways to expand it. And that's what the customer is telling us, they're voting on. So you're going to look at ways that we're going to add some more, we call them key value items. So really, sharp items on well-known categories like bikes and grills at really sharp prices. We're expanding some of the offerings there. And I think you're going to see us continue to lean into promotions during those key moments on the calendar when the customer is really shopping.

Yes. I mean, obviously we have really strong partnerships with our vendors. I don't see any reason why they wouldn't support us to the degree that they've supported us in '23 and beyond. I think that candidly we're seeing more vendor support on a multitude of fronts, not just obviously margin of price support, but on marketing and other initiatives, because they look at us as a growth partner.

And that means we're getting access to more products, newer products, more innovative products. It means better support on the marketing front. So, we actually see our vendor support growing in the future, not declining or maintaining.

Thank you.

I think you stated it correctly the first way you said it, the way we see the quarter progressing or the year progressing is, and obviously customers still under pressure. That didn't change as we turn the page 2024. So we think that's going to continue into the first part of 2024. So we do expect Q1, to be the softest quarter. And that's how we model it. We expect Q2 to build upon that. We expect the back half of the year to be better than the first half of the year.

Thanks. Appreciate it.

Yes so, we'll probably tag this one. In terms of the comp progression I think it plays out exactly as I said before, where we see the first quarter being the weakest. You know it's certainly we're coming out of Q4 last year, with the down 3-6 trend. If you look at - one of our guidance it's negative forward, which is basically in line with that. And then as you progress forward through the year we expect the Q2 to be better and then obviously the fall will be better than that. So you can kind of model it based off of that feedback.

In terms of margin puts and takes you know there's several right and Carl's got a long list here. A couple I just hit on is, private brand continues to be a tailwind for us. They're mixing into a higher margin mix and private brand is a big tailwind for us. Promotional intensity is kind of settling into a more normal life state moving forward. So I don't expect that, we're going to see a tremendous uptick in promotions. Carl I know you've got a couple you want to hit on as well.

Yes, so I would say in general a theme we've seen happen over the past a couple years, is new ideas have done very well. So a lot of the new brands you've heard us mention like L.L.Bean or Bogg Bags continue to do very well and we're expanding a lot of these categories. You think last year, we've had Birkenstocks and a small number of doors or Ufos and a small number of doors we're expanding those very rapidly.

We've got new brands, we're introducing this year like [Crush City Baits] that's already off to a fast start. So new brands are working for us, and we're scaling them out very rapidly. In terms of larger legacy brands, where they're a little more challenged. We're partnering with them, around making sure we've got a strong pipeline of innovation, flowing out to our stores.

And we're optimistic as we partner with our large brands that we're going to start seeing that, turn the tide as we move through 2024. We've got great partnerships, I think Carl called out on the call Nike that's been one of our stronger businesses that's certainly our largest business we're having that work has been a really good thing for us. And where we've got some brands that are a little softer. I think we've got good plans in place with those teams to turn them around and get them moving in the right direction.

I wouldn't say we've seen prices coming down, certainly there are places where we've negotiated better deals on things, but we haven't seen as freight settle in that necessarily translate through a ton of cost reduction so far. But we continue to work and negotiate with vendors on that front.

Thank you.

Yes, I'd start with I'm not sure I agree with the premise of the question. We can tell you we look at market share on a monthly quarterly annual basis. We use Circana as primary source for that and if you look at Circana data, they will tell you that we picked up market share broadly across the business in 2023. We'd also say that we picked up market share over a 4-year stack pretty aggressively considering the fact we're still up about 25% versus where we're in 2019.
And I would also say when we look at our comparison in footwear and apparel to other retailers in general, the results I've seen as others have called out and gone through the earnings cycle for the most part are at or maybe a little better than broad-based retail. I mean we do have a competitor, who is out performing us right now. I think we have a different customer than they have.

I think, we've got a more middle income consumer, versus a high-end consumer. We've certainly seen the high-end consumer continue to spend a little bit more than the middle or lower income consumer, is a little more pressured. So one of the ways we combat that is continuing to build out, the better best end of our assortment and get access to more premium product from our existing vendor base like a Nike like a new balance.

And we've had some really good success on those fronts. We continue to bring in new brands, so that we're ahead of the curve there. And have them in some cases first to market and it's going to be a journey for us as we move forward. But we are not losing market share, the data doesn't really support that, and we actually like we're picking up market share from every data point we see.

Carl and I are going to tag team this one. I'll start on the margin front it's a question that I think every retailer asks themselves on a regular basis. If I promoted more would I see a higher sales trend and you certainly understand the math is Michael that if you sell you know a discount of 25 off, you got to sell 33% more units to offset that.

And so, what we've seen candidly throughout the course of 2023 in part of '22, is when we've leaned into promotions during kind of non-peak time periods, when the customer is not willing to shop we've seen a trade down in AUR, and we haven't seen an offset in terms of unit growth offset the sales decline. So, we've been very thoughtful about where we plan our promotions, as we talked about.

We plan them around the big market share moments on the calendar, like a Mother's Day like a Father's Day, like an Easter, like a back-to-school, like a holiday. Ad that strategies work for us, I mean if you look at our margin our merch margin for Q4, it was down about 50 basis points. We had offsets and other lines to help pull the total gross profit up, but we did certainly lean into promotion a little bit during Q4.
And I think that that definitely helped. So I think, you'll see us continue to run those plays as we move forward, but broadly promoting all the time we don't think is the pathway to success.

Yes. No I think you ask this question last time too. We don't have any updates on that front I mean as you know that you're right. Those are two of the hottest brands that are out there. We would love to have access to those and as I've said before I don't think it's a matter of if it's when - we continue to have dialogue. And we'll continue to put our ass out there, right now we don't have access to those.

And so, our mission and our plan is to win with the brands we have access to. And I think you're seeing that play out in some of the successes Carl called out with Nike particularly some of the higher end running shoes that we've gotten from them. Brooks a great call out there, Brooks has been absolutely on fire for us. We're seeing great success in brands like New Balance and other running brands.

So, we're going to win with the brands, we currently have. We're going to continue to try to get, the brands we don't have access to that the customer's telling us what they want. And we're going to continue, to seek out more brands that and incubate new brands earlier in the cycle. So that we're not trying to catch them when they're hot, we're going to have them at the moment they start to turn.

So you'll see that and that's not just a footwork conversation. I think that's probably across the store, we've got - to get better at getting newness in the stores and I think, the teams really rallied around that, and you see that and a lot of the new brand initiatives we've called out. And we're going we're going to scale them very quickly, and make them big and important. So that we don't have to have a conversation about why we don't have access to a whole coming on going forward.
You are.

And Anthony I just, I want to tell you, you don't have to apologize for asking the same questions, a fair question we always look forward to the challenging questions you put us to us.

Thank you.

Yes, it's a great question. So I would say a couple things, first we installed the new CDP last summer. We spent the back half of last year testing a lot of different use cases in terms of customer reacquisition customer acquisition. I think as you move forward you're going to see us lean into a couple of focuses first. Traffic is a challenge, I mean the traffic for and transactions for Q4 were down mid-single digits.

Our goal is to drive more customers coming into our storm drive traffic. So I think you're going to see us use, the CDP and working with our various agencies and partners to generate more lookalike audiences. And to really start filling the top of the funnel up that's going to be a big focus for us. I think you're going to also see us then look at our high-value customers and look at ways to get them to shop with us more frequently and move people up the identity ladder.

And have them become have some customers, who are more occasional shoppers become more loyal shoppers, and move them up. So I think you're going to see a multi-prong focus there, but new customer acquisition and driving traffic is number one. And then moving customers up that identity ladder, to shop with us will be the second focus. In terms of more personalized promotions, I think you're dead on I mean that that is the future.

And that's where I think we're ultimately headed, we're probably a little behind on this one that being said, it's an opportunity for us. And I think you're going to see us as we learn more about our customers have more one-to-one marketing, and to have more targeted promotions. I think that will allow us to pull back on some of the more global promotions that we do run and that will be a journey to move forward. But there's definitely an opportunity for that and it's something we're looking at very closely.

Our goal is to have it in place sometime this year so pre-holiday definitely for sure. If we can get it in place before back-to-school we'd like to, but we want to make sure whatever we roll out is fully vetted and we're very comfortable with. That being said what I want to make sure you understand is, we see this loyalty program as being a long-term build over time.

This is not something we don't want to come out with a bunch of benefits the customer may, or may not want. We want to make sure whatever we include in the initial rollout, is something the customers told us that they value. And so, you're probably see us take some things that have resonated well with our credit card customer, which is kind of the basis of our loyalty program and extend that more broadly to a broader range of customers. And then, test into new capabilities as we progress forward. So it'll be a slow burn and an add over time, but we definitely want to get something out in the marketplace, before holiday.

Thank you.

Yes so, I'd go back to answer probably last question first I mean we're investing in opening new stores, because it's critical to our future. And so we are going to keep pushing forward on this pace. Now that being said we're moderating it a little bit, right. So this year candidly we guided 15 to 17 new stores, we probably could have opened up a few more stores this year.

But we pushed some out of Q4 into Q1, and next year so, we could get more densities - going into the new market. And so, we're trying to be very deliberate and thoughtful about how we pace out these new stores, it's kind of going slow. So you can go fast in the future. In terms of the volume expectation, I think it's really driven by what we described in the call.

Obviously the stores that are in newer markets, is taking a little longer to build brand awareness. So those would be at the lower range of that $12 million range versus stores and existing markets being in or in larger markets being in a higher end of that volume range at $16 million. I think the key is in terms of the number of stores, looking at more mid-sized markets.

I would say initially, we were focused primarily on going into large metro markets. And I think as we've had some stores in more mid-sized markets be very successful. We've got store in Christiansburg, Virginia that's done very well for us or Heartland in Texas. And so, I think we look at those stores and say okay there's an appetite for sporting goods stores such as ours sports and outdoor stores, such as ours to go into those markets and really take care of an underserved customer.

So you see us, kind of opening the window a little bit in terms of our consideration set, and that's what's really driving more stores. So it'll be more stores maybe a slightly lower volume, but because they're in smaller markets the operating costs to run those stores are very favorable and mo
Okay so with that oh sorry. I didn't know if you had more question.

Okay. No I appreciate it. I appreciate everybody joining us on the call today. Just in closing, our goal over the next year is to move back to top line growth we'll continue to make investments that will drive returns in future years and allow us to achieve our long-term objectives. We believe that we have a unique concept that resonates with a wide-range consumers and is scalable and transportable.

While our long-range plan encompasses targets that we plan to achieve over the next five years, our ultimate long-term goal is to be the best sports and outdoor retailer in the country. The store stretching across the continent and that is what we remain focused on. In closing, I want to thank all 22,000 of our Academy associates, for all the hard work and efforts they put in over the past year.

We continue to believe that our employees are the key ingredient our secret sauce and I know that every one of our team members is going to give it their best effort out there and help more people have fun out there in 2024. Thanks for joining us today and have a great rest of your day.