Steve Johnston
Cincinnati Financial Corporation (CINF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Michael.

Hey, Mike. This is Steve Johnston. I’ll start off and turn it over to Steve Spray here. It’s just with the commercial casualty, it was not umbrella. We addressed that – we think really early a year ago, second quarter, I believe, and we’ve really – we think pain that, brought that under control, and we’re actually producing an underwriting profit now for our umbrella lines. So it’s the commercial casualty part other than umbrella. And when we get to this point, we’re looking at our year-end reserve analysis for all the lines of business, and it gives us the chance to put us in a position to look at the data for the full year. So our focus is on estimating the full year. And for the full year, for commercial casualty, including umbrella, all of that, and we’re showing just under $15 million or 1 loss ratio point in adverse development on the prior accident years, as Mike mentioned.

Now to further put that in perspective, as Mike said, it’s $15 million is just 0.5% of the casualty reserves and 0.2% of the total reserves carried at December 31, 2022. So it’s really as we look at the full year, not a big number. In fact, also for the full year, our total property casualty accident year development was favorable, 2.8 loss ratio points. That’s an improvement from the 2.3 points of the prior year and also that 2.8 is very much in the range of where we’ve been for the last several years. And I always want to point out that makes now 35 years consecutively that we’ve had favorable development for Cincinnati Insurance and our reserves.

There was quarterly volatility through the year. For example, we reported favorable development for prior accident years of $34 million or 9.2 loss ratio points for the second quarter for commercial casualty. As we looked at the fourth quarter, and as Mike mentioned, and you’re mentioning there was more larger losses. I wouldn’t consider it a trend, but there was more larger losses in the fourth quarter just as there were maybe a dearth of that in the second quarter. The advantage is we get to look at the full year here and do as we always do and try to be very prudent. We’re reading what’s going on with the industry. And we thought for the full year, it would not be prudent to release reserves or have favorable development on the prior years.

So I know the fourth quarter, that 14 loss ratio points appears to be a big number, and it is a big number. But I think in context of looking at the full year and what you’ll see in the Schedule P, what you’ll see in the 10-K, I think when you combine it with the other lines where workers’ comp, we did the same type of a procedure, and we had 31-point loss ratio points of favorable development, also had favorable development for commercial auto and most of our lines, favorable development again for the 35th year. To keep a 35-year streak like that, you have to take action when you see it. We saw the larger losses in the fourth quarter. And I think to bring the year in where we thought it would be a prudent position not to release casualty reserves. We arrived at our best estimate in the number that we produced. My turn it over to Steve to talk a little bit about the other question that you had?

Yes. Good question, and it’s the latter, Mike. We don’t see it as a material change in our trend. We feel very good about the position that we are in terms of our rate versus our trend. And keep in mind, we’re forward-looking we’re looking for where do we think the loss costs will be out in the prospective policy period. We feel good about that. A little bit historic as we do see good improvement in those accident year ex-cat combined ratios, which I think gives credence to it. And so it’s more of the latter of doing things in Cincinnati way, recognizing some large losses when we see them and also what’s going on in the industry and being prudent with our reserves to keep that 35 years of favorable development stream going to 36.

Good question. No, there will not be any change in the compensation targets in that regard. We have been very, I think consistent in the combined ratio. We have got 12 years in a row now with a combined ratio under 100. And so we have seen it be as low as 88.3. And so we felt that we could lower that long-term target down and put us in a position to continue to be long-term thinkers there. I think there has also been great consistency in the value creation ratio. If we look at the 5-year average VCR going back to the 5 years ended 2013, all of those 5-year ending years from 2013 through 2023 have all been double digits. So, we are just reflecting our long-term focus and raising the bar a bit on where we put that long-term combined ratio for you.

Yes. I would think there really isn’t anything to call out there, Greg. I think it’s just, we are growing and then paid losses and we have seen that fluctuate from year-to-year. And so there would be some noise there.

Thank you.

Thank you.

No, not really. I think that I don’t see it as a trend. I think we did recognize it. Like I say, there was some volatility through the year. We would have had less of that in the second quarter when we released or recognize the 9.2 points of favorable development. I think we just look – are looking at this now as the whole year and doing our best to put our best estimate forward for the year, which amounted to the $15 million and never want to minimize $15 million. But I think in the grand scheme of things, it’s pretty close to a wash and puts us in a position to continue to have the type of reserve strength and quality of balance sheet that we do.

No, it doesn’t imply a 95% for 2024. And so we are not really giving a 2024 number here. We are again, focusing on the long-term that we have had consistent underwriting profits. We think that the long-term of 95% to 100% is something that we can strive for the long time – long-term to do better and have that be 92% to 98%. We know there will be some years it will be a little bit higher. I think we have been under 100% for 12 consecutive years. I think the highest was 98.1%, the lowest 88.3%. And so there is going to be variation in the market cycles and weather and so forth. We want to focus on the long-term where we continue to grow above the industry average, do it at a good underwriting profit and invest well such that, that value creation ratio stays double digit. There will be some volatility there as investments are a little bit volatility, but over the long pull, which is what we shoot for, we are a long-term strategy team here, we think we can lower that long-term combined ratio range from 95% to 100% to 92% to 98%.

Thank you.

Good morning Grace.

Hi Grace. This is Steve Johnston. I think we can get you those numbers. I do not have like the carried reserves for those years in front of me here what we would carry for those years. I do feel that we are looking at the pandemic years is, obviously, there were challenges we were going through the pandemic with the economy slowing down in ports and so forth. But I do think that now it’s been well behaved.

Great question. I think we would be slow to change those combined ratio targets because interest rates, as we have seen, can fluctuate more quickly than the loss ratios of books and business. And so I think it would be risky to see high interest rates or higher interest rates and react by lowering your standard on a combined ratio when there would be a good chance, I think over the next 10 years that interest rates would go back down. I would expect that over the next 10 years, a lot of what I have seen in terms of interest rate expectation is to go down. If you got yourself in a situation where you reacted to the higher interest rates with a higher combined ratio target, you can’t recalibrate and cash back up as quickly as those interest rates change. So, we are going to stay conservative in terms of our loss ratio targets.

Thank you.

Thank you, Rocco and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter 2024 call.