Steven Bandrowczak 
Xerox Holdings Corporation (XRX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

So, one of the things -- it's Steve. One of the things we did, as you remember, we announced the very, very strategic structural changes and the launch of the Reinvention and the combination of which drives an end-to-end simplification drives cost out and has a very strategic strengthening of our core business and make sure that we have the flexibility to adjust whether revenue goes up or revenue goes down.

So two pieces of it. One Reinvention will drive simplification. We talked about GBS and what we're doing there to drive our overall margins and drive improvements of our business.

Second, we're going to take strategic actions in our geographies and our products. So the whole $300 million of operating profit, independent of what happened with the revenue, so that we can adjust up and adjust down based on whatever decisions we make on non-strategic revenue.

It should. We are very strategically targeting higher revenue that has higher profitability and by default, you're absolutely right. We increased our revenue we should increase our profitability.

Yes, let me take the start of that, and then turn over for Xavier for numbers. We took a look at Q4 and we saw a strong signings in our services business and grow that, and that backlog looked extremely strong. We also see strengthening in our core business in the areas that we played today. So a combination of increase in orders, backlog and our service. And the other piece that Xavier mentioned was in our signings, we're signing now at over 100% on revenue renewal in our core contracts and our services business. So those gives us good foundation for growth and stability as we go forward. Xavier?

Yes, thanks Erik, I appreciate it. So it's roughly about one third of our overall revenue. And so what we're seeing there, is the opportunity to really embed IT and digital services on top of our core services contracts, as we start to see, and we're seeing renewals come up year-over-year, we put a big focus on client centricity. And what that means is how do we help our clients drive productivity, how do we help them solve some of the biggest challenges they have. So if you think about headwinds, whether it's around use of capital, whether it's around labor pressure, whether it's around pressure on profitability. We continue to bring products and solutions that helps them to offset that and that's why we've been successful in our renewal rates up.

Same thing applies in our SMB businesses, right? When we look at our SMB, it's probably even more of an opportunity. We see significant SMB has the same enterprise challenges with profitability due to increase of, whether it's labor costs, whether it's pressure on capital, whether it's pressure on overall increase in costs, they're looking to us to help to offset. So we continually bring solutions. We talked about some of these last quarter on some of the vertical solutions that we're really focusing on. How do we help inside of healthcare? How do we help inside of universities, law firms, et cetera.

And so as we look at those renewal rates, we continue to bring solutions on top of it and we've been very successful. And I've made the statement a couple of times now that we have a great opportunity to expand in existing accounts with products and services that we already have. Better stated, the TAM for us is beyond just the core that everybody sees as our core business. We need to execute and grow inside of our client accounts with products and services that we already have. And we’re seeing evidence of that with new signings.

Yes, Erik. the other thing I'd like to add, because we always get the question, you did the big actions with Own-It, now you're doing reinvention. And so in the beginning of the year, we really looked at all of our end to end cost structures, whether it was it finance, whether it's SG&A, what we did with sales coverage, et cetera. And when you look at that against industry benchmarking, look at that against opportunity to where we can drive this company, that's where we're confident. We still got a lot of work to do to simplify this business. Whether it's around the number of systems we have, number of processes we have, the variations in different ways in which we do business.
So when we look at it, just from a pure benchmark standpoint against other companies and industries, we've got a lot of opportunity ahead of us. Obviously, we got to execute. We'll execute that through the next 24 to 36 months, but there's still a lot of room for us. And that's really where we put GBS in place. GBS is really focused, our global business services is really focused on looking at each and every one of those end to end processes, looking at the cost that we're using and that we're expending in each one of those processes. How do we simplify it? And then think about how do we automate and how do we drive technology.

We see AI, we see chat-GPT, RPA, robotics process automation, and the simplification of our business as a significant opportunity to grow those margins in the future, independent of their revenue line staying flat or a slight decline. So we're very, very optimistic that we can execute and we can drive and we've got a lot of room in our cost basis to make this company a lot more efficient.

Thank you for listening to our earnings conference call this morning. We are firmly on our path of Reinvention. Our focus in this second year of our Reinvention is to strengthen our core businesses, further reduce structural cost through reorganizations and allocate the more than $600 million of free cash flow we expect to generate in 2024 in a way that optimizes total shareholder returns. We have clear line of sight to targeted profit improvements in 2024 and are laser focused on ensuring we exceed our three year goal of at least $300 million of adjusted operating income profit improvement above the 2023, 2024 levels by 2026.
Thank you for listening and have a great day.