Steve Michaels
PROG Holdings, Inc. (PRG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, you got it, Kyle. And you hit on some of it, right? So, without going too far in the past, obviously, '22 was a super stressful time for our consumer with inflation. And then, 2023 was certainly stable and maybe you could even say improving. And you mentioned Goldilocks, right? So, we've talked a lot about the lower 90-day buyouts that happened during tax season. And probably as, if not more importantly, those 90-day buyouts that did not happen, those customers continuing to pay and not like rolling through to a charge-off. So, they might have had some stress that cause them not to be able to do the 90-day or to choose not to do the 90-day, but they were able to continue making their payments, and that resulted in the Goldilocks.

Now, as you flip to the back half of 2023, the 90-day activity normalized. And certainly, that's where we were exiting 2023. And it's difficult for us to assume that Goldilocks or historically low levels of 90 days are going to repeat. We don't really have a ton of visibility into that right now because tax season really hasn't really kicked in yet, but that's what's baked into our view. The consumer is in good shape. Employment, as you said, is strong. There's certainly been some cost inflation that has an outsized impact on our consumer, but jobs are good. So, we're not waiting for the shoe to drop. We're just not assuming that the Goldilocks that happened -- for the most of '23, but certainly more pronounced in the first half of '23, it will repeat. We'll have more visibility into that over the next six or eight weeks as tax season plays out. But we're in good shape from a consumer health standpoint. We're just not expecting a complete repeat of 2023.

Yeah. Thanks, Kyle. Yeah. I mean, we believe that the fourth quarter benefited and the holiday season benefited from certainly a number of factors, one of which was more evidence of a trade-down impact, which, as we've talked about for many quarters, we've been anticipating, and it has been delayed. But we did -- talking to our retail partners, we did hear that finance generally was a bright spot during the holidays. And that wasn't just LTO. That was from the primary all the way to LTO and -- which demonstrates the consumers' need for a payment option on big ticket items. And we've also heard directly from retailers that their primaries have told them that they have tightened and are planning to tighten again in the future.

The way we think about it, though, is it's really more about the traffic, right, the traffic that is generated. Off that traffic, more consumers, we believe, will need a purchase option -- over time, purchase option, and less of them will be approved by their primary providers. So that's one of the drivers of our belief that we can continue to gain balance of share within our retail partners and offset the otherwise challenging demand environment. The magnitude of the trade-down impact, the tailwind, if you will, is difficult to predict because even if you see top-of-funnel dynamics, it's not a direct or linear relationship to funded GMV, but it's certainly a removal of the headwind. And we hope it will be a tailwind into 2024 and beyond.

Thanks, Kyle.

Jason, this is Steve. We're always tweaking and adjusting and testing on the decisioning, but no wholesale changes were done in the quarter. Approval rates in the quarter were slightly higher than the previous year, more so in the online channel than in the in-store channel, but on a weighted average, slightly higher. And obviously, as you know, those different channels have different conversion dynamics. There's more purchase intent if you're in the store versus online. So, an increase or a change to approved rates in store would have a bigger impact on GMV. But nothing that we believe really flows through into a noticeable change in our portfolio performance or certainly write-offs.

Yeah. I mean, January has been -- I know you follow very closely, pretty well documented how fairly soft. And I told the team we weren't allowed to say the word weather on the call, but you broke the seal for us. So, certainly, some weather events out there across the country that had more impact on in-store than online. But coming out of the holiday season, we did see a low in January, as we said in the prepared remarks, down kind of low-single digits. There wasn't a marked difference between the two different channels.

As far as categories go, similar to the holiday season, we continue to see -- consumer electronics was actually performing better. And some of the promotionally-driven furniture stores had some decent days or decent weekends. But overall, it was softer than we were planning for.

Yeah, too early to say. We partnered well with our retailers for their -- the sales that they were -- the campaigns they were putting on. The data will still come in with some delay in funded leases and deliveries and things of that nature. And as you have written, tax season and whether it's delayed or not, it has an impact on purchase activity during Presidents' Day. So it's difficult to really put a pin in February until we start to see how tax season comes through and really not through till the end of March, what's going to happen.

Thanks, Jason.

Yeah, Brad, I don't have those numbers right in front of me. We can get those to you after -- in the after call. I think we'll file the K here shortly as well. But obviously, we have a lot of repeat business. We are always looking to add new customers to the ecosystem. And that's some of the discussion that we had about our multiproduct ecosystem and the other products that we have, helping to introduce new customers to all of our products, including leasing from the existing retailers that we have. The more mature those relationships become, we will have a higher repeat business. So obviously, we're working very hard to try and add new retailers and then we'll get a new influx of customers in that regard. But as far as the year-over-year customer numbers, I don't have those right in front of me.

Yeah, we got you.

Yeah. We actually -- I don't remember if we talked about that on last February's call, but it was -- we expected that to happen a little bit anyways, reduction in average basket size or ticket size in 2023. And we didn't really see it. It was fairly flat in '23. But we are seeing. And whether it be deflation or promotional activity to clear inventory out, there could be some pressure on average ticket, and that is -- there's a small amount of that baked into our forecast for 2024.

Yeah. I mean we, I will call it, topped up the repurchase authorization, the Board did up to $500 million. As you know, we've been pretty aggressive acquirers of our stock over the last several years, and we'll continue to look at that for our preferred method of returning capital to shareholders. However, we did initiate a dividend as well. The Board approved that. And so that -- we look at that as a nice complement to those activities.

As it relates to leverage ratios, it's similar to what we have said. We're kind of comfortable in that 1.5 turns to 2 turns of net leverage range. And that will -- we look at that on an annual basis, not necessarily on a quarter-to-quarter basis because that's going to fluctuate. But the current leverage ratio is comfortable for us, and we will generate cash in pretty much all scenarios that we can accomplish from a growth standpoint. And certainly, our forecast for 2024, has us generating additional cash flow. And as we define excess cash flow, we'll look to return that to -- continue to return that to shareholders with our primary vehicle being repurchases, but now we have a dividend as well.

Thanks, Brad.

Yeah, Anthony, I mean, obviously, pipeline is a big focus of ours, it continues to be the. On the SMB side, depending on which vertical or category you're in, there's various levels of maturation. And as we've talked about a number of times, that's a more, I'll call it, competitive area with more players out there. But we do a great job in the regional SMB space, and we'll continue to look to grow that business through growing existing partnerships as well as converting pipeline. The national side or the enterprise side is always a frustratingly long sales cycle and not really any new updates and certainly not any names for you here this morning, but clearly remains a top priority of ours. And we believe this continued challenging environment is a supportive backdrop for those conversations to lead to conversions.

Yeah, Anthony, I mean, we have a lot of things going on internally with our existing retail partners. I think we highlighted an e-com card integration with a long-time top 5 partner. Those types of things can help us overcome an otherwise soft demand environment. And we have a number of those things on the roadmap and many of those -- one of the things that the current difficult retail environment has done while we hasn't resulted in a large enterprise pipeline conversion, it has resulted in increased prioritization of projects from existing retailers.

And so, our internal objectives, including PROG Marketplace, our direct-to-consumer motion that I mentioned in the prepared remarks as well as our cross-sell marketing motions from our other products, can kind of manufacture GMV in the face of a tough environment. And while we're working day and night on large pipeline conversions, we can place small ball and hit singles and doubles and really inflect that or overcome hopefully, that soft environment. So those are the things we're working on. And we mentioned in the -- that we expect the progress on those things, certainly as the year progresses and look forward to continuing to report out to you guys on that.

Yeah. We don't actually guide the GMV for the year. So obviously, everybody has their models. And you can kind of back into revenue, although disposition types and those revenue composition will have a big factor in that. So, what we did last year and what we intend to do this year is give a little bit of view on what our -- what we think GMV will be for the quarter as we're reporting on it -- the next quarter in front of us as we're reporting on the last one, but we have not given a full guide for GMV for 2024.

Thank you.

Yeah. I'd like to, again, thank you guys for joining us this morning and for your continued interest in PROG Holdings. Our teams did a great job and delivered a strong 2023. We feel good about the positioning of our portfolio and we're making the right investments in people and technology to further our three-pillared strategy of Grow, Enhance, Expand. We look forward to updating you on our progress on 2024's initiatives during our Q1 call in late April. Hope you have a great day.
