Steve LeClair
Core & Main, Inc. (CNM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Dave, this is Steve. So yes, we really didn't put much into this year for that. We do view this as upside if it should start really rolling through. But as you've heard from us in the last several quarterly calls, we're seeing signs of this, but we're not seeing anything material really starting to move through. Seeing some great opportunities that are, really being sketched out right now for treatment plan operations in Arizona, out in Florida, and a couple other areas. But it'll be a bit before those things actually result in orders and deliveries.

So some work to do there. We're continuing to push that, doing everything we can to make sure our municipalities are aware of the available funding and their state revolving funds. And we'll see kind of how that moves throughout the year, but not a whole lot put into the guide for '24.

Yes, Katheryn, this is Steve. So take you through a couple areas that we're expecting some softness in non-residential, certainly like commercial retail. And as you know, we group multifamily into that. Those will continue to be depressed. I think we'll say the same thing about warehousing as well. On the strength side, the highway, street, and bridge projects have been incredibly strong.

Our position that we've got with storm drainage and with geosynthetics really should allow us to have some accelerated growth in those areas. And then, we see pockets in parts around the country where industrial manufacturing facilities are still going strong. Really good opportunities for us, both with land development there and also with fire protection. Data centers continues to be a lot of buzz around that. So we're positioning ourselves pretty well to capitalize on those areas as well.

Okay, thanks, Katheryn. I wouldn't put Eastern Supply really into our private label piece as much. When we talk about private label, we're talking about a lot of categories that go into a lot of non-specified type products that go in. Fire protection, we've really done a nice job there pulling product through there, whether they're lowly specified items like some minor valves. And certainly you get into things like hangers and struts and things along those lines that play really well for us to be able to distribute across our network.

In waterworks, we're still continuing to find opportunities there, whether it gets into packaging of glands and valve packages that will get into a lot of the nuts and bolts and accessory packs that go into that. So, there are just numerous areas for us to do that. As Mark shared with you, we've added a thousand SKUs in this last year. And I would say that if you look at kind of what our inventory plan was as we went into 2023 and bleeding off a lot of inventory, obviously that impacted private label as well, too.

So, we just weren't bringing in as much material on private label. And we feel now that we're much more stabilized in the inventory levels. Our ability to pull through is going to be much stronger as we get into 2024.

Yes, sure, Anthony. We're fairly far along with that, and we've had some really good results. You'll see that really put into our organic growth above market is where we've really bucketized that. The group that we have has been working with plan engineers and designers in this design build format. It's what I would call fairly new in terms of the application within water and wastewater treatment plants. And we're really on the cutting edge of this.
And the use of the design build methodology is really starting to take shape in water and wastewater treatment plants design, and we're really well positioned for that. We have a number of folks that are certified in that, actually sit in some of the boards that apply specifically into our industry and trade organizations. So we'll continue to see benefit from that.

You're going to continue to see major projects. And one of the things we're going to start doing as we get into our subsequent year in our earnings calls is to start highlight some of the opportunities that we've been able to achieve there and how that plays out and get a little bit more visibility into that as we go forward this year.

Yes. I'm anticipating we'll see a minor acceleration this year as we get into it. We started seeing more of the funds starting to flow. We're seeing projects now starting to be scoped out. As that starts landing and ultimately results in material being shipped and delivered, we're still encouraged by what we're anticipating could be incremental growth in the municipal piece over the next several years. I would say we have a little different take on the long-term aspects of this.
I don't believe this is going to be a one and done type thing where you're going to see these funds utilized. As they're utilized, what we're really encouraged about is the long-term prospects of this. Municipalities will borrow from the state revolving funds. They will pay back into that state revolving fund. That money will be a regenerative source for many years to come, even beyond the initial issuance of the IIJA funds. That's what has us really encouraged. That's what has our municipal customers encouraged as well, too, is ability, medium and long-term, for what those funds can do.

es, Joe. As we ended 2023 in that fourth quarter, and really as we started the back half of third quarter, we started seeing some positive signs of life in residential, particularly in lot development. That grant, we're coming off from two years of down market in residential, so it was encouraging. But as we looked at the start of this year, the sentiment is really strong. I think people are getting acclimated into the higher interest rates at this point, and then just the inevitable demand that's been out there for housing continues to be robust. So we're encouraged by what we're seeing there. We think that we're going to be anniversarying a lot of downside in residential for the last two years, and so we're encouraged by what we're seeing. Lots of developments continuing to expand, and it seems to be more pervasive across the country than what we experienced before.

Yes, Patrick. This is Steve. You would expect on a deal that size, that certainly very incredibly well-respected regional player in our space, that we're on the high end of the multiple as we went in. We do see great synergies associated with this. A lot of the product categories which we carry, which Dana Kepner did not, will have upside opportunity for us as well. We really like the business for a number of reasons. It performs extremely well, great customer relationships, and the geographies are a really strong fit for us.

Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, all areas where we complement each other with our locations there, with the customer profile, whether it's adding additional contractor customers or municipal customers, it's really a glove fit for us in all those areas. It helps to strengthen our position in the northeast as well too, where we believe we're under-penetrated. So for all those aspects, this was a really good fit for us. We're really excited about the talent as well too. They have a really strong team. We compete against them previously. We know them well. They have great sales talent, they have great management talent, and we're going to benefit from all that.

No. We really look at it as complementary at this point. A lot of those markets, there is a lot of fragmentation in those markets. There are a lot of competitors in that space, so we really view it as complementary to what we're doing.

Yes. We really look at the share gains, particularly with the contractors that are doing a lot of this work that are traveling across the country to work on treatment plant projects, particularly those in design build, whether it's a Garney construction or Archer Western. All of them are looking for consistency in delivery and execution with a national focus, but then ultimately when it comes time to fulfillment at the local levels, being able to do that.

With our branch structure now, well over 300 branches, our ability to serve and fulfill through all of those different locations has given us a real powerful competitive advantage in being able to continue to grow with those contractors as we do that. So we're encouraged by what we're seeing there. There's a lot of treatment plant and wastewater treatment plant being sketched out over the next several years.

The pipeline for these things can be three to five years in terms of timing for a lot of these projects. A lot of the work that we've done over the last several years has certainly allowed us to continue to grow and the pipeline looks really strong for those projects going forward.

Thank you all again for joining us today. It was a pleasure to have you on the call. Fiscal 2023 was an outstanding year for Core & Main. We are well positioned to build on our momentum and we have a strong outlook for fiscal 2024. We are confident that our strategy will drive ongoing value creation as we continue to execute our growth strategies and deliver on our capital allocation priorities. We have more levers than ever for driving growth and profitability, the cash flow generation to capitalize on it, and the team to execute it.

Thank you for your interest in Core & Main. Operator, that concludes our call.