Steven Kobos
Excelerate Energy, Inc. (EE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Ben, thanks for joining us. Appreciate that. You touched on a couple of good points. First thing, quite the share repo now. I think I touched on it in the remarks, it's really driven by the share price, it's a great investment. We think it's a great opportunity. And no, we think we're sitting in such a good position in terms of do we have sufficient dry powder to after the targets in front of us? We absolutely do.

If we thought we were endangering that in any way, we would not have done this, but we think we can do both and we think this is the most prudent way to return capital to shareholders right now because of the share price. Moving forward, obviously, we continue to look and evaluate our dividend. But first and foremost in our mind is the ability to pursue growth. And does that answer your question?

I mean, obviously, we're quite bullish long stream, long term into downstream opportunities. In terms of power, we are interested in our assets, I mean it's early days for us there. I think I pointed out some of the areas that we're focused on in the near term. The near-term targets, it's a mix of LNG import terminals either existing or under developments and downstream natural gas infrastructure and also vessels, of course.

So, I think probably within your question is also where we think folks are going in terms of purchasing LNG. And you can tell, we think on that, that there is continued and increasing demand for long-term folks moving for the affordability and predictability of long-term LNG, which matches nicely with their need for the downstream infrastructure. So we think the purchasing pattern in the global South and in elsewhere shows the continued viability of this downstream asset class.

I think just based upon those relative populations, you're absolutely right, Bobby. I'll probably hand this over to my colleague, Oliver Simpson. I will say, first and foremost, though, the thing that's a great proof point about Bangladesh is, that's just an infrastructure contract we have. And even though we only have an infrastructure in Bangladesh, it didn't stop us from being engaged with the customer, figuring out what their need was, their need was to rapidly increase the amount of long-term priced - favorably priced LNG that they needed.

We made an upgrade, enhanced the send-out capacity of our existing infrastructure. And as a consequence, we were able to secure that. So I think I would say just looking at all the markets, I'll start first with our existing markets. We're always going to be engaged and seeing what the customer needs. In past, we've talked about how some markets are far more variable in their needs. Some are seasonal, but we're always going to be a team to what they need.

But Oliver, you want to speak to how we see the markets. I just focused on a particular market outside of rest of the world.

Thank you, Bobby, for inviting us to open up a postmortem seminar here. We've got - everything is dependent upon the market we're looking at if we - what we think about the fundamental demand. We often talk about the fact that we're going to invest in projects, we like to invest in markets. We care about the fundamental demand and need for energy in a particular market, whether it's the demand for energy security or the demand for energy. We want to know that there is a solid business case driving the demand. And then we'll look at what we expect.

We've said before, we're looking for mid-teens unlevered after-tax returns on a lot of those sorts of projects. So we're looking at our hurdle rates in different markets. These are big opportunities. Obviously, you're talking about CapEx. It can vary - I would say they average $200 million to $400 million in terms of opportunity size.

But if you're going to pass anything and I'm not going to speak to that, but I think we have a track record of doing great due diligence out there in the world, evaluating the need for energy in a particular market that drives a successful project over many years. And then making sure that it's going to meet our hurdle rates that we're comfortable with our governance. So it's a host of things. But I do think we've got a good track record and I assure you, we have rigor in this process.

Sure. I mean, the bulk of the committed CapEx, as Dana mentioned, is for tranche on the new building with Hyundai Heavy Industries. As we mentioned on the call, we're going to continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the fleet as part of the strategy. We feel very strongly that, there is a market tightness in this asset class, we continue to see that. We think it's one of the limiting factors in projects and the ability to move forward with us. We will continue to be evaluating acquisition or new building of the fleet.

In terms of the question going as to organic or inorganic development of some of the opportunities we discussed, it's just a both and obviously, we want to look to the inorganic opportunities. We like as we're interested in accelerating earnings in 2025 and 2026, no doubt about it. So that is one of the key drivers on that, plus not every market is the same. Some are better suited for organic development, some are better suited for buying something that's further along.

So it's horses for courses. We're going to keep evaluating those, but we have very definite return expectations and hurdle rates that we have to meet. And whether we get there through an organic or inorganic basis, we have our expectations, which we fully tend to meet and anything we're going to execute on is going to be accretive for the company and for our shareholders.

Dana and I can both speak to that. I mean, in terms - well, first of all, hi, good morning, Zack.

Yes, good morning. In terms of what could push it down, I mean, I think that would probably be more likely than anything, an increase in development expense spend as we get further traction than we might expect on some opportunities. That would be one driver. But what would you add to?

No. I think, Zack, we are - first, I'd say we're pleased with the suppliers that we have agreements with currently Spencer Global, that's QatarEnergy, very happy with both those deals. There's definitely interest from some parties for Henry Hub indexed long-term deals. We like the U.S.

At the same time, you just saw just in the past few days, QatarEnergy announced an additional 16 million tons coming up that's going to take their total up to 144. This just means, there is a continuing demand for increasing demand for LNG around the world. Other producers will step up if the U.S. doesn't. We're somewhat agnostic.

We hope there will be further U.S. production. We think it's in the best interest of the U.S. and a harmonious global system that people can afford this product and access it widely. You've seen some nations increase significantly their targets for natural gas in recent weeks as part of their mix. That's usually to the disadvantage of coal. So we're in favor of and think it's great for the U.S. or any other market to increase its LNG production.

Thank you.

Thanks. Thanks for that, Ben. I'm going to throw that one back over to Oliver Simpson, who will answer without going into too much detail.

And that's in line with what we've said philosophically about commodities for some time and the fact we're looking for infrastructure uplift.

Thanks, Ben.

I'm going to grab the mic from Craig Hicks. This is Stephen Kobos. Thank you again to everyone who joined on today's call. As you heard this morning, we delivered strong full year results in '23 and we are optimistic about our plans to maximize shareholder value. We take pride in being one of the world's premier providers of flexible LNG infrastructure and the preferred partner for countries seeking to stabilize their energy systems.

Before closing this earnings call, I would like to reinforce our commitment to our investors to be extremely transparent regarding our action-oriented growth strategy based on our highly ratable take-or-pay, FSRU-based business and the growth catalysts we've talked about and our capital allocation strategy. I look forward to providing you with additional progress updates in the coming months.

Thank you all for your time this morning.