Steven Nielsen
Dycom Industries, Inc. (DY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Steve. So there's obviously, there's been lots of commentary in the industry about how calendar ‘22 finished and how people are thinking about calendar ‘23. What did some research just this week that that had about 6.6 million homes completed in ‘22. An expectation of that seven and a half million homes this year. So a nice increase. And I think that's something that we certainly see as an opportunity in the business for us to grow. I think we also are encouraged about in customer commentary on their earnings calls, or analyst days where they either initiated or reiterated commitments to programs, pretty significant size and duration. So it's a year. Obviously, no guarantees, but we feel pretty good in this year, based on everything that we see.

Yes, I think, Steve with respect to kind of our customers cost to pass. I mean, there's lots of inputs into that calculation, we're certainly one of them. I think it at least in our experience, and this is not for any specific customer, but generally, their costs reflect the mix of types of work that they're performing. Aerial work is obviously less expensive than buried work, work for to serve multiple dwelling units is comparable to aerial. And so from our perspective, we're comfortable with where we are with customers. We're having good conversations, and I don't think we would characterize them any more than that. But we have seen fluctuation in the overall number of costs for homes passed over time. I think with respect to the margins, and we certainly will have less margin headwind. As we've talked about before out of this closing out of this large customer program. We've had good conversations about the cost of the business right now in a period of time where labor is tight and no guarantees, but again, we feel optimistic about this year.

Again, Adam, I just reiterate what we were talking about with Steve is that there have been a number of customers that have publicly talked about expanding their programs, either in markets that they currently serve, or are in expansion markets, and we're pleased to participate where we can provide good, valuable service.

Well, I don't know that we ever speculate, Adam, who's going to be in or out, we hope everybody goes up, and that we get our fair share of the business. The states that we announced this quarter are really an extension of our current maintenance agreements. You might recall a couple of quarters ago; we talked about some fiber awards with them in four states. Those projects are underway. They are very focused on deploying fiber and a very experienced management team. We've worked with them when they were with other folks in the industry. And we're working hard to meet their expectations every day.

Sure. So we were pleased that in the fourth quarter, Alex, that we received a little bit more equipment than what we had expected when last we talked. I think we had said on last call, if it all shows up, we'd be happy to put it to work. And so we got, we certainly did receive a little more than we expected. We have a positive bias on investing in the business organic growth supported by CapEx is always a good use of the cash flow that we generate in the business. I think I just checked yesterday; we have in excess of $86 million of capital equipment on order right now. So we continue to order equipment, delays are or deliveries are long cycle. So we're trying to anticipate where we need to order our equipment and continue to try to meet the needs of the customers by investing in the business.

Sure, there certainly been some pretty good increase in expectation around the technical upgrades to their equipment to facilitate capacity expansion. That's less construction intensive, but something that we're pleased to participate in. And then I think they're, that generally the cable industry has been reasonably aggressive or maybe really aggressive around fiber deployments in rural America. There's lots of state level funding that's available prior to the B funding and we're encouraged with the opportunities that we're seeing for cable operators as they edge out their networks into rural America.

I mean, certainly, I mean, labor still tight, it's a little bit easier to secure than it was last summer. But I think what I point to more than that, Brent, was we have pretty solid November-December period. And then January's weather not everywhere. But generally, what was unseasonably good. So it allowed us to really address a substantial amount of work. So good, solid performance in the first couple of months, and they're just really much better weather, on average, not in California than kind of the Rocky Mountains, but in the bulk of the country, just a little better environment in which to operate.

Put a point on it, $677.8 million of organic growth.

Well, I think Noelle, first, as we talked about with respect to the weather it year-over-year, the weather was a bigger factor as we got deeper into the quarter. As we've always said, our fourth quarter is hard to forecast because January has two holidays in our calendar, the week between Christmas and New Year's as well as the potential risks if you get a bunch of bad weather broadly across the country in the back half of January. So I would tell you that the revenue got on a year-over-year and against expectation was really outperformed the deeper we got into the quarter. I think we were encouraged, as the quarter went by with some Analysts Day presentations from some customers, as well as their comments on their calls. And specifically for example, with Lumen as they reassessed the program and then disclose that they expect to spend $200 million or $250 million incremental this year over last on the quantum fiber program. So I just think we had a number of data points that came in either late in the quarter or more subsequent to the end of the quarter.

Well, I think it's important to remember that we provide other services for Lumen. So we're actively employed in supporting their network across a large part of the country. I think the other thing that as we looked at their comments, I think it was pretty clear that they had reassessed how they had been planning their fiber build. And then as that completed, they have targets for this year that we're pleased to help accomplish. And so I think more, I guess, the way I would put it is, they may have stopped in the approach that they were taking, but to the extent we were working on projects that fit the new approach, then we really wanted to continue.

Yes, I think again, Noelle, we do lots of things for AT&T as we talked about last quarter, we started a pretty sizable locating contract for them at the first of the year. So we've added a couple 100 employees for them. In terms of the fiber passings, I mean, we may see some moderation in our business, we don't work for them everywhere. They're big customer. But we're still encouraged with the commitment that more generally that customers have made to the targets that we've set forth and generally frame those, as those are the targets they'd like to hit, or more, if that makes sense in their business.

Yes, we widely support Lumen in their efforts, not only on this program, but in other areas. And as always, as we always say, Christian, we've got to earn that business every day. But we feel like we're in a good position to provide a valuable service to the customer, again one day at a time.
I think. Christian, as always, it's a big industry depends on the size of the entity you're talking to, and with particular pockets as may under addressing, I think we still, we certainly see good growth opportunities, we've got to execute against them. I think as we work our way through the year, that will be increased opportunities that are resulting out of government funding, not just the B program, which may be late in the year. But certainly some of the ARPA funds are still coming into the economy, RDOF funds, and it's not to be under appreciated the amount of state level activity that is where funds are coming out, based on state programs. So I think there's lots of opportunities. We're not giving guidance for the year, we had a really strong quarter, again, a strong quarter and a strong year. So the comps may be a little tougher this year compared to last, but we're still optimistic on our prospects.

That may be a global warming opportunity for you, Chris, and I'm not sure we can change Minnesota weather.

Alex, we'll focus our comments on EBITDA margin, there's certainly been periods of time where we've had broadly distributed growth, where EBITDA margins have approached fifteens, we're not there now. We have opportunities to improve the business, we're working hard to do that. I think we've had good control around our G&A. We've had some inflationary impact, certainly over the last year or so in the cost of goods. And so we're -- we've got lots of work to do, we're continuing to do that. And I think there's nothing structural that says we can't get back there. But it's going to be the result of a sustained effort to do that.

Alex, we always think about any activity that we provide customers as a function of the amount of capital that we invest, if we have the similar levels of capital in a maintenance and operations business compared to construction or capital related business. They'll have about the same return to me, there are some activities we do, where projects are small, and so DSOs are a lot of work. And we perform well on those businesses too. So I think it's really a function of the capital that's required that ultimately drives margins, of course, we have to perform in order to earn those margins.

The weather really isn't an effect on customer plans. I mean, what we got done in January had to be planned and permitted and ready to go long before January. So I really think that was just the opportunity to get out and execute the work. With respect to the April quarter, this is another one that is back end loaded. April's weather obviously is better than February and March. I would say February's weather generally was is a little more challenging than January. And certainly there's been some more weather impacts in California. But this is a quarter that always resolves itself or performs based on how we do in April just because more daylight, better weather. Just more to get done.

Yes, Alan, I'm not going to get into characterize any individual customer's behavior. But it's not unusual when you have an ownership change. And there are a lot of things that they're working on, for them just to extend the agreements that we have with them, as they work on other things that are a priority. And I wouldn't read a lot into that one way or another, just anytime there's a transaction, there's a lot of things for the customer to work on.

Yes, I mean, with respect to the revenue guidance, again, on the April quarter, Alan, as we mentioned earlier, anytime you have a growth year, like we did last year, the comps get a little bit harder. As we talked about before, there can be fluctuation amongst customers, as programs come in, and then other programs moderate. And so we're trying to give you a kind of a reasonable view of where we see the business. And then with respect to backlog, as we've always talked about before, the way we calculate backlog, total backlog is loosely correlated with the next 12 months of revenue. I'd probably point you more to the growth that we've seen in the next 12 months backlog which I think is consistent with a view that we have some good opportunities this year.

Well, with respect to last quarter, there was better year-over-year and against expectation revenue performance in December and January. We certainly had unseasonable weather in January, which means that the normal patterns of sequential revenue growth from the January quarter into April, we're going to be different when you have a stronger January than what you would expect, right? I mean, typically what you don't get done in January has to get done or most likely has to get done in the April quarter. The other thing is, if you, we provide lots of detail on our trends schedule, there is fluctuation amongst customers. And as that works that way into the business, there can be some timing issues around programs that are moderating and programs that are coming in. And in industry environment where we had a great organic growth here last year, we just don't want to get ahead of ourselves this year.

That concludes today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the call back to Steven Nielsen

for closing remarks.

Well, we appreciate everybody's time and attention and participation in the call. And we look forward to speaking to you at the end of May after the April quarter. Thank you.