Strauss Zelnick
Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (TTWO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, you're right. It's very uncharacteristic of us to talk about subsequent years at this time. We're doing so because we've been investing in a pipeline for a long time. And we now have a great deal of confidence that, that pipeline will be delivered in the next 3 years, 12 titles in fiscal '24, 36 in the following 2 years, up 44% of that is new intellectual property. The rest is new iterations of existing franchises, and that's mobile, console, PC and numerous business models. We couldn't be more excited, fiscal '24 titles look good and as I said, we're very confident in the years to come as well. And we thought it was important to convey that with transparency today.

Yes, as you know, I'm usually a skeptic when others engage in hyperbole. In the case of AI, I'm pretty enthusiastic. First of all, despite the fact that artificial intelligence is an oxymoron as is machine learning. This company has been involved in those activities no matter what words used to describe them for its entire history, and we're a leader in the space.

So while the most recent developments in AI are surprising and exciting to many they are exciting to us, but not at all surprising. Our view is that AI will allow us to do a better job and to do a more efficient job. When you're talking about tools and they are simply better and more effective tools. I wish I could say that the advances in AI will make it easier to create hits.

Obviously, it won't. Hits are created by Genius, and data sets plus compute, plus large language models does not equal Genius. Genius is in the domain of human beings, and I believe we'll stay that way. However, I think jobs can be made a whole lot easier and more efficient by developments in AI, and we're certainly looking forward to that. And as I said, we're already putting it in practice every day.

Yes. On Star Wars, Hunters, you asked about the market backdrop. We are seeing some improvement in year-over-year comps. Mobile really was under a lot of pressure. The market is recovering a bit. It's still down year-over-year. In certain instances, we appear to be overperforming. And we're excited about many developments at Zynga. For example, advertising penetration, advertising that represents 27% of Zynga's net bookings, which is great. That will continue to improve. We're excited also about our direct-to-consumer platform, which obviously has an effect on our margins, a beneficial effect on our margins.

So I think the backdrop is stable and perhaps improving a little bit. At the end of the day, what will matter, of course, is the quality of the title. Mobile is a very competitive space. We feel really good about Star Wars Hunters.

Yes. Thanks for your question. In terms of how do you define innovation, if it had one definition, I think it would stop being innovation pretty quickly. But I think our labels are known for leading in new areas, whether that's a 3D view when there wasn't one before, whether that was downloadable add-on content many years ago or in-game purchases, virtual currency or the like that was the neighborhood or the city and NBA 2K, GTA Online, Red Dead Online, what you could do in those online environments, all of those were innovations driven by our labels. And everyone who works in the creative capacity at this company is trying to think about how do we engage and entertain consumers in a way that's novel that hasn't been seen before.

We actually just had an internal e-mail exchange earlier today talking about the unknowns that we know in the next 10 years, there will be extraordinary changes in this industry. This is a highly dynamic industry. And we need to be not only current, we need to be leading the charge. Sometimes historically, we have. Other times, we've missed the boat, and we want to be at the front of the line and our creative folks work in service of their passions to make the best entertainment, anyone creates on earth. And again, we don't always succeed, but often we do.

Our track record is pretty great creatively. And that's thanks to our 9,000 developers who work here and another 1,500 who work outside of our 4 walls to do work that Take-Two brings to market.

So I'm sort of highly optimistic on the one hand and very mindful that this is a really ambitious challenge and the ambition is it's been emotional burden for everyone who works here, but also a great benefit when we succeed.

On your second point, I think you asked us to distinguish between RCS and console sale and full game sales.

Yes, we don't break out the headcount label by label, but we did say that we have about 9,000 internal development people at the company.

It really varies. I mean, obviously, our labels will continue to support platforms for which they believe there's a meaningful audience. And if and when the audience diminishes to a point where it's not economical to do so, we stop supporting the platforms. But in general, we're pretty supportive on an ongoing basis.

Yes. We've talked about this in the past. I mean, to take your second question first. We do think that live services spending is probably more affected by macroeconomic conditions because you don't need to spend. If you have the game, you can enjoy the game. There are certain titles that we don't really put ours into this category where you kind of have toll boots. If you don't pay, you really can't play, but that doesn't describe any of our titles mobile or console. So we think spending in a live services environment is a nice to have for the consumer, not a must-have. And as a result, if the consumer is feeling a pinch that might be an area that would be more likely to be influenced negatively.

In terms of the pricing point that you raised, we're not seeing a pushback on frontline price. What we're seeing is consumers are seeking to limit their spending by going either to the stuff they really, really care about blockbusters or to value. And sometimes it could be both. And the good news is like we have a bunch of blockbusters, and we have a wonderful catalog.

The other news is we also have a robust frontline release schedule and without regard to price, there has been some pressure as a result. If a consumer sees something is interesting but not necessarily yet a huge blockbuster. We think that will change. This is a growth business, and this is a unique market.

And nothing that's going on now is inconsistent with the view that we outlined during the pandemic. We said at that time, we were benefiting greatly from people being at home and an odd turn of events. And we set our expectations post-pandemic, as an industry be in a better place than pre-pandemic in a worse place than during time when people were sheltering at home.

And that's exactly what's happened exacerbated by a challenging mixed economy and what I believe is a recession, at least if you look at it through the lens of people who purvey digital entertainment consumed at home and e-commerce suppliers. There's a lot of pressure in those markets. But the overall tailwinds of the industry will continue. This is a growth business. It will remain fastest-growing part of the entertainment business for the next 20-plus years. And we will have those tailwinds. Now we still have to deliver in that context, and we intend to. But to torture the metaphor, the winds at our back.

Thanks, Mike. Well, we basically have indicated profitability by talking about our operating cash flow. You're right. We haven't gotten granular because we're not providing initial specific guidance, but we do expect that fiscal '25, '26 and beyond will be highly profitable years. And we've said repeatedly in these remarks today, we expect to grow our margins. That's a big part of what our financial objectives include.

With regard to AI and mobile, I think the implication of your question is does generative AI allow people who aren't in the business to make mobile hits by saying to ChatGPT, “Come up with a great idea for a new mobile hit. Oh, and by the way, please code it for me, too.” And while you can do that now, you should give it a try and you'll see what happens because we certainly have tried it around here.

And let's just say that, no, you will not be able to create hits that way. I mean remember, what you're looking at with AI and what you will always be looking at is a data set compute and at least sitting here today, large language models. And in the future, you may not be looking at large language models or they will change, but you'll still be looking at a data set and compute. And a data set by definition, is backward-looking and hits in the entertainment business by definition are forward-looking. And no matter how intelligent and I use the word in quotes very much in quotes, maybe multiple quotes. “A machine is not going to be able to look forward. A machine can predict based on data sets and using massive compute and using large language models.” We're all super excited about what we see because we haven't seen before the possibility of doing a natural language query and getting a natural language result. That looks incredibly cool.

But to confuse that result with intelligence and creativity is like confusing a magic trick with magic. It's not magic. It's still a magic trick. So that's where I'm at on this. No AI is not going to allow people to push a button to make a hit. However, AI is going to make certain elements of any process that requires coding easier for everyone, for everyone, not disproportionately for anyone, for everyone.

What was the second part of your question?

I think that's right. But at the end of the day, it just means quality. Just means you have to put out great stuff and that speaks to private division as well and that's always the case. This is less about changing strategy because our strategy is that everything that we put out should be just spectacular and more just a reflection of where the consumer sits. And the consumer will return, and this is going to be a growth business. As long as we make the highest quality titles, we should do just fine.

Private Division's approach has never been based on sort of taking a shortcut on quality. Its approach has been let's bring into the 10 developers who might not otherwise bring their products to Take-Two. And in certain instances, we can deliver an A+ title on a more economical level than we might be able to do in-house. And that's been proven out and Private Division has generated a lot of successful titles. And in fact, virtually everything they've done, not everything, but virtually everything has been successful.

Our strategy has always been to have the broadest possible distribution. We were a leader in digital distribution in the very beginning. And one of the reasons we did so well is that we basically were willing to do business with everyone whose terms made sense to us and who were good market participants in terms of security and compliance.

And to the extent that streaming is a viable business opportunity and technology for our industry. Of course, we'll avail ourselves of it. And I'm certain we'll work with third parties as we have in the past. We were I think the first license for Stadia, for example, sorry, didn't work out, but we were there to support the effort. And equally to the extent that it makes sense to have our own platform, we will do that, too. But we're not very unlikely to be exclusively limited in one direction or the other. We want to be where the consumer is.

So I think that's all the questions we have today. Thank you so much for joining us. We're thrilled with these results. We're more than thrilled with our outlook. I want to reiterate our gratitude to our teams around the world who show up every day with more or less with smiles on their faces, mostly with smiles. Aiming to do their very best work in pursuing their passions. I want to thank our business teams who bring their great work to market and make sure that we run our business in a first-class fashion. And of course, I want to thank our shareholders for their support and confidence in us. Have a great day.