Stuart Bradie
KBR, Inc. (KBR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, thanks, Tobey. I mean, our original targets that we set forth towards 2025 are unchanged there. I mean, the growth in GS is between 5% and 8% and the growth in STS is in the low double digits, and we expect that to continue.

Yes, I think, Tobey, we're ahead of pace in terms of achieving, we said we'd be in the high teens, low 20s over time, and we've got there faster. I mean, our expectation is margins will kind of hold where they are today through the course of the year, and that's embodied in the guide.

I mean, certainly, the protest period and the legal pieces with the time of the contract, but to date the contract term is nine and a half years or so. There will be obviously re-competes and things like that at the end of it, but that holds as it stands today. There's no extension to that just because of the - we did start the development work. It has taken longer. That's just part of the deal, I think.

Yes, I mean there's obviously a bit of HomeSafe in that build up as we go through the year. We expect more in the second half than the first half, obviously, as first moves are only in the spring. We do have -- you've seen the volatility in our R&S business due to, I guess, a little bit of a slowdown in UCOM that is flatlining at the moment and we've kind of assumed that as we progress with a bit of upside coming at the back end of the year.

But I think the other thing to take into consideration in that statement is we have 75% of our work under contract today. So I think that puts us in a very sound position. We've always said there's multiple pathways for KBR to deliver EBITDA. So as Mark explained in his remarks, we're growing substantially in Defense and Intel and International.

The trajectory of those businesses going into ‘24 is actually very, very healthy because of the work we secured near the tail end of the year also. So I think there's different levers to pull there. So I don't think we're counting on resolution of budgets are and those are difficult to predict and it would be falling for us to sort of assume anything around there. We've actually based it on our business as it stands today and we've got some conservatism in certain places and I feel that we're well positioned to deliver what we've actually guided.

Yes, good question, Mike. I think I would like to just start off because I've seen some of the earlier reports coming out on book-to-bill and STS. And I think some of the folks are a little bit off the mark. And that's kind of perhaps somewhat our fault as well, because in our disclosures, we don't give a breakdown of the equity and earnings backlog. So in STS, if you exclude the equity and earnings backlog piece where the LNG projects are running at peak at the moment, the book-to-bill was 1.1 in Q4 and over the year the backlog grew 15% in that core business. So I just wanted to give some context there and most of that is coming across the energy trilemma, but all of it really is, there's a lot of installed bases that are trying to decarbonize.

You've got energy security concerns and a lot happening, particularly in the Middle East as they look to, I guess, change up their mix of products and actually decarbonize their own industries. And the level of ammonia work that we've won through the year is very, very impressive and obviously, we've now got ammonia cracking as well that actually takes the ammonia in terms of back into hydrogen.

So we're seeing no slowdown in that market. I think when you look at the overall spend, the capital spends and we'll talk about this in the primer. I mean the energy security piece is dwarfing energy transition, but every year the percentage of energy transition spend increases.

So as we are very well positioned in the energy security market and the things that we do in a - in sort of taking forward energy security with a decarbonized thematic, which is terrific for us and a very large installed base to leverage off. And then secondly is energy transition whether that's ammonia, hydrogen or any derivative thereof like methanol. We're very well positioned as we, as that market continues to grow and you've seen our success in those areas and we're very much at the forefront of multiple green ammonia projects that we've announced recently et cetera.

So I think it's going to be an increasing part of our portfolio, but it will happen over time. But I think that that's absolutely fine for us because we can play in energy security as well as energy transition and as those two come together, we're very well positioned.

Yes. I mean, I think the important takeaway is that the combined EBITDA keeps us on our path to $925 million, which we committed to last quarter and we're feeling pretty good about that, particularly with where HomeSafe is heading as well. Obviously, if CR resolves sooner and there's more funding flowing to Ukraine, there could be upside towards our assumptions on the spend in UCOM, et cetera. But also, we've got a very, very strong pipeline in STS and I think ultimately if we win our fair share there, that could also outperform a bit. So, but I'd like to stick to the guide. I mean, double digit growth. I mean, our revenue is up 9% to 10%, our EBITDA is up 11%, which shows slight margin expansion across the portfolio. It keeps us very healthily on track to what people thought were very lofty targets back in the day and we're well on path to achieving those. And as you say, we've got capital deployment optionality.

So I think we keep talking about the levers we can pull and the fact that we didn't get derailed last year with the slowdown in UCOM. We still exceeded expectations, particularly in EBITDA. And so again, with D&I outperforming and International outperforming and STS outperforming in truth. And so I think you'll see ebbs and flows across the segments through the course of the year. And that's why I said yes to both. I think there are opportunities across both segments to do well. And if the stars align, obviously, that would be terrific. But our guide is our guide. And that's what we're sticking to in this market. With volatility and uncertainty, I think doing double digit growth with a very high proportionate work under contract is a very good place to be.

Oh, the latter. We're in a position today where we've tried to give you far more clarity on HomeSafe for ‘24 and rightfully so, given the progress we've made. There will be significant ramp in ‘25 and again in ‘26. But I think we need a little bit more time to give you color on that and of course we're looking for an Investor Day later on this year and obviously that will give us a little bit more time. So I don't really want to give you numbers today on ‘25 or ‘26 because I got a significant punch in the nose last quarter for not being able to lift up to expectations. So that you lesson learned there. But we're feeling really good about HomeSafe and we've talked about it often and I think you, I mean, all the sell side and a lot of investors know they expected ramp over time but we're not going to give you numbers today if that's sorry to be so vague. But I think that's probably the prudent thing to do and I'd rather be conservative in that sense.

Yes, to both of those questions, the Middle East continues to be buoyant. The capital spends profiles enormous. It dwarfs every other part of the world. I think Saudi's slated to be the fastest growing economy this year and again next year likely. And clearly, they've got their vision 2030 and they're executing on it. And we've got a significant pipeline and growth not only in Saudi, but in Abu Dhabi and in Kuwait and other countries in the Middle East. And there's no doubt the Southern Hemisphere in general is driving a lot of global that any sort of level of global growth is going to come from there in our business. But in terms of the IRA bill, we did a deep dive on that recently. We understand the drivers and all the seven hubs we recognize that at the moment it's, there's very low drawdown on the $7 billion from the government. I think people are still forming rather than storming if you like. And but we recognize where which hubs we can really add value to and we're in discussions there. So as they start to progress, there's very much an upside, I think, for KBR.

Yes, the Defense business, Defense and Intel's obviously in two separate sub-segments, if you like. The Defense piece is mostly driven around the CEDA business, as others would know it. We've got a very strong IDIQ portfolio and we've got very excellent contract vehicles, one we've talked about the most is IAC MAC and that allows us for very short-term procurements and because the size of the contracts are not amazingly large, we don't often announce it until we get to aggregate numbers but the bookings there were significant last year and the growth in that particular business was in the high single digits and standalone and it seems to be the cadence of that business and I think the other attribute of it, it's becoming more digitally differentiated. And so the scope that we're seeing on recompete, now recompete win rate is very, very high in that business, just by the technical nature and the main expertise that we deploy. And we've seen scope and margin creep as a consequence of that digital differentiation. So that's the defense side and through defense modernization, which is of course a big strategic thrust of the DoD, but also overseas as well. That is in good shape to continue with that growth profile.

On the Intelligence side, we do a lot of work for the three letter acronym agencies and we've made particular inroads post-Centauri acquisition of changing, I guess, our profile from a small business into a prime. And that's starting really now to take hold and we're seeing quite a lot of significant wins in that arena. And then we had some delays last year, as you all know, on the directed energy program, which resolved itself in Q4 and as we move forward with another couple of vehicles in that laser program. So again, I think through ‘24, that business itself will be growing in the double digits. So I think that defense and intel, probably, is a real growth driver for us going into next year and really helps us with any volatility that may happen in our next. So, yes.

Yes. So in the government realm, as you all know, we acquired a business called Frazer-Nash and added to it with two other sort of high level consultancies in the digital and advisory space. And we've now integrated that business fully and as we came through last year and that's really starting to pick up momentum and which is terrific. And it really comes in at high margins as well as you would expect with that sort of high end differentiate consulting engineering portfolio. And Frazer-Nash is a little bit unique because 60% of its business is in the government realm, some classified, some in digital, some in cyber, but also in things like nuclear assurance where we're probably the leading consultant. And when you look at things like AUKUS and the new nuclear programs that are around, obviously we're very well positioned there. The other 40% of its business is actually in the commercial arena where it does energy transition, advisory, it does work in solar, et cetera and does a lot of consulting and helping businesses decarbonize with some software tools that allow them to actually measure how they're doing.

So it's quite a diverse consultancy portfolio, but very much pointed at our two businesses. So that's gathering a good head of steam. And then secondly, the Australian government changed last year, it slowed us down a little bit, they've come through their review, and now we're starting to see quite a bit of, I guess, clarity in that market. And we've sort of re-baselined and we're starting to see growth coming through in Australia as well, particularly again, and I would say in that high-end consulting area, whether it's in digital, cyber or interoperability around software. So I think it's a very strong portfolio performing in those key markets today with an opportunity to then move more into the other areas of what I would say that are friends of allies, if you like, in the Middle East and things like that, but we're seeing quite a level of bid activity today. So it's got a very strong outlook to the GSI business.

In terms of the question on energy, as we said earlier, I think there's a huge capital spend, particularly in the Middle East, but also in Asia and somewhat in Australia as well as you all know, we're doing the Pluto project down there, the Pluto LNG sort of revamped for the existing facilities there on a cost-reimbursable basis. So there's lots happening across both ends of the portfolio. And yes, and it's very attractive going forward. And I don't see that slowing down.

Yes, I think, Mariana, you've got to remember our role there. Is we're not -- we're doing supply chain as a service. We're actually not -- we don't physically have trucks or warehousing or packers and things like that. We're coming in to manage a program at scale to somewhat look at a new way of moving the families of the military. And ultimately, we're deploying a very digital backbone to this so that we can deploy AI and ML so that we can actually drive efficiency by not running, thinking rudimentary, two traps to the same place at the same time because they're two different providers, but actually unifying that and taking efficiency gains, which of course will drive our margins but also reduce the carbon footprint of that industry. So I think our role is very, very different than a typical logistics supplier in that realm.
And that's why we talk about increasing margins over time because I think the more, we do it, the more efficient we'll get. The better providers will get more volume. We'll get volume discounts as a consequence, et cetera. So it's quite easy to step back and look at the logic behind this. That doesn't mean it's easy to get done, but we're well on the pathway now and we're pretty confident that over time we can get the margins down. And as I said, in my prepared remarks, we're being very innovative at the way we're looking at this and we're not restricted at all to the current DoD supply chain which I think has been missed by many in the media.

Yes, so I think we've, as I also said in the prepared marks, we've got enough of the supply chain signed up for certainly what's in front of us and we're obviously expanding that daily. So I'm feeling pretty good about the supply chain and the engagement of the supply chain. For the $2, 200, we've got a supplier database that allows the people to sign up or companies to sign up, including small businesses, and to really sort of register their interest to provide services to HomeSafe and that's the $2, 200. And out of that 10 to 2, 200, we've signed 380 contracts already. So we've got very, very good coverage across the supply chain for what we expect going forward.

Yes, STS is going into the probably with its highest level of work under contract that we've seen in recent times. So we're feeling pretty good about that double digit growth for sure. And it's a good balance, I think that's why we feel quite confident. It's the sustainable services piece of the business which is really underpinned by the technologies is going great guns and we'll explain a bit more about that in the STS Primer and then again at Investor Day. I think the drivers around ammonia, we talked about earlier, so I won't cover that again and that rolls into hydrogen of course. I think energy security continues to be a big part in this and you've seen that from many of the energy companies. They want to, they've got to continue to really think about energy security in a very concise way but they are trying to do it in a responsible, decarbonized solution and we are really at the forefront of that. So I think we're very well positioned.

In plastics recycling, again that's a kind of different market. We will be producing first product I think coming to the end of this quarter early in Q2 in the Vulture site in the Mura facility and I think that really opens the door to accelerate that market. I think everyone's waiting to make sure that that all works and of course what we've not really said to the market and probably good to do a little bit today is the fact that there's two other facilities that are being built, one in Korea and one in Japan and they could end up actually if we slip a little bit, they'll end up going first. So we've really got three sort of world-scale plants happening all at the same time now. And one of those is with a modelized solution that we sort of developed after we took additional investments so that bears well for speed to market and cost effectiveness, et cetera, as this continues. So we're really upbeat about that plastic recycling market. And again, we'll cover more of that in the primer.

The other market that's really hot at the moment is [inaudible]. And that's particularly coming out of the Middle East. Both Aramco and SABIC in Saudi have got considerable programs. My expectation is it'll be difficult for everything to happen in parallel. There'll be a little bit of a series development there. But that's kind of okay for us as well, because that just expands the pipeline over time. And I think we're very well positioned on the LTC program. We've talked about before the Liquid to Chemicals program. And hopefully we can get to really sort of announcing something on that later this quarter, if not early Q2.

That's a lot, Steve in one question. Yes, I mean, I think as we said, last quarter we were confident on the $925 million number and I think with what's happened in HomeSafe we're even more confident with the $925 million number and I'll probably leave it at that until we get to May or whatever we have in our Investor Day.

On the synergies, I thought I kind of explained earlier on, the bit that seems to be the connectivity piece between commercial and government is very much what's happening in government international business and Frazer-Nash was a perfect example of that I explained earlier. We're seeing a lot more connectivity in places like Saudi, we're and in Australia for that matter where we're very much seen the contracts there are far more commercial in the government realm and we're seeing a lot more connectivity between the two businesses and our profile and being able to leverage our reputation from one into the other. So I think, again, I'll sort of limit my remarks to that, Steve, until we get to our Investor Day, but it's certainly a hot topic. I understand there's been a lot of discussion around the synergies between these businesses and truth what we should do with them strategically, but we'll get to that when we get to Investor Day, if you don't mind.

Good question. There's nothing in backlog today for HomeSafe in terms of moves and as we start to get clarity, we'll book the backlog, that's probably the way I would suggest. And when we get up to proper cadence, I think there will be an annual booking rather than trying to book 10 years in advance and we've just got to work through that but that's our thoughts at the moment. So more to come on that but I think the takeaway today is that there's nothing really in backlog of any material numbers for HomeSafe in 2024.

I mean today, Gautam, the answer is no. I mean the whole point of SEA and TRANSCOM and KBR are committed to that and I had a conversation of a senior level in TRANSCOM a couple of weeks ago on the subject and I think firstly, neither, we really want providers who are behaving properly and doing proper screening and things as you can imagine for the military and doing what they should be doing from a remuneration perspective. But that, between TRANSCOM and ourselves, we're pretty clear that will not disadvantage KBR commercially either. So I think there's commitment to that. I know there's been a lot of discussion around it, but at the moment, I think it's something we're working through, but I don't see it as a concern. In fact, I see it as a huge positive in terms of the quality of the people that we'll actually get to work for us and absolutely aligns with KBR's values on people. So and actually with TRANSCOM's intentions as well.

Yes, I mean, it's an ongoing annual review process. I think we explained that earlier. There are those economic price adjustments with built into the contract to review as we go forward. And that includes pass through increases in things like fuel. And so it's in that sense, I'm pretty confident we'll get this. I mean we've got most of it, whether we've got the supply chain signed up on the terms that we need them to be signed up on already. Obviously, they've been making hay while the sun shines a little bit during COVID. And I think there's been quite a lot of increases and you can understand the noise. But ultimately, the objective of this is actually to do a better job in terms of quality for and make the move experience better for the military families at the moment, the feedback is not positive in that. And then secondly is actually to somewhat disrupt the industry so it becomes far more competitive and a lot of the middle layers are taken out and we get a focus into the actual truckers and their families and we actually help them grow their businesses because they're performing and they're accountable. So I expect more noise in that sense and I'm concerned about the rate structure. No, I'm not, I think we'll work through that with TRANSCOM and the supply chain in collaboration. And to date we have not seen other than from some making noise in the media too much trouble in that regard.

Okay, thank you very much. Good questions and thank you for your time. As always and your interest in KBR. I think in short, we're well on our path to our $925 million target in EBITDA terms double digit growth with margin expansion going into the year albeit as well, Mark, and the team have done a great job preserving the balance sheet to give this capital deployment optionality and with 75% work under contract feeling really good about the year ahead. So all up very buoyant and obviously the HomeSafe stabilization and a bit more clarity there also really, really helps. So thank you very much indeed. We'll be doing the STS Primer obviously in a couple of weeks’ time which will lead us into Investor Day in due course. So thank you.



