Sumit Roy
Realty Income Corporation (O) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you for that question, Michael. It's a lot of what you just said. If you look at the market today and you look at the cap rate environment, the adjustments that we have seen has not been commensurate with the movement in the cost of capital. And we are coming out with a business plan that basically says, okay, these two variables that we don't control are not going to be part of how we deliver the 4.3% growth and north of 10% total return growth. And that's the reason for the numbers that we have shared with you.

If the cap rates were to adjust, we will be first in line to take advantage of that. If the interest rate environments were to start to go down, which would then have an impact on our cost of capital, i.e., lower cost of capital, we would be first in line to react.

We wanted to come out with a business plan that had no reliance on the capital markets on the funding side and come up with a number which we all believe very, very confidently that we will be able to meet, if not exceed. If the environment were to change, i.e., interest rate were to start to go down et cetera, which would have a positive impact on our cost of capital. Do believe that a lot of the conversations that we are having, so it's not the conversations that have dried up, it's the expectation in the market around what the reservation price needs to be that needs to move.

And that can happen either through the movement of cap rates or through our cost of capital getting better. And right now, we feel very confident in saying the plan that we have has very little to no risk and we can deliver a 10% plus return without having to be aggressive in the market. And that's really the thesis around what we've come out with.

So Michael, the reason I believe that cap rates haven't moved is because of the volatility in the market. If there was certainty that, hey, this cost of capital environment is going to remain at these elevated levels for the next three years, guess what? Cap rates will adjust, will move, and there will be more willingness on the part of the seller to transact today.

We had the tenure at a 4.2 towards the end of last year, it dropped down to 3.75 in January, and then it's back up to 4.2. In that sort of environment, you have sellers that are saying, we expect the Fed to start cutting interest rate later in the year. I think it can hold off another six to seven months. So why transact in this environment today? And I think that's the reason why we have hesitation and lack of this widespread movement in cap rates that one would expect if people were to bind to the fact that this cost of capital environment has been permanently impaired.

So I think in this scenario that you've sort of dictated, if that were to be the norm and if everybody were to accept that, that, hey, for the next three years, the cost of capital environment is not going to change, I do think transactions are going to come back. I do think cap rates will move much more than they have done so. And yes, we'll be the ones first in line to take advantage of that.

Yes, the vast majority of the pipeline are takeouts, Josh. So this is really entering into a forward contract. We are not deploying capital as the assets being developed. And once it's developed and the certificate of occupancy is received, we are essentially buying the asset at that point. And obviously, rent is commencing at that point. So that's how one should think about the development pipeline.

Yes. It's just yet another tool that is available to us to drive growth, Josh. That's how we think about development. We have existing client relationships. They have aggressive plans of expansion. They come to us and they say, hey, we are working with this developer. Would you be interested in getting slightly higher yields than what the market would dictate if this asset were available today? And would you lend your balance sheet to help us expand?

And that is part of how we are building out our development pipeline because the expectation is that the yield one can generate through development should be superior to what one could get in the transaction market if that asset were fully operational today. That was the thesis. Now obviously, you might see that some of the yields that we have posted on these developments were slightly lower than what we were able to get in the acquisitions market, and this is largely a function of how quickly the cost of capital environment changed and the adjustments that did take place on the cap rate side, but on the way down on the cost of capital side, this will also manifest itself as a positive to what the markets are going to be.

So for instance, the types of transactions we are entering into today on the development side, we'll have -- will be reflective of the yield environment today. And if the cost of capital were to improve, let's say, a year from now to 1.5 years from now, when these assets get delivered, there will be a positive spread that you should see on the development yields versus the -- at that time, cap rates that are transacting in the market.

So this is really yet another tool. This will never be a dominant part of our business, but it is certainly a tool that if we want to view ourselves as the real estate partners to leading operators. This is a tool that we want to also provide to our clients to help them grow their business.

So Josh, I think I tried to hint that on the last conversation when somebody asked about what are you seeing, what's driving the movement in the market. I can tell you that we are continuing to have a multitude of conversations with our clients, where there's a disconnect is what is the price at which they are willing to transact. And that's where the disconnect is.

So it's not that suddenly we are not talking to our clients. We, in fact, one of our largest clients, we spoke with them a couple of weeks ago and where the conversation sort of ended was their expectation of cap rates versus what it is that we could -- what it is that we would need to be able to generate the kind of spreads that would allow us to do the transaction. And that's where -- that's the type of conversations we're having.

And clearly, if you look at what we did last year, more than five transactions were above $500 million in size, two of which were above $1 billion in size. That's what we can deliver. That's what we can bring to the table. And that's what our clients need are big solutions to big problems. And so yes, when the spigots open and this reservation price is going to be met by our cost of capital, we will be able to take advantage of and build out our pipeline just like we did the last three years.

Hi, Nate. So I'm not going to start giving you cap rates on assets that we have closed in the first quarter. Suffice it to say that there have been transactions that we have closed on in the first quarter. It is reflective of some of the comments that we've made. There has been movement in cap rates. You'll see that when we report our first quarter numbers, but the movement in cap rates is not as widespread as we would like to see.

It's not reflective of the changes that have occurred in the cost of capital side. So -- but yes, our flow business is ongoing. And we are being a lot more selective about making sure that our spreads are not being compromised just to create volume. And we have the advantage of coming into this year with a business plan that allows us to do that. With regards to occupancy, we have mentioned that it's going to be above 98%. A lot of these were expected, at lease expiration, these were expected vacancies.

And we have -- we generally tend to sort of guide to this low 98% occupancy. Part of what makes our business slightly different from perhaps what you see with the other -- with some of our other peers is we actually like to hold on to some of our vacant assets given the ability to reposition these assets and create more economic value. I know that for a long time over the last six quarters, we were hovering around that 99%, which was unusual for us.

But we are very comfortable if we believe that we can generate more economic value which supersedes the holding cost of some of these vacant assets by repositioning it, et cetera, we are very comfortable doing so. So the way to think about how we run our business is the normalized level of occupancy should be in this 98.5% ZIP code. This 1.5% is vacancy that we need to be able to execute on the plans that I’ve just laid out.

Yes, that's a great question, Brad. I will tell you that even in Europe, the volume of transactions is a lot lower, again, because of this disconnect between buyers and sellers and what each requires to perpetuate a transaction. However, having said that, we are seeing pockets of opportunities, especially in the UK, where we feel like even in this environment, transactions can get done.

And so that, along with the fact that at least in Europe, our cost of debt is significantly lower by 110, 120 basis points. We are continuing to look for opportunities. But the volume being low is not just unique to the U.S. It is across the geographies that we play in.

Haendel, thank you for your question. So a couple of points. I've heard a few comments around free cash flow. We are going to generate north of $800 million in free cash flow. If you think about our $2 billion of acquisition guidance, this represents 40% of the total volume. And on a leverage-neutral basis, this represents 60% of the total capital.

So to be able to generate 200 basis points on free cash flow is actually you can do deals at 2% cap rates and still generate 200 basis points. But obviously, that's not how we think about our business. And by the way, the 200 basis points that we were able to achieve, I would say now about 3 years ago, 2.5 years ago, that was in an environment where our cost of capital was massively different than what it is today. And being able to generate 200 basis points was not that difficult.

On average, from the time we've been tracking spreads, we have always said that the average spread has been 150 basis points. We also want to make it clear that there will be times like last year and the fourth quarter of last year and all of last year where we did 120 basis points, where when you build up a pipeline with a certain backdrop with regards to your cost of capital and the cap rates that you're entering into a contract in. And by the time you close, if your cost of capital environment changes and you're permanently financing it at that point in time, that's precisely what happened all of last year.

We had a very robust pipeline and we were entering into contracts with the expectation of not necessarily 200 basis points, but certainly 150 basis points and sometimes well north of that. But by the time we actually permanently finance the transaction, the cost of capital environment was different. And just to make another point, if you actually look at the cost of permanent financing that we ultimately effectuated in 2023, what we locked in, in terms of spread was closer to 140 basis points. It was 136 basis points, I think.

So much closer to the average that we have since we've been tracking this particular metric. But I just want to make sure that if the expectation is that in any transaction that we enter into, we're going to try to lock in 200 basis points. That's not how we think about pursuing transactions. We also use a bar build strategy where there might be transactions that are precisely the right investment for us. And if it only creates 100 basis points, we believe that on a risk-adjusted return basis, that is the right profile for that investment, we are comfortable doing that particular investment.

But then we will always try to balance it with transactions that have a 200 basis point profile. But that volatility or that spectrum of spreads in this volatile environment is very difficult to predict, which is why we are -- we've come out with the plan that we have, which -- even in this environment, we can still deliver north of 10% without having to rely on the acquisition market.

The integration is going very well. We've closed on the transaction on the 23. We are still very excited about the portfolio we've absorbed. As part of this transaction, we've hired eight people from Spirit on a permanent basis. And we have seven people on a temporary basis that are helping us through the integration process over the next six to nine months.

In terms of the actual portfolio itself, we have not been surprised by -- now that we control this asset and the portfolio of clients that we are exposed to, we have not been negatively surprised on any front. There have been some positive surprises in terms of resolutions to certain clients where the outcome has been slightly more positive.

But I will caution and say that it is still too early to tell. And that is part of the reason why we were very conservative in our underwriting. And what we shared with the market, we felt very comfortable in terms of delivering. But we've also said that it was conservative, and there happens to be upside, which we hope plays out. And if that's the case, we will share that information with you down the road.

What we can share with you, Haendel, is the range that we have shared with you accommodates for any level of credit loss that the Spirit portfolio and/or our portfolio would generate.

It's all of those things, Spenser. I mean -- I think you've been following us for a while. We are constantly looking for ways to grow our portfolio and we are constantly looking at non-traditional ways to growing our earnings. And that will continue to be a massive focus of ours in 2024.

You're absolutely right, part of having to absorb an additional 2,000 assets with 400 new clients, not all new clients, but 400 clients coming from Spirit. There's going to be a fair amount of asset and capital recycling that we would like to also engage in and that is something that the team is very much focused on, trying to take advantage of the time that we have to focus on playing a little bit of defense rather than the offense.

But having said all of that, I do believe that this acquisitions environment can change and can change very quickly. And so the rest of the team, the investment team continues to stay in front of the clients, continues to have conversations, continues to be creative about how we could potentially be a solution to our clients.

And so despite the guidance of $2 billion, I can tell you there is going to be a lot of work, perhaps even more so this year than last year in terms of creating the right tools, creating the right efficiencies, all of the things that we've sort of had to put a little bit on the back burner given the robustness of the investment environment that we've had over the last three years. So I think all of that will manifest itself in a much more scalable business, and we'll be happy to share some of that as and when we put it to use and actually start to realize some of the scale benefits.

We are not waiting on a particular date. There’s obviously a priority of assets that we have identified that we don’t believe to be core to our overall portfolio. Those are already in the market. And then we are culling through the rest of the portfolio to continue to add to our capital recycling program for 2024.

So there isn’t a particular target date, but we’ll be happy to share with you more on this front during the first quarter earnings when we’ll have assumed control of this portfolio for about 2 months and 10 days.

Sure. Smedes, your intuition is accurate. In the retail space here in the U.S., when you start to talk to investment-grade clients on the retail side, on retail boxes, that enter into long-term leases, et cetera, it is very difficult to get them to give you what one would consider to be market growth rates. And so it's the ones that tend to be BBB, BBB minus and sub-investment grade. Those are the clients that you can help drive internal growth.

But let me be very clear that the 50 basis points of increase was not by going lower in the credit cycle on the retail side, but was expanding into other asset types which have a different growth profile than what retail assets do. So what were some of the steps that we took? We obviously went into industrial in a big way. Industrials tend to have, even with investment-grade clients. And at one point, I think virtually all of our clients were investment grade on the industrial side. That's no longer the case as we've matured as a company.

But they too tended to give 2%, 2.5% growth. So that was one of the drivers of the change in the growth profile. The second was going into new asset types like data centers, like gaming. Those do also tend to have higher internal growth profile. And the biggest driver of all of this is really the international business where we do find a lot of growth even on the retail side with investment-grade clients.

So you might recall that we had -- our first transaction was a $0.5 billion sale leaseback with one of the largest grocers in the UK, and that had a growth profile that far superseded the profile that one can get here in the U.S. So it's a combination of all of these factors, different asset types, international, which has allowed us to grow our internal growth from approximately 1% to approximately 1.5%, and that will continue to be a major focus of our business is to how do we take this profile and grow it by another 50 basis points, perhaps more so that this reliance on external acquisitions continues to be minimized.

Yes. I think one of our comments was that you should expect to see a higher number than the $116 million that we accomplished in 2023. As to the actual number, we will be in a position to share that with you during our first quarter earnings call in May.

So Eric, the way we think about the credit business is how can we be a one-stop shop for our clients. Clients with whom we've done traditional sale-leaseback business, that have a need to continue to grow their real estate portfolio. And if there is a disconnect, which we kind of saw last year where what you could get in terms of a sale leaseback in terms of yields versus playing in a much more secured position on a balance sheet and yet get 300, maybe even more basis points of yield on investments, it's a win-win for us as well as for our clients.

And they would much rather do business with somebody that they understand and that they have a relationship with, and we can offer more of these products to them and enhance the economics on our transactions. That's really what's going to drive the credit side of our business. Having said that, it's across the board. I think we've talked about doing a credit investment in the gaming side with Blackstone. We've talked about doing an investment on one of the largest grocers in the UK.

Again, these are the types of examples that you should continue to see. But we are going to be very selective in terms of who we lend to, given that, that is not a core element of our business.

Well, we don't have -- it's unidentified on the non-development side, which was $1.2 billion. Some of it is identified, but a lot of it is discussions that we’re having both here in the U.S. and in the international markets. And if you look at what we did last year, 35% of everything we did was in the international market, 65% was here locally. That could change because it is such a small number.

Based on the discussions today, there could be a lot more on the international side than here, but it’s too early to tell, Linda. If you look at the history, it’s largely been in that 30% to 40% international and 70% to 60%, 60% to 70% U.S. And that’s what we would expect under normalized situation.

Thank you all for joining us today. We look forward to seeing many of you at upcoming investor conferences in the Spain. Thanks. Bye.