Sundaram Nagarajan
Nordson Corporation (NDSN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Allison, as we launched the Ascend strategy, our target was to have 50% of our growth come from organic and 50% from acquisitions. And we also set the stage for our organic growth obviously comes at a higher incremental margins when compared to our acquisitions. So as we move forward, we fundamentally believe this 31% is a sustainable level at which we are operating. Depending on the mix of organic and acquisition, this is a sustainable level that we are able to maintain.

Yeah. We start to -- by the end of the first quarter, we start to anniversary the decline in biopharma due to destocking. Longer term, we fundamentally believe that this is a great marketplace for Nordson and will return to the high single digit number. In the interim though, we are taking a conservative and definitely a realistic view of saying the recovery is going to be slower.

Absolutely not, right? If you think about this, one of the key areas of focus for us is the use of single-use plastics, which essentially go to replace the stainless steel nectars and stainless steel full lines. And that transition is still in its early stages. So we fundamentally believe that there is nothing here that is impaired. It's a matter of timing and it's certainly a matter of recovery certainly, so long-term no issues We expect we'll probably get to high single-digits.

Thank you.

Good morning, Mike.

Steve, you got it?

What I would tell you is the two things that you already acknowledged, which is really historical trends. Certainly, we have a direct sales model. Hence, our teams are spending a lot of time with our customers understanding what their requirements are and when they would show up. If you were to point to anything, you would say the pipeline of opportunities continue to be -- to point towards that timeline of recovery.

Yeah, sure, Mike. IPS has been running at or above our long-term growth rates here now for two, three years now. And what our expectation is that we don't see anything in the order entry that gives us a pause. Good backlog and good order entry that we expect to sustain growth in the coming years. A significant contribution on IPS growth for the coming year would be through the ARAG acquisition.

Sure.

Good morning, Jeff.

Yeah. We just talked about IPS. IPS today at or above our long-term growth rates continue to sustain modest growth in the year coming up. ATS is going to be flattish in that, what I would tell you is that first half we're going to be continuing down, second half continue to improve. And so that will be flattish to slight growth. MFS though, we have medical interventional components continuing to be pretty strong growth for us. Our biopharma business, anniversarying itself and not being a drag, and then improvement in our fluid solutions towards the back half of the year. Overall, our expectation is that MFS returns to a pretty nice growth next year -- modest growth for that segment.

Yeah, let me start it and then, Joe, in his new role can certainly give you some color on ARAG as well. What we see -- remember 45% of our ARAG’s revenues are recurring revenue. And they're typically products or short life replacement cycles. So mostly nozzles and things like that. So we will benefit from that and that is not going to see the pressure you're going to see.

The other thing what I would tell you is that ARAG’s components, much like Nordson, is critical low-cost component for the customers and also components that drive efficiency, reduce waste. And so typically what our expectation is that the -- that we're going to see limited impact from that. And so let me maybe have Joe talk about where we finished the year for ARAG in Nordson fiscal year and then talk a little bit about our expectation for next year.

Yeah, hey, let's -- generally we don't give guidance around the segment, but I will certainly give you some what we are seeing in the marketplace and hopefully that will answer the question, Matt. So let's start with packaging, right? Packaging is doing fairly well. It is -- the order entry rates and things like that suggest that the backlogs have returned to normal. The parts part of the business is doing fairly well. And so we expect packaging to continue to be steady as we have experienced thus far. So that is packaging. As you think about system businesses like coatings or polymers, as we enter the year, we enter the year with some pretty strong backlog. And so we fundamentally believe that that is one that will help us in the growth there. Non-wovens has been a business that continues to -- has not declined any further. Will continue to be tracking in the same place where we are. We certainly have a number of product applications. This is sort of applications such as battery, think about applications in e-commerce, fabric bonding and many other miscellaneous application. This is the part of the business where it is application by application and this one is doing well as well. Hopefully that gives you a little bit more color and hopefully answers the question you're asking, Matt?

Yeah, as you think about test and inspection, we've had strong, strong years here now going. Even last year when our dispense business was down a bit, you also found them to be doing fairly well. But as you go into next year, we expect that we would have challenging comms for our x-ray business. We certainly expect that our optical business and our acoustic business, which we've not talked about in the past, is an area that we feel there is some strength. And too early to say we have reached an inflection point, but certainly telling you that this is an area that we are well positioned to take advantage of any market movement. Customer conversation, pipeline activity, all still indicating second half of the year, calendar year, that we have a good recovery. But I think we feel good about where we are, particularly on CyberOptics, we've had now a year of experience with this. CyberOptics is exactly what we thought it was, incredibly fantastic technology that has added to the portfolio. So our thesis around expanding our precision technology portfolio with CyberOptics is certainly strong. And our expectations are that we continue to be able to solve more problems for our customers and continue to benefit on this investment in semiconductors that is expected to come.

Yeah, I would go back to what we were talking about, which is really great customer conversations, historical trends all pointing towards second half of calendar 2024. Clearly our pipeline activity continues to be pretty good. And our expectation is that, that translates into order entry and translates into shipment. Beyond that, I -- our expectation for the ATS is it's going to be flat, but first half down, second half up. And if you look historically, that has been a fairly good indicator and we believe that. So our guidance is based on APS being flat, not significant growth.

Yeah, that is going fairly well. I would say early times here. We are very pleased with the improvements that teams have made in manufacturing and the business starting to return to where it typically operates. A significant pickup in this business is going to be tied to the electronic customers in Asia as well, right? And so this is a business that has some electronic exposure and that they will benefit from that as the second half picks up for them. But overall on the industrial side it seems to be steady.

Yeah. You're welcome.

Good morning, Walt.

Steve, this is something that you want to touch on?

Yeah, let me start and then Joe can add a little bit more color to the business. As you think about ARAG, right, what we acquired is a European market leader, great technology, strong position in Europe, strong position in South America in an end market that is growing, right? So our models and our expectations are that we deliver on that promise around continuing to grow the European business and continue to grow the South American business. We certainly recognize that we have an opportunity in North America. But we also understand the market dynamics in North America. Any wins and any expansion here will be at least additional icing on the cake, if you so will, to our model. And so, we like the technology, we like the market position, and the market structure in Europe is uniquely different from North America, and maybe let Joe add color to the work that they're doing in Europe and in our technology. So, Joe?

Right, I mean one thing that I would add Walt is really, in general the company is a recession resilient company and a portfolio that helps us get through uncertain economic environments or downturns in specific end markets, right? That's what you saw happen in ‘23. As we think about ‘24, really what were our expectation is [IPSA] (ph) study, ATS is flattish to slight growth, and MFS returns to pretty modest growth. And that's kind of how I would think about it. And a pretty strong EBITDA margin in last year, and we'll continue to expect to see the same next year.

Good morning.

Sorry, go ahead, Steve.

Andrew, I would just add, if I could, the way I think about it is full year, our guidance says we're going to grow 6% at the midpoint, roughly speaking and Q1 is growth of 3%. So basically, it implies that the growth rate picks up past Q1. And part of that, as you mentioned, is the comps get easier in Q2 and Q3, particularly because that's when the ATS and the biopharma pullback really occurred. And so the growth rate is, let's just say, 3% in Q1 and then picks up to 7% in the remaining three quarters, with it being the heaviest in Q2 and Q3 because the comps are easier.

Let me just maybe give you a broad view of how we're thinking about ATS, and then maybe Joe or Steve, you guys could add more color to it. What I would say is, ATS at 24% EBITDA, and you compare them to their competitors in the markets that they play in is pretty strong. And one of the reasons is that, look, the R&D load here is much higher than some of our other businesses. So, expectation shouldn't be that ATS gets to the total company average numbers. It'll -- you're always going to find that you have 14% SG&A cost here in the -- in our business in ATS when compared to IPS, which is a much smaller number. So that’s -- the only level setting I want to do is make sure that you’re not -- your expectations for ATS should be in line with ATS, not in line with the total company average.

Thank you for your time and attention on today's call. We're making great progress on the Ascend strategy. We're well positioned for profitable growth in fiscal 2024. We remain focused on achieving our long-term objective of delivering top-tier revenue growth with leading margins and returns. I wish all of you a happy holiday season. Thank you.
