Ted Christie
Spirit Airlines, Inc. (SAVE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I mean, I think I'd only add, Mike, that, when we hit, and I think I made a comment, when we hit the late summer of last year, there was some notable shift in domestic demand, and we're obviously heavily skewed domestic today.

And that coupled with Pratt & Whitney not moving in our direction by any mean and getting considerably worse burdened the business with both kind of like a bad setup on the topline and a lot of burden in the cost structure. And that was not a good start. But we're starting to make the adjustments we need to make, moving as rapidly as we can.

Looks like the market should stabilize just based on what we saw on the peak of the fourth quarter and what we're already seeing for spring break and we'll make some as Scott alluded to some adjustments you know to right sizing the business as well and all that combined while not fully done and we still have a lot of work to do to get back to where we want to be its progress in the right direction that gives us some confidence that we can start moving the cash needle in the right way.

Thanks for the question. This is Ted. I'll start. Maybe, Scott, you want to jump in. So as I stated, we moved full bore into hiring to hit what we thought was going to be a full utilization airline on a much bigger fleet as we were moving through the second half of 2023. And that did not materialize.

We're going to be, as Scott said, down on average 25 airplanes from where we thought we would be. By the time we hit the end of the year, it's 40. And so, that's a lot of staffing, and that's across the Board. It's everything from our frontline people, our pilots, our flight attendants, the folks at the airports, quite frankly, even the general administrative workforce has some more direct related expense associated with it when you get bigger.

So, we're working with all those various constituents to come up with solutions. We already have some progress on that. I hesitate to give you a number right now, but last year we alluded to the fact that we're pursuing $100 million in structural cost enhancements, and it's sort of tied to that. So it at least gives you some guidance on the bucket.

And then as to your question on pilot staffing, we saw the warm start to turn a little bit in the middle part of last year, and attrition really started to, go down for us. And I've heard similar comments from other airlines as well. So it sounds like all the work that the industry is doing collectively to create more opportunities for pilots to get training, to move through the process, is bearing some fruit.

And we're starting to see, once again, the principles of supply and demand working the way it's supposed to. Wages have gone up for pilots. There's more opportunity for prospective pilots to find options to get trained and to become a professional pilot, and that's beginning to bear fruit. So I think we are starting to get closer and closer in balance. You want to add anything more?

Thanks Conor. It's Ted. Yes. So look, it has to be at least, if not a portion, a significant portion driven around the recovery that we're seeing. And I think that speaks a little bit to how bad it was in the latter part of summer and the fall of last year that didn't feel right to anybody and it feels like it was a little bit of a demand shift and maybe some macro concern about where the economy was heading.

And I think those two things are starting to stabilize. So -- and if we weren't seeing some confidence in that in the way people were booking in both the peaks and off peaks right now, we would tell you, but they are, it does appear to be moving in the right direction.

So, yes, it does imply that we start to continue to see that momentum, coupled with the efforts that we're making on the cost structure and the utilization that we're not right in the second half of last year either. So, it’s definitely both items, but it does require the demand environment to behave the way we're starting to see it behave.

Yes. The comment was around the compensation agreement with Pratt & Whitney for the AOGs. While we don't have an agreement in place today, we do have an estimate for that compensation that will show up as a credit to non-operating expenses. That is in our guidance an assumption for that.

That is what I'm saying, yes.

Sure. Fair enough. Yes, the way the estimate will work in our guide is that we assume that we get compensated on a per AOG amount over the year. So the number of AOGs that happened in the first quarter will have a corresponding amount, as a credit to that expense in the period. So that will -- it will be spread over the year, in other words.

Well, I think a lot of it will be in part to what Matt mentioned around capacity. But we're not going to give guidance for CASM for the year. There's a number of moving pieces around that at this point.

But we do expect to be -- sort of year-over-year, we've talked about it being up probably mid-single digits year-over-year and that's primarily due to capacity constraints and some of the lingering sort of right-sizing components that we'll address through the year.

The $235 million of CapEx is cash. So that's the cash number for CapEx. And we've been asked around minimum liquidity. And I'll say a couple of things.

One is that there was no specific operating minimum for us, but we do have some contractual minimum. We've talked about the $400 million minimum in our royalty bond. Our revolver has a similar number and people often ask about holdback of which we can't give details on.

But just as a marker, our ATL balance is just under $400 million for the end of 2023. So the holdback is usually some factor of that, in which we can't give specifics, but those are sort of markers. But other than that, I can't give you a specific number.

Well, this is a tough one. We're sort of looking at each other. It's the best way to answer it. It's an excellent question, but unfortunately, we don't have clarity on that. The number that would trigger the right answer there would be some stability in what we call the wing-to-wing turn time of the engine.

So after it comes off, how long does it take for it to come back once it's through the shop. And historically, and I'm really reaching back into my early days in the business, we used to see the engine manufacturers get wing-to-wing turn time somewhere in the 90 to 120-day range. Unfortunately, we're seeing Pratt numbers that are in the 300 plus range.

And we're not sure whether or not that is stable, whether or not it will continue to increase or decrease. And so until we get a feel for that, it's hard to say how many "engines" will be through the process. The reason that they will be removed over the course of the year is because they will have reached their threshold to be removed.

So this is obviously the way that the process would work. And we'll just have to see how quickly they can either start to move that term time up and get us back engines and/or produce more spares available for the worldwide fleet to start offsetting some of the pressure.

And I think Scott said earlier that it's hard to guess on what's going to happen in 2025 right now, and that's one of the primary reasons is we don't we don't yet have clarity from them on how they're going to -- how quickly they'll be able to move through this process.


