Theodore Hanson
ASGN, Inc. (ASGN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Maggie, this is Ted. Thanks for the question. I would say demand throughout the fourth quarter, you said October through January was pretty steady. We had program maybe for a little softer last couple of weeks in the firm of furloughs or slowing in spending. And I would say that for the most part, it hung together better than we thought. And therefore, we were a little bit ahead of our number. Not a whole lot other than that. I think the quarter was a similar demand quarter to the third quarter. And as you can see in our guidance, then -- although seasonally, it's a little slower start always in the first quarter, we're predicting about the same based on what we can see right now.

Market demand is softer in some of those areas. And the creative digital marketing in the perm. But yes, I would highlight what Marie said, it’s mostly being driven by higher-than-expected growth in the federal segment, and you’ll see that in the first quarter.

Yes. Rand, do you want to take that one?

Well, I think on the one hand, the administration would like to get as much out on the street to say possible to good job. On the other hand, they're dealing with a continuing resolution. And to the extent they continue to deal with that, we'll continue to perform on the work that we have. But some of the bigger decisions on new work may be delayed. And I think we saw the start of that year in the fourth quarter. So as we said in our remarks, it wasn't an issue of loss work, our submitted waiting awards as a part of our pipeline is as high as it's ever been, but we're going to see most of those things adjudicated, we hope in the first two quarters here, some of those that do not get decided on in the fourth.

Rand, it's pretty much the same as the previous quarter, right?

Tobey, I think we haven't detailed the government peers release, but for some of the ones that we track, they are seasonally below one like we are for Q4. I think it’s the vagary of what are we bidding on versus what are they bidding on and where our relationships versus theirs. But I take a lot of confidence in the size of our submitted weighting award number and in places where we have real relationships. And so while we might have been a little closer to one in a typical quarter. We still would have been below it in our fourth quarter. So we’re positive about the things that we have out there and that we’re waiting to be adjudicated and we’ll have to see how they go here in the first quarter and into the second.

So Joe, I think that I'll start and Rand can chip in here. I wouldn't say there are green shoots there. They're steadiness, if you will. So -- we can see that in a couple of ways when we see our order flow and then we can index that against industry performance. As Rand mentioned it earlier, we now have two industries that are growing sequentially on an adjusted basis and one that's flat. So that's an improvement from 9 out of 5, but we need more than just 2.

So I would say steady, not green shoots, and we'll have to see how this quarter develops. I mean it's typically in the assignment part of the business. You come across seasonally at a slightly lower level coming out of Q4 and into Q1, and that's what we saw. And it's about what we saw in the prior year. So I'd say really no difference there. And then you spend the first quarter kind of reclaiming ground, if you will, as clients release budgets and begin to spend. And so that's kind of what we're monitoring here as we go. Rand, would you add anything else to that?

I think -- well, look, I think that's right, Joe. I mean, our clients are looking for things to either continue that are critical or things that haven't started that are critical, a way to get them done even in the face of tight budgets. I mean they're very aware here that haven't kind of fully released things. And so they've turned to delivery opportunities like our Mexico delivery center. We've seen full utilization plus in that center. And even here over a short time in the last few years, I mean, our headcounts there are growing by 10x. So I think it's a really good example.

Here in the U.S., you can see clients much more willing to look broadly across the U.S. to other lower-cost markets. They're willing to get project teams that are in lower cost areas. They don't have to have certain developers sitting right in Jersey City at a certain exorbitant price per hour, they're just thinking differently about all that stuff. So there's movement going on around that for sure. But I would just reinforce here that clients are taking longer here to fully adjudicate their budgets and their plans for this year and then to begin to release that. But I think it's only a matter of time.

Yes, sure. Absolutely, Rand.

So Joe, so I think that -- you're right. I mean, we would love to be allocating capital right now to strategic acquisition opportunities. I think it's the dearth of opportunities and the real quality opportunities in the market right now. But we're -- we have a very defined shopping list, if you will. We know what we can fulfill and invest in organically. We know what we would like to invest in inorganically to support all the things that Rand was mentioning here earlier around what our clients are thinking about. And that’s going to take just a better flow, which means a little bit more time. And there’s all kinds of underlying reasons, whether it’s private equity still holding on tight and not quite ready to trade assets because the valuation, where the debt markets are and a whole bunch of other things. But we would kind of remain committed here. We’re just going to be ready. And in the meantime, we’re going to stay focused on share repurchases, which you’ve seen us do. And our Board is supporting wholeheartedly, and we’ll kind of watch and measure this out.

Rand, do you want to follow-up on that?

No, that's correct.

Marie?

You're doing the first quarter have the payroll tax reset, right? That's going to influence it a little higher. But look, I mean, our SG&A margins here have been fairly consistent outside of the first quarter. So look to this year, I think they were kind of right at adjusted for below-the-line stuff, just over 17%, and you should expect about the same thing, Andre.

Rand, do you want to talk about that?

Rand?

Well, look, Surinder, first of all, we've got -- today, 600-plus feet on the street with relationships directly into these Fortune 1000 enterprises. And it's that group that have had these client relationships from the traditional IT staffing business all the way through all of the customers' IT business, including consulting. So that doesn't change. And -- we don't need to build that up, if you will. We just need to address client opportunities. And so if it takes a little more, we can obviously scale into that and always have.

On the Consulting side, we put project teams together. And again, you note our delivery model is a little different. I mean, we have about 80% to 85% of our team members on these projects come from our contingent workforce, our IT staffing capabilities. And then we've got a very smart solution oriented with industry expertise team on the top, which are helping architect the solutions to meet the industry need of the customer. And that's working just great.

And so it will continue to build, but I think our model is going to be here that we're definitely on project teams going to bring our contingent labor to bear on it because they are a more perfect fit. They're in the right place at the right price point with a more perfect skill set, the right industry experience, and so we can craft that in every team as we go here. So that's been a winning proposition for our customer and the all-in cost of that is really competitive. And you can see that we win work not only because of our price point, but also the expertise we bring to bear. So we're going to stay the course there.

Well, for sure, the bill rate is better and it's evidenced by the fact we can get a better margin, right? So we tell you that our margin in consulting is 300 or 400 basis points better than what we get in IT staffing. And it is because we're taking on some responsibility here for a certain amount of light or deliverables or milestones. And so from that, we're able to get a better bill rate. I mean, there's no question about that. And what was the second part of your question, Surinder, I'm sorry.

Well, look, I think anytime it's a harder skill set to find we can get a better rate, and it doesn't matter whether it's in and -- it's really in the solution orientation, right? If it's a higher-end solution orientation, we can get a better rate. So all that stands past. Our margins, our markups, if you will, have been pretty steady here and our bill rates are slightly rising, and I think that is part and parcel with the mix of more consultative work that we're doing. And yes, more work we do in AI here, that will only support and improve those.

We're not seeing a trend that is down. I mean I expect that -- typically, we'll get a slight increase in our bill rates year-to-year. I would expect it in '24 versus '23. We don't see anything underlying that would tell us any different right now.

Marie, do you want...

And I think what you're seeing there, Heather, again, it's very steady. I mean I'd say it's not historic low percent of the mix, and there's really no change, if you will, from the third to the fourth or our expectation here for the first quarter is in similar ranges.

Great. Well, I appreciate everyone’s attention here today for the release of our fourth quarter and Q&A that followed, and we look forward to being with you very soon to discuss our first quarter 2024 results.
