Thomas Ryan
Service Corporation International (SCI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

We do, A.J., exactly. We watch that same metric, and we believe that represents your exact thoughts.

We do, AJ. I think it's hard to size it, but it is a significant amount of markets that we've been really precluded from participating in for the last two years by those prior notice agreements, which expire in May. So it's very difficult to predict when or what. But we're excited about it. We do think it kind of allows us to be a little more active as it relates to acquisitions and get back involved in some of those markets. So we're excited about it. We think it will create some momentum. But again, I think deals come when deals come. So it's hard to predict the timing and the size, but we're glad it's coming to an end.

Tobey, maybe the better way to think about it is what's happened in the past is, it was a competitive situation where we would be asked to look at a business, we were at a competitive disadvantage because the seller would know that we have to get prior permission. So maybe that's a better way to think about it is we were kind of behind the 8 Ball because we introduced risk into a transaction that our competitors didn't have to deal with. And that should become more competitive as we move through this May date.

Yes. I think it's steady state. We saw a contraction of the rate, but again, I think if you looked over long periods of time, you're going to have quarterly fluctuations, but we still stick by the 100 to 150 basis point expectation.

Yes. So I think on the projection side, John, if you think back, we historically have said we think we could grow cemetery sales production in the, call it, 3% to 6% range. That's kind of steady-state same-store. Obviously, there's times that we went above that range. There's times we've been below that range. I think the way to think about next year is instead of a 3% to 6%, we're just dial it down a tiny bit, call it 2% to 5%.

And the reason for that is we did a lot of leads through funeral volume traffic and traffic through the cemeteries. So as you think about the pull-forward effect, we're going to have slightly less leads to follow up on. And that's what we're factoring into our numbers. Now again, can we surprise to the upside, I think so. But we need to get through the year to understand better where we are, if that makes sense.

Yes. I think it's fair to say that maybe 3% to 4% of that is acquisition and the rest of its organic.

That's kind of our expectation right now, John, yes.

I think one of the things to understand about the weather from last year, last year, the real problem was we had -- we basically had inventory that was destroyed. And by destroying potential inventory, it delayed any possibility of sale for a matter of months until you could get that inventory repurposed. And that in the range where again this year, to our knowledge, we have not had any kind of event like that. So while you may have had a few days out of the market, I think it's our belief that the customers are there and we'll get in front of them, and we've got great inventory to show our customer base. So yes, we don't anticipate as pronounced an effect as we had last year because of the weather.

We did.

Sometimes, John, it's a matter of timing. But I think, again, I give the credit to our sales force, to give the credit to our inventory teams. We've got a fabulous inventory to sell to the best sales force in the world. So I give the credit where credit is due.

We're about now 3,700, 3,800 salespeople, down from, I think, pre-COVID 4,300. So we're able to --

You know, actually, we're about the same. I mean maybe up slightly, but I'd say we kind of adapted during COVID to 15% less headcount. And you see the results, we've got compounded growth rates at around 10%. So very efficient throughput, great use of technology, great leadership.

Thanks, John.

Sure, Scott. I think if you take a year, as an example, our velocity, again, is slightly flat for the fourth quarter this year. But if you go back to 2019 levels on a year-over-year basis, we're actually up in velocity 11%. So I think sometimes we get so caught up and this velocity has got, I believe we flattened out. I think velocity should now correlate a little better to flat to slightly grow as we think about future. And so if you got 1% to 2% in velocity and you got 4% to 5% in pricing, that's probably the way to think about what we can do in cemetery sales as we munch forward over the next few years. So yes, I would anticipate that, that stabilizes from here and continues to grow off this 11% growth from 2019 levels that we are operating in today.

Yes. So I think on consumer behavior, if you take the high end, we continue to see the high end going strong. And some of that average price and remember, these are over $80,000 sales. But to give you some perspective, we probably had about 400 of those that averaged around, call it, $200,000 sale, back in 2019, around that era. We've almost doubled the number of contracts. So going from 400 contracts at that level to 800, slightly up on the average too. And so that seems some pretty significant growth and continues to look strong. And again, we've always said that probably correlates best with housing and stock market. And I'd say if there's anywhere we're not seeing as robust in activities we like, it is at that lower end. And again, I think that correlates with a lot of other discretionary retailers out there that are seeing a little bit of a stall when you think about that consumer that may or may not be dipping into their savings a little harder, may or may not have the same access to credit, particularly not at attractive rates. So that's where we are. And I think as far as margins, I think you asked about, Scott. Our margins continue to grow. I think we've been operating in this kind of mid-30% range. And I think we'll continue to expect those to push up slightly year-over-year when you think about 2024. I think it's 33% to 35% range, somewhere in there.

Yeah. I think it's so hard to predict, Joanna. I think all we're noticing is that a lot of our lead sources come from activity. So when you have less activity on the funeral home side and the burials and the cemeteries, it can put some pressure on the number of leads that you have to generate and give to our sales force. So we're just acknowledging the fact that if we believe there's a little bit still of a pull-forward effect that it may have a somewhat dampening effect on that lead source. Having said that, the rates that we're closing at are going up. We're getting leads a big growth in digital leads that are very different, not coming off that traffic in the funeral homes and cemeteries. So again, I want to be optimistic. It's very possible that we could have a very strong preneed cemetery sales. I think we're just acknowledging the fact that traditionally to come from this activity and we expect that activity to be slightly down. We feel great about the sales force. We feel great about our digital lead growth, and we've got inventory in the cemeteries to sell. So we're optimistic about '24 and even more so as we get into '25 and '26.

Joanna, I think you're right. It's like I think the base assumption is that it's going to create situations with online GPLs in those situations. Nothing has changed from our perspective on that. We continue to work through that. We continue to test that. I think we have about 1,000 or 1,100 and something in that ballpark at any point in time. Of our 1,500 funeral homes and GPLs online. We mix and match that and test it. We're tiered a lot of ways that I've described before on previous calls. In terms of pricing tiers in particular markets, and we're playing with that as well from starting at prices to a full premium pricing experience that's now hopefully starting to pull in cemetery as well on the digital sites. So no change there. If that's the expectation that's out there and that occurs, again, I think we're going to be there anyway. And we don't think that's going to have any negative effect to our business. If anything, it's flat to maybe even slightly positive from a preneed perspective as we move forward. From a compliance perspective, we take that extremely seriously. We have really good beefed up training already in place on compliance with the funeral rule and all the intricacies of it and such and when you give a price list to a consumer. Let's start, though, about what we do as an industry and what we do as a company. We serve families at a real dire time in their particular lives. And so there's obviously a human element when you're first in touch with the family for the first time, that you have to take into account the caring and compassionate nature of our industry and our particular associates being second to none in that situation. So then you're starting to figure out subjectively when to introduce the GPL. And therefore, if it's objective to start with, the compliance is going to be a little bit subjective as well, and that's where a little bit of the gray area comes into play. We're very proud of our training. We're very proud of our compliance related to the FTC, and we're very supportive of the funeral rule and want the entire industry following that particular part of the rule, and we'll continue to do that. If something else comes down from the FTC, we'll look at it at that particular time. But nothing new has been mentioned to us or more appropriately, we haven't been asked to comment on anything new recently as it relates to the compliance side of the funeral rule.

I don't have any update on their particular timing. That would be in their court.

Thank you everyone for being on the call today. We look forward to talking to you again with our first quarter results. Have a great week.