Thomas Baltimore
Park Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (PK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So it's great. It's always good to talk with you. As you know, there was a lot to unpack there. On the Hawaii piece, I think as Sean put, as he noted in his prepared remarks, Hawaii has been a phenomenal and really strong performer. And despite the fact that the Japanese traveler isn't back, it's -- depending on I think last year, about 600,000 visitors versus -- so if you look over the last 30 years, I think about $1.5 million. So you're still 50%, 60% plus or minus below normalized levels.

We do think, as we noted, that we'll get back to 1.5 million visitors probably in that 2026 time frame. So it continues to provide, I think, incredible tailwinds for us. There's nothing like Hilton Hawaiian Village. When you think about 22 acres, five towers, you've had generations that continue to go there. It's not ultra luxury. And so it appeals to the masses. It's got, obviously, the long history with Hawaii 5.0. So it is special. To answer your question as to whether or not we eclipse 6% or $200 million. I don't know whether it's this year or next year, but I certainly think it's in our future.

As we said in our prepared remarks, we're probably looking at low single-digits this year, given the fact that we're going to try to complete half of the renovation of Rainbow Tower this year. If you look at Tapa and huge credit to Carl Mayfield and his team the design and construction side. I mean we were picking up $75 an additional ADR from that renovation. We expect we'll do something comparable, if not more, what we're planning, obviously at Rainbow Tower. So we are very, very bullish as we look out in Hawaii, Hilton Hawaiian Village. But let's also not forget Hilton Waikoloa, which had a phenomenal year, up 146% in group revenue last year despite the fact that, that property, again, has half the inventory that it had pre-spin. We're generating, I think, $85,000 in EBITDA per guestroom. So it just continues to be a phenomenal performer.

Our asset management team working in conjunction with our operating partners out there. The strong leadership that we've got at Hilton Hawaiian Village, Debbie Bishop and her team just do a phenomenal job. So very, very bullish on Hawai as we look out. And as you know, we're also working on entitling a sixth tower. So we think there's even more upside in Hawaii as we look out. It would be impossible, and I emphasize impossible to replicate what we have at Hilton Hawaiian Village. And that also does not include the 1,000 units of timeshare that we don't own. But at any point, you're looking at guests at 10,000 to 11,000 or more on site at the village. So it is truly iconic and special, and I'm not sure there's another REIT asset across any of the sectors that generates the kind of EBITDA that we do at Hilton Hawaiian Village. So very proud and very bullish and grateful for the hard work there.

Now regarding your question across the portfolio and that the gap that exists. It's pretty interesting when you think about the fact that take January as an example, fourth quarter, we said we were up group 16%. But if you look at just January, urban was up 20%, resort up 10%. If you think about our group pace, our group pace in January, up 29%, February, up 26% and it's broad-based, as we noted, Chicago was up 38%. Denver, up 34%. San Jose in business out there close to Apple and others up 35%. New Orleans up 52%. New York up 21% and despite the fact that we finished last year, up 31% for the year. So you're really seeing the urban group come back and you're also seeing, obviously, the tailwind on the upper of scale. And as we look at our portfolio, obviously, as Sean noted, March will soften, but very, very bullish as we look out for '24 and beyond.

A couple of points of clarification, Dany. We're 3.5% to 5.5% in guidance RevPAR. So obviously, a midpoint of about 4.5 and they were looking at about 150 basis points of tailwind coming out of Casa and then obviously coming out of Bonnet Creek. Admittedly, obviously, January and February, very, very strong based on the trends that we're seeing. There will be a decel in March for all the reasons that we pointed out. Group is going to be down. And of course, you've got the Easter shift will clearly impact.

So yes, there's -- January and February don't make a year. So there's certainly conservatism built into that. But look, we are very pleased. I think you are seeing, as I said previously, you're seeing now -- we had, obviously, the pent-up demand from leisure coming out of the pandemic. You're seeing, obviously, group urban really beginning to gain momentum. And that shouldn't surprise anyone.

Also keep in mind when you look at our portfolio and take New York, I think, is a great example. You've got a 9% reduction in supply there. You've got a lot of people that we're selling and sort of writing off the city. We were not in that camp. You've only got three large hotels that can handle large groups. We look at New York and see more upside, not less. So we see real tailwind in that market in particular as we look out. And obviously, we think we're incredibly well positioned there.

Yes. Smedes, as you can imagine, there will be some negotiations and we certainly don't want to forecast where we think those negotiations will end. I think if you look sort of last year, wage increases were in that sort of 4% to 5% range. But to forecast anything beyond that as it would really be inappropriate at this point.

Look, we have enjoyed, I think, very strong relations with our partners. We've got labor piece, if you will. And I think we had a very successful outcome in 2023, and we would expect something similar here in 2024 and beyond as we look out.

Yes. I think if you look at overall expenses, we're probably in that range. That's probably the better way, I think, to look at it right now.

Yes. A couple of things to keep in mind. Smedes, we've got -- if you think since the spin, we have disposed of nearly 42 assets, sold or disposed of 42 assets for just south of $3 billion. Last year, obviously, one asset sale and then another small kind of leasehold interest that we ended up selling as well. So we’ve set a target of $100 million to $250 million. Tom Morey and his team have done an exceptional job every year. We’re not certainly a desperate seller. So we’ll be disciplined. We’ll be thoughtful about it. And we will look to recycle that capital. We’re confident in our ability to be able to sell assets. I think we continue to demonstrate that.

But we’ll use those proceeds, obviously, and recycle that back for ROI projects. We’ll use it also for reduced leverage, could be opportunistically to buy an asset if something were priced right or to buy back shares. I mean, it’s really been the playbook that we’ve used the last several years. The other comment that I would make is, keep in mind, our top 25 assets really account for about 90% of the value of the company. So the remaining 10% to answer your question directly, that would be a small portion of that 10% as we sort of look at, if you want to kind of frame it between that $100 million to $250 million.

Patrick, the other thing -- the one thing that I would just add, I agree with everything that Sean outlined, but just the natural need to bring your people together, whether that's for training, whether that's for celebration, you got to think this is a -- it sort of makes sense. Everybody was sort of focused initially on pent-up demand and leisure, but as you're getting back people back in the office, they need to be together. And what's really pleasing to see is that we all expected it, but we're beginning to see it accelerate and it's broad-based. And citywide is obviously being the leader in the clubhouse here, but you're also seeing it on the group side, the in-house group side. So very, very encouraging as we look out.

Yes. I would just say '25 group pace is about 97% of 2019 levels as we look out right now and with rate very strong increase in rate, near double-digit increase in rate.

We said in our prepared remarks sort of low single-digits for Hawaii. Just given as Sean noted, obviously, we've got the -- coming off of a strong year, but we've got the renovation, obviously, in the back half of the year. Now we're up 10%. And so far, it's doing well, but we clearly would guide you more to that low single-digits as we think about for the year.

Yes. It's a great question. Obviously, we began Rainbow Tower, obviously, a key tower in Hawaii, expect to finish that next year, sort of in the queue as we're working on Royal Palm, obviously, in Miami and South Beach, Bullseye real estate, about 393 keys. So our design and construction team are working on another transformative renovation for certainly that asset.

Santa Barbara is another one that we're working with our partner, adding potentially going through the entitlement process, but adding another 80 keys there as we look out and clearly, continuing the renovation on New Orleans, but also be in the queue as well. So just few of the assets, but we are really focused, Dori, laser focused on spending money where we're making money. And you can see already the benefits that we're getting and really, we think candidly better than acquisition yields and what we can get in the marketplace.

The question again, Dori, I'm sorry, you broke up.

Again, we have the receivers in control. As a courtesy, I know that Sean occasionally and other members of the team are reaching out. If they have questions or anything that we can do, but the reality is that we're not involved in the day-to-day. We have no economic benefit and no economic risk moving forward. And I think given how San Francisco has played out, I think we would all agree that, that was a very wise and very prudent decision, while difficult, certainly the right decision for Park and for our shareholders.

I see it as a pleasant surprise. As we pointed out, obviously, group was up 16%, obviously, in the fourth quarter. We saw sequential, I think, about 12% increase between third and fourth quarter. And I think we've all been talking about and expecting obviously the group in urban would really begin to accelerate. So I think it's a natural progression. We just sort of got the pickup a little sooner in terms of its acceleration in January and February.

As Sean noted and I noted earlier, obviously, Apple and Cupertino is a great example of we got some short-term business there. Obviously, you had some one-time events of the sugar bowl in New Orleans. But again, New Orleans was up north of 50%. Look at San Jose, obviously, had an event, but up 35%. So you're really starting to see obviously that those business travelers really get back on the road. Again, that need to connect to be together, build those relationships that need is never going to go away. So really, this is a natural progression. And given the fact that if you think about our portfolio, we've got such small and certainly below the long-term average in terms of supply impact, that's going to continue to benefit us as we move forward.

New York, again, you're taking supply out of the market. There hasn't been, I think, a permit approved since 2021. So we look at New York and are very, very bullish. And obviously, we had a great '23 and very encouraged about ‘24 as we look out, just to give another example. Chicago, again, we knew there was going to be a very strong citywide almost near record and up 65%, close to about 780,000 room nights as we look out there, but there was a strong group business in January, which also gave us an additional tailwind there. So it is broad win.

Yes, Anthony, it's a great question. I would say, look, having 3% exposure in San Francisco. And look, it's important to have a diversified portfolio. I would respectfully submit that those groups that say, I'm going to be leisure only. I'm not sure that's really a sustainable or those that are going to be -- I'm going to focus on urban and group, having that diversified portfolio, I think, is really showing significant benefit to us. So as we think about San Francisco, I've said, I certainly expect that, that market is going to come back. I just think that it's going to be elongated and pushed out for the two assets that we own there, obviously, the JW Marriott and also the Hyatt Centric. Certainly, assets that, at this point, we continue to expect to hold as we think about San Jose and Cupertino again, two attractive assets. Downtown L.A., I think, is a different story. They're in a different, complex, challenging situation, not dissimilar to what's happening in San Francisco. And we'll continue to evaluate that submarket and see what we do in the future.

Yes. I mean, look, we've always said from the moment of the spin that we wanted to be leveraged kind of 3x to 5x and we'd certainly like to be closer to 4x. I think in the context of capital markets, it's really beginning to get rerated EBITDA multiple and getting our stock up and something close to the net asset value. I think even the worst of times, we didn't do a dilutive equity raise. We're not going to do one now. We’ve been, I think, passionate and laser-focused on recycling capital. We’ve sold assets. We’ve used that to reinvest back in the portfolio and to buy back stock and reduce leverage. I’d say that we would be anchored in those same goals and principles, but we’re always looking opportunistically. And if there are unique situations that are accretive, we certainly are going to continue to underwrite and explore. But we’ll see. We’ll see how the year unfolds, but we certainly want to be on offense at the appropriate time.

Right now, and last year was a great example of that buying back 15 million shares at an average price of $12 or inside of that was a very prudent decision for shareholders in our view.

Yes. I would open. David, it's great to talk with you, first of all. But I think also, keep in mind that uncertainty is the enemy of decision-making. I think part of what we're all waiting for, we believe the Fed tightening cycle is over. I think we all expect that at some point, whether you're in three reductions this year in interest rates? Or is the Fed funds rate or is it 4, 5 or 6. I certainly think people are looking for that to rerate and certainly would expect, obviously, the debt markets to continue to open up.

Banks are got their own regulatory challenges, but there's certainly plenty of private capital, private credit capital in particular out there. So deals are getting done, albeit at a slower pace. But I think in the second half of the year, you'll begin as we get better visibility, you'll begin to see that open up. There are a lot of people out there who believe that there's going to be tremendous distress. I think you'll see, in my view, probably more of that on the office side that I think you'll see on the lodging side, and there'll be some assets that need to be recapitalized. But this is not the GFC and what we saw back in that period of time. And we'll continue to be thoughtful. We'll continue to reinvest in our portfolio.

Again, we think we can generate higher yields there. And if the gap remains between our share price and NAV, we'll recycle capital and buy back shares. I mean we're definitely not going to look to raise equity in this environment right now given where we're trading. And we're hoping that our continued outperformance will get noticed and that we'll see -- begin to see that rating in our stock price.

Yes, it's a great question, Bill. Look, we know, obviously, given the work that Marriott is doing that they're trying to reinvent, if you will, and I think to elevate the W brand, and we certainly support that. We're not sure that either of those assets are what we would call as pure Ws as we move forward. And we are actually in discussions about repositioning. And we think a soft brand play may make the most sense there. And I'll stop there. But we are carefully exploring our options and ways to create more value with those two well-located assets.

Yes, it's a great question. I could not be prouder Bill, when you see just the magnitude of the work done and the complete transformation of not only adding 100,000 square feet over suspended over water for the Signia ballroom, but then to see the event lawn and to see, obviously, the additional ballroom that we added adjacent to the Waldorf and now the ability to be able to layer in groups and accommodate multiple groups and to have a few hundred thousand square feet of meeting space there, and a renovated golf course. That complete experience and to have really a world-class resort, 350 acres. And Bill, you've heard me say this before. I mean, we're right next to the Four Seasons, which is a fabulous asset, best in the market. I'm not sure what was paid for it, $1.3 million, $1.4 million a key. We're trading at $250,000 a key, maybe slightly above that. I think we’re a pretty good value. So I think that’s something else I’d like and hope that shareholders take away, but we hope you can join us, and we look forward to seeing you.

I appreciate all of you taking time today. Look forward to seeing many of you at the Citi Conference next week. Safe travels.
