Thomas Palmer
Newmont Corporation (NEM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Josh, and good morning. As we did the work to bring the Newcrest reserves and resources into the Newmont standards. We obviously have a tighter set of rules in terms of what makes a Newmont reserve and a Newmont resource. As the numbers came together, once we have the full transparency in the reserves of resources that were very consistent to what we assumed when we did our due diligence back in April and May.

There's a number of moving parts to it, Josh, and talking to the team over the last couple of days and reflecting back on what we did with Goldcorp 5 years ago. I think giving each of you the opportunity to sit down in a more detailed session where we can have our IR team, along with Don Doe, who governs that old process, we can take you through some of those detailed questions and ensure that we're able to adequately answer where you might be seeing most differences. But we -- the works starts, we've obviously debate that statement. So I'd certainly look for our Investor Relations team to set those meetings up and we can spend some quick time taking you through that if that's okay.

Thanks, Lawson. I'll kick off, and I get Karyn to build. When you look at we're transformed [indiscernible] with the acquisition of Newcrest. So as we shaped the Newmont go-forward portfolio. So that Tier 1 portfolio is very different from what Newmont was before. So once we determine that go-forward portfolio then we step back to look at the appropriate capital allocation approach or strategy in the context of a portfolio of Tier 1 assets with a very long life.

We looked at our balance sheet in terms of the debt that we brought on board following the transaction. We looked at the number of shares that we issued to do this transaction, and they are important factors when you sit down and look at our capital allocation framework. So you step back from that, first and foremost, is ensuring that we are putting money on the balance sheet. We're getting the cash to the parameters that Karyn talked about, building that cash up in order to pay down debt, the targets we're going to really important step that we do need.

We're really clear in terms of amount of money we'll put towards reinvestment in the business and seeing that average of $1.3 billion and a $1 per share based dividend is something that is fixed, and you put in the bank in terms of what you're going to expect from Newmont.

So then it becomes what do we do with any dollar over and above having met those requirements with cash proceeds coming in and any net free cash flow that we generate in the context of us having reissued shares and a $1 billion share buyback gives us the vehicle to return any variable component or additional free cash flow. So it was very much in the context of looking at the portfolio that we have transformed to and where we want to take that, that portfolio too in terms of its capital allocation settings.

Karyn, do you want to build on that?

I'll kick off and then Karyn also here with Natascha and Rob, if you want to chip in folks.

I think probably a couple of factors there, Anita. I think we've drilled some 40 kilometers of infill drilling across Peñasquito over the last period of time and then looking at the impacts that may have in terms of reserves and resources. And there a layback in the Peñasco pit is cut back 10. It's scheduled out into the 2030s. But as we did that infill drilling, didn't see the level of metal that we issued this week as we got that great entity of drilling. And so you see that reflected in terms of reserve and resource numbers.

It doesn't mean that we can't get that layback into the system. And our real focus of Peñasquito is curing that we roll up our leads tighten our focus and look to improve the operational efficiencies at that big mine. And I think there's still plenty of upside there. So I think about the time frame out in front of us and the opportunities to improve cost of productivity in Peñasquito, I could say pathways to bring those ounces back in again as we focus on that challenge with a good decade out in front of us.

The second area, [indiscernible] as we looked at the block models and reconciliations over the last period of time, we'll see reconciliations for silver, lead, zinc sitting between 5% and 10% over, so 105% to 110%. Gold was coming in at around 90%, 95%. So as we've updated our mine plans, we incorporated the reconciliations that we've been seeing within our block model. So you're seeing some of that affect [indiscernible] as well.

The governance of that block model we managed separately, it's governed separately from the development of the mine plans. So as we looked at those reconciliations, we may do private updates to the block models.

Yes. Thanks, Anita. So maybe with the Tanami production shaft in a little bit of perspective is 1.5 kilometers deep. And the overbreak, which is the predominant challenge we're working through is at the very bottom of that shaft. So it's at the bottom a couple of hundred meters. To throw out -- we throw out a 1.5 kilometer deep shaft is 3 [indiscernible] towers top-to-tail underground at middle to Northern [indiscernible]. So there's that very bottom of the shaft that we've seen the overbreak.

As we raise board versus the shaft, it's a 6-meter diameter shaft as we've baseboard shaft and you're leaving that parent through rock sitting there, actually they come from the top and line down at the very bottom of the shaft within some broken ground. So you do get some raveling and some ground breaking off into the very bottom of the shaft. And as that relaxed that has broken out in areas to in some areas, double the diameter of that shaft at the very bottom. It's the nature of underground mining and shaft sinking that you'll hit pockets of ground that's got some poor conditions. And so we've seen that what we call overbreak, which means that with the shaft is wider, then you can safely reach out to do rock bolting, [indiscernible] creating and the like to be able to then put the lining on.

So as we stepped through that 10 years ago, if you were doing that work, in the shaft sinking industry, there would have been some very unsafe practices to be able to fill in that area in order to be able to bring back into 6-meter diameter and then line that shaft. We're not prepared to do that. So we first understood the level of overbreak and then developed a range of different methodologies for how we could safely rectify that, had them assessed by third parties and then landed on the one that we believe we can send [indiscernible] down back depth to that location to do that work.

So we have a methodology now that will involve safe rock bolting from a galloway, safe shaft creating from the galloway and then we'll fill that bottom section of the shaft. That's a couple of hundred meters with concrete and then we'll [indiscernible] that bottom section and then we'll come down and line that section alongside the rest of the shaft. And we will have a shaft that will be assembled safely to the appropriate quality to then run for decades to service the ore body at depth. So that's the process we've been through to determine how to appropriately fill the overbreak areas. So hopefully, that gives you some clarity.

There's not a huge part of that shaft. There are certain areas where the [indiscernible] has moved past in hard rock or whatever it might be and you've got a bit of material protruding into the diameter of where you want to line the shaft. So it's really coming through and that being able to clean back break back to the 6-meter diameters. So you've got the appropriate dimension and tolerance about [indiscernible] poor concrete to perform the wall. So there are certain sense where you haven't been able to read out the full 6 [indiscernible] diameter. And so you have to do some rectification both...

Daniel, it's probably it is morning to you, I suspect. Lihir is a big asset developed by, [indiscernible] Mining and then Newcrest picked it up kind of a dozen years ago. A big mine like Lihir is best placed in a big Tier 1 portfolio, we were able to balance out the ebbs and flows of a large complex mine.

So first and foremost, you can with Lihir in a balanced portfolio with 9 other Tier 1 operations, you can develop strategic life of mine plans to optimize the value and allow the ebb and flow of gold production that flows from that as you were through the mining cycle to be appropriately managed. That'd be my first observation.

A second observation that [indiscernible] suffered from being a cash-generating asset in a small portfolio. Therefore, there haven't been the appropriate time and attention on equipment reliability, base fixed and mobile. We're getting after that this year. There's also complexity in that mine plan that we believe can be simplified as we think about how we present the different types of ore and [indiscernible] the materials handling that all through a complex processing plan [indiscernible]. And we see real opportunities there as well.

And one data point, Daniel, that I'd put out there for you One [indiscernible] doesn't make a spring. But as we are in the 3 months that we've had Lihir in the Newmont portfolio, and we've worked with the team there, the dedication of our [indiscernible] or on the ground Managing Director to build a 2024 mine plan and budget that they can get after. The Lihir in the month of January, better plan for the first time in 4 years. And the cultural change and the moral that comes to be able to set a time to get after that feeds on itself, and we see a real opportunity to set the Lihir, so stretching the [indiscernible] targets for them to hit the marks and they get the confidence that they can do things because they set in Newmont portfolio and they were able to give it the support and attention that it deserves. And so hopefully that gives you some color for how we're thinking about the year.

Thanks, Daniel. Wafi-Golpu is one of the great untapped copper resources in the world in a very prolific rig [indiscernible], it's a wonderful part of the world -- to be looking for and mining copper and gold. It's still the study phase. So there's not a significant amount of money being spent on that project. A lot of the focus is working with Harmony, our joint venture partners and the PNG government to work through the necessary negotiations to ensure that you ultimately have an investment regime that you can consider the level of investment over the time frame you [indiscernible] mine to be a secure financial framework. And so that's the main focus with what we're going through at the moment.

It sits there alongside [indiscernible] the Red Chris and the ability to build up pressure oxidation circuit at Yanacocha process the sulfide ores has 3 great copper gold projects. It's a great problem to have. It's an embracement of riches in terms of the projects that line up to complete the capital behind the 4 projects we have in execution. So Wafi-Golpu is going to be a really, really important mine to contribute to the world's need for copper over the next several decades. So -- but you need to have the appropriate investment environment, you then will need to go back in and do the appropriate level of drilling and study work to understand ultimately what the cost of returns will be.

Wafi-Golpu and Red Chris are both block cave mines. We've got that technology in our portfolio. We've got that capability in our portfolio. The block cave mines to invest all of the capital on front before you get a return. So its pretty important that you understand the ore body and you understand the development costs before you [indiscernible]. So that's going to be an important part of Red Chris and Wafi-Golpu for new mine as we make a decision about which projects follow Tanami 2, Ahafo North the 2 block caves at Cadia.

Greg, I think about how to model [indiscernible] returns. I'd put a fixed $1 a share dividend in the model and just run it forward. Any additional cash that we generate over and once we set the parameters on cash debt, were likely that variable component is likely to come through share buybacks. Just then through a major transaction, we have increased our share count and we would look to bring that share count back down again. So for the foreseeable future, bank on $1 share dividend and any variable components of share buyback.

Yes. Thanks, Carey. Just a little bit so I'm pretty sure I heard to say how do we set the gold trial opening up over the next few years. That's just -- I actually have a couple of trips up there sadly over the last couple of months. Real potential at Brucejack to get a really solid understanding of that ore body in life and they have a contributing nice cash for quite some time to come from a nice ore body and exploration potential around that Valley of the Kings area. So a really nice, really nice gold opportunity there.

As you then swing across Red Chris really important -- that spending some time in the call shot at Red Chris and again to appreciate the size and quality of that ore body. It is going to be an amazing block cave mine. So it's really going to be about ensuring that we work to understand how to build that mine to a high-quality, understand the cost, I understand the schedule, understand the various approvals to come with that and develop that line because that line will run for decades. The original can then the other opportunities around them. So that is going to be a real focus in terms of copper in that investment.

And then we bridge off that up to the Galore Creek and the work we'll do with tech to go off. We increased [indiscernible] Creek and then ultimately develop Galore Creek as another great copper mines. So that it will be [indiscernible] potential the condition for both [indiscernible] underground that we really opened up the decades of Red Chris and then pivot off that into Galore Creek.

Natascha, did you want to...

The reserves and resources are set to Newmont standard. I'm looking across the road [indiscernible] he's breathing aside relief because he saw a significant lift from November 6 to a few weeks ago to get that through our processes. So that's [indiscernible] new outstanding. And you're right, what we're doing now is doing the -- so [indiscernible], is great Head of our Mineral Resource Management Group is now running strategic mine plans and life of mine plans on top of those reserve resource statements to build out potential of that got forward portfolio on top of that 5-year outlook.

We'll work that over the course -- over the months ahead. We've got an important strategy day with our Board in June. Our Annual Strategy Day is always in June and we'll spend some time with our Board looking at that longer-term potential, debating that and understanding that to then build towards an Investor Day in the second half. We will start to show you and share with you a picture beyond the 5 years what we see is the potential for this Newmont upgraded portfolio over the next 5, 10, 15, 20-plus years.

We're still debating the time frame for that, but the current thinking is we refer to our normal time frame, which is typically leading around that November time frame that we have our Capital Markets Day and also talking about doing one in New York and one in Australia, so we pick up both sides of our markets. But that's the work in front of us this year is to really get after the strategic lifeline plan. So we give you that -- with confidence to give you that longer-term story for this portfolio.

That's correct, Tanya.

Thanks, operator, and thank you all for your time, and I look forward to catching up with you soon. Thanks, everyone.