Tim FitzGerald
The Middleby Corporation (MIDD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Mig.

And just to round it out, as you kind of think about the year and the backlog, we came in with a lot of backlogs. So there's a lot of shipments in the first quarter. We talked about the inventory destocking. So then as our channel partners really worked down their inventory in the back half of the year, that's been a little bit of a headwind in Q3 and Q4, but that goes away as we kind of look at comparatives in the back half of the year. So one of the reasons I think was just the underlying activities Steve talked about, and then the lack of the headwinds in the back half of the year. Because our orders on Commercial were actually up in Q3 and Q4, but that's obviously not how revenues were as we continue to kind of face the destocking.

So, I'll start off and then I'll let Bryan kind of hit that second part. Yes, I mean, I think certainly we were hoping that the housing market would start to be a little bit more robust. And I think the good news is we've bottomed out. It's a pretty low bottom, right? I mean, relative to the last decade-plus, I mean, it's pretty much the worst housing market that anybody's seen in a long time. And obviously, the interest rate hikes were very significant in the middle of last year. So, that's not that really long ago for the market to absorb all that. We saw a little bit of signs late in the year. The beginning of the year is a bit softer. So, we're kind of bouncing around the bottom.

Our Residential orders also were positive in Q3 and Q4, relative to last year. But again, we had worked down the backlog from a revenue standpoint. So, I mean, I think we are seeing improvements. It's just that we're looking for a big step up in improvement where things kind of move, start to back to more normalized levels as kind of versus slight improvements off of the low. So, I think we're confident that we are going to see improvement as we go through the year. I guess the question is when is that better inflection point happen? But we do think that we will see some more meaningful step up in the back half of the year based on industry stats that we look at.

So, Bryan, maybe?

Maybe just to kind of add some color and pick it apart. I mean, you've got a lot of bigger pieces there. I mean, Viking had -- historically, we've gotten it well into the 20% margin. So, it's certainly fallen below there, but we've been operating at a long point in time well into the 20%s. AGA, which we bought the company, it was at 3%. We had -- we're just coming on to 20% and we've made significant investments at AGA over the last three years as we've gone through COVID. So, as it emerges, we have not only better, exciting products, but we have a much better cost base.

So, I mean, there's kind of a built-in margin improvement for AGA in outdoor, obviously, which has been challenged like all the rest of Residential would make -- the team there has made significant progress in consolidating the platform around logistics. And we have a lot of new, exciting products that James touched on in the past and even in this call, they're coming out that brings the higher price points into the specialty market.

So, kind of structurally, so, A, we're getting back to what we've already proven in the past and then structurally we've made improvements to the business while we've kind of gone through this period. So, we're pretty confident that margins get to be to a pretty attractive place in a normalized market.

I think it's very difficult for us to quantify. I mean, I think we would venture to guess it's tens of millions, but there is -- we know from discussing with our channel partners, they had a lot of inventory. It was not only Middleby inventory. A lot of dealers are trying to get with long lead times in the industry, any product they could get. And then there was concerted effort across many of the partners to work that inventory down in the back half of the year. So, I know it impacted us and it's really hard to quantify it. I mean, I think the indications that we've had by and large is that it is out of the system now. I mean, certainly, there may be some minor pockets left, but we don't view it to be in the same vein of the headwind that we had in the back half.

I think it's, as Steve said, I mean, with the QSRs, it's a little bit more visibly, you can see some of the targets that they've laid out, but the fast-casual segment also has continued to do very well. So, I mean, we see a lot of new entrants coming to market and the ones that are out there expanding. So, we do pretty well in that segment. And convenience stores is also another area where they continue to push into food and beverage. And now we're a stronger player with greater offerings in beverages. We've kind of identified that as a growth opportunity for us. I think those are some other things to kind of round out.

I'd also mention international, particularly Asia, I mean, as you look at some of the long-term growth opportunities and plans there, whether that gets executed this year or in the future years, we feel pretty good about our positioning. You know, as we talk about a lot of the investments we've made with our strategic initiatives, we really have also bolstered our operations in internationally, particularly China, as well as India. So, we're better positioned to serve the local markets there.

I think we've -- I would say broadly. Obviously, pricing I talked about in prior calls has been one of the most strategic initiatives to make sure we're being very thoughtful knowing what costs have done. Obviously, there's been a lot of pricing over the last several years, so I think it's enabled us to be in a very good and strategic position as we move into this year. I do think that there is always going to be procs where I think we have to continue to be very thoughtful about where costs are. And so I would say we're not necessarily done with taking pricing. I think there's still some pockets where we will look to improve.

I think we've been focusing on this several years. And we focus heavily on mix. I mean, I think as we’ve been focusing on technology. So, we're not saying we're taking -- I think we're kind of at a pause point. And I would say it's more of a fine-tuning, right. Because there's been a lot of cost disruption with inflation, kind of across labor, material, shipping. So, I mean, I think now we're going back through the portfolio and making adjustments where it makes sense. And I'll say having the accounting and finance catch up to all this disruption over the last couple of years. So, it's more of a fine tuning.

I think it is worth kind of pointing out and reminding everyone, we did cancel a lot of products as we went through the last three years. So, even as you kind of look at our revenues and organic growth and everything, it's hard to determine as you go through periods with kind of whipsaw demand effect. We intentionally got out of a lot of SKUs, so we've canceled what would have been tens of thousands of products that would have been shipped over the last several years to really reinvest and focus on new products that we were launching into the market at the higher end of the innovation scale.

Hi, Walt.

Yes. So, it's a bit hard to say, right. Like I mean I think with the crystal ball that nobody has, so, I think as we think about our indoor platform, that's going to be kind of more of a radical step up as we go through the year, again, probably starting a bit challenged. Outdoor does have the ability to inflect a bit more, and it could just because of the nature of the grill season and load-ins, et cetera. So, I mean I think as we go through this year, a lot of the channel partners and customers will start to work down some inventory, and they're reticent to load-in for a grill season.

So, I think there'll be a little bit more of a real-time demand of what happens in the spring. And then I think then we get to the end of the year where people start thinking about 2025. We've got a lot of new exciting products that are taking more floor space in 2024, and so, that could have significant impact in the end of 2024 as people are starting to look at 2025 and what the outlook is and what the sell through has been and what the confidence level has been. So, I mean, I think that's -- that is one that could take a bigger -- it's got a bigger beta to it, let's put it that way. But it doesn't have a beta down. It's only a beta up.

I'll take a pass the first part of the question. I think the de-stocking phenomenon has hit Pretty much every segment. I think it hit the general dealer segment just again going back over the last couple years when they were ordering just to find products whether it was, hopefully from us, but from other manufacturers In the segment, so I think general dealer business did have excess inventory.

I think the chain side, the dealers that carried inventory for chains, you also saw inventory show up there and that really is a function of all the chains were placing orders, say a year out going back 12 to 18 months ago, two years ago and as we started to catch up for a manufacturing standpoint, obviously, we started to fulfill more and more and that inventory ended up in the dealer channel or distributor channel.

Now it still lines up against a lot of the new store openings and replacement that the chains are looking for, it just caused kind of back up in the channel, but I think we've, as we've said, by and large have worked through over the last couple quarters. So, it showed up in all areas of business to answer your question both in the, I'll call the general market dealer business and definitely in the chain business as well.

Yes, I wouldn't read necessarily too much into some of the nuances. I think it's just how -- has been flowed obviously. I read more, you have QSRs continue to do very well, so you see why that's -- fast casual continues to do very well, so I think that's why that's up. So, I think it's more certain areas doing just better than others more than some areas to be significantly down overall if that makes sense. So, I mean if you go back, pizza has had a great run, really started in COVID for the last couple of years. It was inevitable that at some point it might slow a bit, and you just see the other segments you pick up. So, that's how I would interpret it more than certain segments being way down.

Yes, so I'll touch on that. I'm not sure how the convert ties into that and obviously we're pretty well positioned from a capital structure with a lot of availability in [Technical Difficulty]. It really hasn't changed [Technical Difficulty]. I mean we may have done a little bit less from an M&A perspective as of late, but that continues to be a core competency and focus of ours. We see continued significant opportunities across all three business platforms to grow them both organically and through acquisition as we've done that for a long time to build into the three platforms that we have today.

I think as we've gone through the bill last year, the market being disrupted with buyers and sellers thinking about what are appropriate multiple, where is market growth, is it going up, down, et cetera. But our expectations, I would say they were not as aligned so as I think it -- as we kind of move into a more normalized environment in 2024 and beyond, I think you'll see us continue to do smart acquisitions to continue to build out our platform.

As you said, Bryan, I mean, I think we do see another strong year of operating cash flow ahead, which is great, obviously, as we reinvest in the business and execute on M&A and de-lever which we were happy to kind of bring down, below 2.5 times. I will also kind of just touch on repeat comments. I mean we have made significant investments this year and last year back into the business from a CapEx standpoint, so that is gone into innovation centers, it's gone into some really great investments in our factories thinking about ice, coffee, packaging.

We've really kind of moved forward some of our businesses' position for growth and we've brought a lot of automation into our factories as well. So, I mean that is part of the story of the margin expansion, as we've mapped that out over the last couple years which is coming into fruition and continues to position us well into next year.

Tami, you probably know that we don't often quote a lot of TAM numbers out there. I mean, the Josper is an amazing product. It is certainly a very premium product for us. So, we're excited about what it can do, but by itself, it probably is not large needle-moving. I think Novy is -- could certainly be of the two -- the bigger difference maker. They have a lot of really great technology, a lot of induction and we see trends moving that way.

Good morning, Jeff.

I mean, sequentially, obviously, things have been a little bit challenging, right, in this segment. So -- and Q4 is typically though, I'll say a bump up from Q3. And it was this quarter even with tough market conditions, overall, there is still some higher seasonal spending, so I do expect that Q1 could be below Q4 levels. But I think if you look at the past three quarters, you can kind of establish a band in which we've been operating and our outlook is that band, it doesn't stretch down and hopefully it starts to stretch up.

Thanks, everybody, for joining us on today's call and we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.