Tim Boyle
Columbia Sportswear Company (COLM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Certainly, as relates to our older book, I wouldn't say in the range of high eighties to 90%. It's a focus for the company and we will complete everything by the end of March, something in that range, where we have full complete view. Remember, we take orders and cancels every day and so we are going to continue to focus on building the book stronger, we get further in the market. As it relates to the USA market conditions, we think that, they have improved substantially since the first of the year. Our DTC business has been incredibly successful and I know that our retailers have had great success liquidating major products after the first of the year. I'm expecting that it's going to be reasonably good marketplace to sell into for fall 2024.

Sure. Remember, we have been operating in China for many, many years, both through a distributor and then as a joint venture and then as our own business. We really underperformed historically there, I would say, in the last several years. Our new team, we call it our new team, Pierre Leon, who is a veteran of the industry has been focused on that market and we are just now seeing some of the key results. He has built a great organization, which is highly focused on localizing the product and engaging with not only the consumers there, but some of the large motor and retail operations. Our expectations is that, that business is going to lead the geographies for us and be very, very successful over time. It's got great metrics right now.

Yes. The reason we mentioned ism we are well-organized and controlled within our own inventories. We have a modest amount of inventory of PFAS remain to be liquidated, which will easily be taken care of during the year. As it relates to legislation in other jurisdictions other than California and New York, there's been noise around the system, the globe frankly on this topic. But there are no other areas that we know of right now that will be anywhere near the deadlines of the California and New York office. I think we can talk about the impact of the threat on our retailers, and I think that's been part of the issue, where we have put a damper in confidence from our retail team, retail partners, excuse me.

As it relates to the Columbia footwear, Columbia has got heavy presence in winter footwear as well. Although, we do have a new set of products launching in spring '24 called Omni-Max, which is a full contingency of platforms including uppers and shared mid soles and outsoles, which has been very well received. And then as it relates to our international business, the footwear component of our international business is much larger. We have a lot of confidence that, we have got the right approach to the business and we will continue to invest in that area as well.

Yes. I think we are seeing in our business as well as our wholesale partners that, bricks-and-mortar businesses tend to do better today than the digital businesses. We see a move for the consumer to move closer to that. We see and feel it as a coach doing digital. And then as it relates to our own e-com business, a portion of the weakness is our structured move away from highly promotional events to have the brand be better representative full price in our own e-comm business. And we talked during the period remarks about how we're planning to bankrupt the food showcase for the brand, but we would expect over time to have less promotional activity.

Well, clearly there has to be revenue enhancements. So, I mean that, we're expecting that the investments we're making during this period and even the prior year will be extended and will yield revenue growth. This is what's going to be important to the business. We see the kinds of revenue growth that we're excited about internationally. We need to get that kind of growth domestically as well. So, I'm confident that we can grow the operating margins back to those numbers. We've historically hit those numbers or greater as the company's history, as a public company. We'll have to be very mindful of our expenses, continue to manage those in a way that our investors are used to seeing us manage those.

Well, we saw significant conservatism in our wholesale partners purchasing patterns, not only in preparation for fall ‘24, but also in preparation for fall ‘20, for spring ‘24, where there was a lot of noise about PAS, et cetera. So, I think the purchasing is been made by our retail partners, excuse wholesale partners, has been on the conservative side. We're prepared to help a bit with inventory that will be have available, but we're not going to take risks on inventory to satisfy anything that they've forgotten to purchase or purchase them and conservatively. So, my expectations are that the inventories at retail will be quite produced and will be in a much healthier position.

Well, I can speak, the company's promotional activities have moderated, certainly, as I said earlier in the e-com space. We can be in a better position with the brands held in our most visible environment. I would expect that as inventories moderate across the channel that you are going to see much less promotional activity. The question depends on the particular retailer and what their own financial, fiscal health is, but I think in general you will see less promotional activity.

Let me talk about the temporary outlet stores first and maybe last Jim to talk a little bit gross margin topic. When we knew at the beginning of last year or maybe even the last part of the prior year that we had too much inventory, there were two strategies that we took to liquidate the inventory. One was to approach the typical vendors that would buy this kind of stuff T. J. Maxx and et cetera, that we have long history with. And there was so much inventory around, frankly, that it became much clearer that we could clear these inventories through our own temporary stores that we could open them profitably, which we have been able to do.

So, we're going to maintain the stores as long as it's necessary to complete the final liquidation of the access inventory. And then we'll take, we'll analyze how many of them ultimately end up being kept, but by far the majority of them will be likely closed.

Thank you, operator. This is Tim. So, I just want to point out that I'm personally very disappointed [indiscernible] we provided today. Our global team is focused on returning and surpassing the levels of growth and profitability that we've historically produced. So, we look forward to talking to you next quarter about how well we're doing on that plan? Thank you.