Tim Hingtgen
Community Health Systems, Inc. (CYH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. And Kevin, I'll tack on to that in terms of our philosophy and the management of our capital spending. We have a really full pipeline. We've talked about that a lot over the last several quarters. The predominant amount of that is on the outpatient side of the business, which we know does not typically have as high of a spend to get those strategic access points put into operation. So that outpatient focus continues to be an area of growth and opportunity for us across the portfolio.

We're also managing that pipeline relative to the gains in staffing so that when we are ready to activate the capital, bring it online, we have a cost-effective way to drive margin and payback on that capital investment. So we're really, I think, hyper focused on phasing this in ways that are really going to be accretive to earnings in the long run. The other thing I would point out is outside of CapEx, it's just keeping some of our powder dry for opportunistic acquisitions. So we'll keep an eye on that as things emerge in the upcoming quarters. On the outpatient side of the business, you heard me reference 2 outpatient ASC acquisitions later last year. We continue to scan our markets for those types of opportunities as well.

Yes, Jason, I think we're investing in a lot of clinical resources to help us monitor the environment, be more on the proactive side of this. We've talked in the past about our centralized GR investments. That was largely a registered nurse organized function under the direction of Dr. Benet. Later last year, we stood up a physician adviser, in-source physician adviser program to really be more active and proactive as much as we can be, but also to counteract any downgrades and denials that the admitting physician and the physician advisers believe is clinically appropriate for inpatient status. So we would expect to see some tail effects, positive tail effects for that in 2024 as well.

Yes, A.J., this is Tim. I'll go back to my comment. The reason we set up the physician adviser program was to make sure that we're supporting the admitting physician's decision with more collaboration with the MA plans or commercial plans in general. We have a strong compliance program across Medicare and every other payer source as well. But in general, to try to counteract some of those adverse trends, we believe we're better positioned going forward to make sure that, that admitting physician's decision is more strongly represented.

The only thing I would add is, to your question is, could you throttle that back? Anything is certainly possible, but similar to what we did in 2023, we were very deliberate in our investments into the core business with the intention of, as Kevin said earlier, working on projects that will help us certainly drive stronger EBITDA performance, which is a benefit to the long-term value of the company and its shareholders. So a similar equation obviously comes into play in 2024. We have a strong pipeline of projects, as I said previously, a lot of those are on the ambulatory side of the business, not as many high dollar inpatient investments that we're making in 2024. So I think it just is a normal settling of the capital spend, but we're very, very deliberate in how we're allocating our cash in that regard.

Thank you, MJ, and thanks to all of you for joining our call today. We look forward to providing you with updates on our progress throughout 2024 and to demonstrating that our strategies and initiatives are producing positive momentum and results. As always, if you have additional questions, you can reach us at (615) 465-7000. Thanks again, and have a great day.