Timothy Gokey
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. (BR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Peter, it's Tim. I'll take that. And clearly, our sales ended lower than we expected even just three months ago. And as you said, that was really continued nice growth in the U.S. and then challenges in Europe. We are -- really the complex environment, whether that be war, whether that be the failure of one of the largest European institutions led to delayed decision-making. And as Edmund said, I just have to repeat it, that we think the impact of this is modest as included in our outlook 2024 is driven by the $400 million backlog.

The color on drilling down further it's really across many of the solutions we saw slowdowns, and remember, our international business has driven a bit more on the GTO side than the ICS side. And there was really just decisional weakness both in post trade and on the Itiviti side.

That is feeding in too because as we look at those opportunities, they haven't gone away. They haven't gone to a competitor, and that is what is leading to really a record pipeline as we enter the year. So we are -- that's why we feel good about the $280 million to $320 million guide for this year, which is obviously a strong recovery. We are anticipating continued nice growth in the U.S., and we're positioning ourselves in Europe so that as decision-making there unlocks, we can really let those things flow through.

Yes. I just think, Dan, on sales visibility, these things are always hard to judge. It is -- and I'll reiterate that whether a sale finishes in June or it finishes in September or October for that matter, it really doesn't make much difference to our results. And I really go to the quality of the conversations, the need that our client institutions continue to express and their intent. And then beyond that, it just gets -- it gets bogged down in contracting in final lots of final details. And since the weakness was in Europe and Europe in the summer is not exactly a hot bed of activity, I'm not here promising that oh it just is going to happen in the next few weeks either. But I do have good confidence that it will happen in this fiscal year.

Yes, Puneet, thank you very much for that. So first of all, just on the -- will it be back-end loaded. I think it is. As you know, our sales are always back-end loaded. It would certainly be my ambition that it might be a little less back-end loaded this coming year, but it's really no promise. It's very hard to judge these because there are large deals in there and the timing of those can just be hard to judge.

What we will always do is each call based on where we are, we'll give you an update on where we think we're going to end up for the year. And then with respect to 2024, but what about beyond, that's a great question. As I said, we feel very good about 2024 based on the backlog we have and everything is baked into our guidance. When we look beyond that, as we think about the recovery we anticipate in our sales this year that really refills our backlog nicely. And we don't anticipate there will be any time where our on-boarding teams would end up with sort of lack of work to do. So it's really about the pace of on-boarding and we think we'll be in good shape for the midterm.

Yes. Thanks, Darrin. We are seeing, first of all, everything largely, when you look at the ICS side of things, the communication side of things, the regulatory solutions, we're doing issuer what we're doing with funds. There's very, very good strength there in the U.S. We've seen that, and we have new things coming down the pipe that we think will add to that strength in ‘24. So that side really feels very solid.

And then on the European side, the business mix, as I said, is more around GTO. So there's more technology solutions. That is more susceptible to decisions that firms make about I mean are they going to make this modernization now or they make it in the next quarter. It tends to be a little bit more driven by their budgets and their priorities. And those firms though are also under more stress. They have higher need, and that does create some volatility in terms of timing of decision-making.

But we have, as I've said, a record pipeline, including the things that didn't get done in the last quarter of this year was just added to that pipeline. And so we feel very good about those conversations and the fact they will ultimately get done.

Yes, Dave. So for Q1, we are -- what we see in our testing is I’m going to say on the high side of mid-single digit is what we're seeing right now, and that does tend to float up a little bit as time goes on because what the testing is we're making a poll right now. And so each week, it ticks up just a little bit.

So it's really based on our testing. And as you know, it's a small portion of the year. And so it's hard to say it's fully predictive of the entire year, but it certainly gives us nice confidence. I can't really drill down by sector or other things.

Yes. Thanks, Dave. And just as a reminder, which I know you know is that this is part of a very significant $16 billion market which has continued to grow. And we're really excited that we have exited the build mode and that we're into the selling mode with a good targeted sales plan. And as I said -- and I go on to say is our competitors are talking about what they will have, and we have that now.

When we drill down into the specific nature when you look into our pipeline, we are seeing right now more demand on the component type side. It is, and that can be part of a bigger transformation but it is -- I think people are feeling much more step-by-step versus taking on large programs to work. And -- but that adds up across institutions. So we're seeing, as I said, good near-term demand around things related to adviser experience, progressions [Ph], alternatives. And then we are seeing longer-term demand on more foundational chunks that would be part of a longer-term transformation. But again, in a step-by-step kind of way.

You've -- Patrick, you broke up a little bit.

Thank you, operator. I hope you can tell how excited we are about our strong fiscal 2023, our outlook for 2024 and how well positioned we are for long-term growth. Speaking of long-term growth, please save the date for our 2023 Investor Day, which will take place in New York City on December 7.

Thank you again for your interest in Broadridge, and we look forward to seeing you in December.