Timothy McGrath
PC Connection, Inc. (CNXN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. So thanks, Anthony. That's good to hear from you.

So during Q4, we did see, as mentioned, a real pullback towards the end of the quarter. And we think Q1 is going to be very similar in terms of our IT rates of growth. That said, in the month of December, our business solutions team did a little better. I think enterprise and public sector had more significant pullbacks. And that really is likely because our customers are trying to evaluate the effects of inflation, interest rates, and what all the economic backdrop means for their businesses. So I think that's kind of consistent across our technology landscape, but that really is what we saw. Tom?

Well, there's certainly a lot of discussion. I think as you might guess, AI and the related ecosystem is on everybody's minds and our customers are engaging us for lots of discussion. Our technical services and solutions capabilities have been ramped up and our customers are using us more in that AI readiness kind of regime overall for their business. But the green shoots really haven't yet started. We -- there's a lot of discussion about projects, but I really wouldn't want to say that we're seeing that business start to take off.

Well, thanks, Anthony. So M&A, of course, is a strategic driver and a priority for us. Over the years, we've had really good history with M&A. We've had a lot of success there. And our balance sheet is in a good place to take on M&A. So we're looking at a number of opportunities. But at this point, obviously has to be accretive and has to be opportunistic. And so while we are looking, we are seeing valuations start to come down slightly nothing further at this point other than it's important, it's strategic, and we'll continue to evaluate it.

Thanks, Anthony.

Yes. I would echo that. We continue to see growth in advanced technology. AI is a driver of additional infrastructure. As you know, Adam, so really storage server hybrid solutions. There's still a lot of discussion there. Software has been very strong, and NetCom for us continues to be strong. We know that's not necessarily the case across the landscape. But the question really becomes when will the device refresh start to kick in. And we know that it will. We just don't know the starting point.

Sure. It's a great question. So when you think about the business, you're absolutely right with public sector. Our federal business was down, and that is large project dependent, and we're confident that that will come back just based on the large projects that are in the funnel and the forecast. And we are seeing a little more consistency with BSG, our Business Solutions Group. But we do predict that a number of our large enterprise customers will be bringing back their large project rollouts. Again, the timing, as we have said, is a little uncertain, but we are thinking that enterprise growth will return probably more towards the second half. But we think exit the year, that could be the growth leader for the company.

Thank you.

Thanks, Justin. I'd like to thank all of our customers, vendor partners, and shareholders for their continued support. And once again, our coworkers for their efforts and extraordinary dedication. Have a great evening.