Toby Rice 
EQT CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Good morning.

Yes. So to provide some more color on the numbers we put out there, I mean there is a mix of wells that are – not all the numbers are the same for what we spud to what we horizontally drill, complete and what we ultimately turn in line. When we put those numbers out – when we have to pick a number, it’s typically the TIL. And so there will be a little bit of a range there to account for some flexibility. If we see a more compelling opportunity in ‘25, we could pause on some of the TIL activity.

Yes, I would say it would be all of the above. Teams are looking across all angles of the business, looking for ways to shave pennies off the program.

Yes. Scott, I think there is two factors that we think about that would cause us to curtail. One is preserving the ability to not lose money. And so that certainly would look for us to curtail. And the other one is we are looking in 2025, where you see a $1 higher pricing, and that is even – that’s going to be further intensive for us to pinch back and deliver those molecules into a higher-priced market. So, yes, it’s something we are watching and thinking a lot about.

Yes. It’s a great question. Listen, I think on the political front, I mean I think political force can override market forces for so long. And our job is to align with the market is to make sure the energy we produce is the cheapest, most reliable, cleanest form of energy that’s out there. And I think eventually, the demand for this product is going to overweigh, I think the political short-term gains that people are thinking that they are helping by doing this. So, I mean long-term, we feel even more optimistic about the large role natural gas will play in the commodity mix going forward. But yes, I mean in the short-term, we need to be sensitive to the market that we are in. Activity reduction is going to be a big thing. I mean a key part of our thinking is we positioned our business to be a low-cost operator in the U.S. I mean our breakevens are significantly lower than what we think is the marginal cost of production. And we are going to see if those marginal producers reduce activities. We have already seen that start to happen. But that’s something we are going to be monitoring and then it’s – eventually, we will have a normal winter. But even without that, with just normal weather, we should be balanced coming into 2025.

Yes. I mean it’s really just asking people to step back and see. It seems like we are in violent disagreement – violent agreement here on what we want from our energy system in the future, like Republican and Democrat, everybody wants more affordable energy. Everybody wants more reliable energy. Everybody wants cleaner energy. And I think the work that we are doing is highlighting, I mean I would say the biggest difference that we are doing, the hump that we need to get people over is to understand that natural gas is a cleaner form of energy. And the good news is we don’t have to play with theories. We don’t have to rely on literature. We have case studies at big scale that show that natural gas is a decarbonizing force, whether that’s simply putting the spotlight in America and showcasing why we are the number one leader in lowering emissions in the world, it’s because of natural gas. And also, I would say the other narrative we need to address is the fact that some people think that America is the largest producer of oil and gas, the regulations or pipeline blockages can’t be that bad. But I think the simple response to that position is yes, we might be the largest producer of oil and gas in the country. We are the largest exporter of LNG in the world. But the question that needs to be asked is, is that enough, we have got ramp of inflation, wars in Ukraine, global emissions still skyrocketing, energy poverty is growing, energy security is crippled. Clearly, the United States needs to do a whole heck of a lot more because the world can only contain so much chaos before it starts spilling over and impacting Americans. So, the world security is our security. And these are simple points that we can make. It is a little bit of a different perspective that people haven’t thought too much about. You lay that common sense approach underneath the framework from climate leaders around the world that recently gathered at COP and came out with a very simple punch list of what needs to happen. Transition fuels are going to be necessary to meet the climate ambitions that we have. That’s a fancy word for natural gas is going to play a role. Carbon capture is going to be a part of those solutions. And then I think also the recognition that solar and wind as great as they can be, they are not the complete solution, and you need a heavyweight solution, and that is natural gas to meet the goal. So, we have got cover from the environmental front, but it’s really just getting this common sense message out, and that’s where we spend a lot of time working the megaphone.

Yes. I would say at a very high level, I mean keys to success is to have a low-cost structure so that we can weather the storm. And that also is going to position us to be opportunistic to play some of the volatility. Operate – and I will let Jeremy expand on that a little bit. But operationally, one of the things that we have looked to build into our business is the ability to bring some surge capacity. So, understand whether that’s choke management and pension volumes back so we can respond to higher price environments or in some cases, just holding back some TILs and building some DUCs. I think having a flexible program is going to be something that’s needed. But that’s going to be more around the edges. Having a low cost structure is going to allow us to run consistent programs and be responsive, but not be completely whipsawed by the commodity price.

Yes. I would say that we had a big step change. I think if you look at the water recycling rate, that’s a big driver on a large portion of our LOE. Obviously, water is the biggest portion. So, the goal for us is to stay in that 95% plus range on water recycling. I think the other benefits that the water system will come through just more efficient logistics to service our completions team and allow to give these guys the space to continue to run hard and continue to capture the operational efficiencies they are seeing there.

Thank you everybody for your time. We are looking forward to executing for you in 2024. Thanks a lot.