Tod Carpenter
Donaldson Company, Inc. (DCI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

So maybe what I'll do is -- this is Tod. So maybe what I'll do is talk at the macro, and Scott could give you a little bit up feel for numbers on cadence as you work to build your model. Just at a macro level, we see strength in Europe, followed by good markets in the United States, okay markets in Latin America and troubled markets in APAC. As you kind of look at across our businesses, clearly, the Mobile Solutions segment is experiencing destocking largely because of the OE portion of our Aftermarket business. And that is what's keeping us into the low single digits type of growth level. IFS continues to be strong, both Aftermarket as well as the Equipment side, and that's more of a broad-based type of comment. And within Life Sciences, we would look to continue to execute and see growth across those base businesses that we have been growing in the prior years. So as we just maybe look at the macro model, we're returning more to a more normal cadence of Donaldson Company, whereby last year, we were 49% first half, 51% second half. We would expect this fiscal year to be more of a 48-52 type of a split.

Well, let me just start and I'll turn it over to Scott here for a little bit more color. But just at the macro level, we're executing extremely well with our strategy on industrial. Clearly, that we talked about at Investors Day with connected-based products, we are seeing share gain within our Aftermarket businesses. Our Equipment-based businesses are hanging quite well overall at the macro atmosphere. So we're pretty comfortable with where we are, what we're seeing, and we'll continue to press and execute our strategy.

Good morning, Nathan.

There's not a huge variance in the numbers, Nathan. And Life Science will be actually a little bit lumpy in the year more than some of the other -- than the other two segments, but just slight degrees of difference throughout the year.

Right.

Exactly. And when you look at what additional CapEx might be needed in the businesses, that particular -- the way we look at that is we will need some additional manufacturing capability across the Life Sciences segment. We will have that investment within the next three years, adding that in to be able to meet the manufacturing capabilities. But we take that all within this guide, we put that all within the investors' targets and gives us confidence within the targets that we talked about last April.

So the $210 million is the opportunity pipeline, and that's why we pointed out that we're 20% of it is approved, right? So 80% of it, we are still looking to go through with the particular OE approval process or we are in flight of the approval process. So -- but that's near term what we're chasing. And we've looked at that $210 million over a seven-year period. It's important to also understand that what we baked into this particular guide out of those seed planting-based businesses is very little revenue for this fiscal year. It really starts to show a bit more next year and then ramps up.

Yeah. We baked that into the current guide that we gave you, obviously, on with what our expectations are. We do expect it to grow double digits within that business. But we also have some pieces to put in place in order to be able to execute that, which we have all put in on the revenue side as well as any particular cost on that into this guide that we just gave you, remembering that we have not owned that business very long. So we'll be integrating it throughout this year.

Yes, it's going to be broad-based, Brian, but you're right. We've grown the Food and Beverage business double digits for a number of years. We expect that to happen again this year. And then, of course, we noted that our Solaris backlogs are at all-time highs. We would have expected that. That just is a good indicator to you that we're executing quite well. And then we would expect Disk Drive coming off easier comps to have a low double-digit type of a growth rate. So you pack all that together, that's how -- that's what really gives us confidence in the numbers we're giving.

Yeah. Thanks, Brian. So it's not one big project. It is more broad-based. And remember that Solaris makes the very small desktop type of bioreactors that would go into laboratory type of use as well as the larger project type of bioreactors that you're referring to. Their backlog is a bit more broad-based than one big elephant, so to speak. So we're happy with the progress that we have there. And then with the newer acquisitions, we're also happy with the very, very broad-based customer acceptance of those particular products and are working with a number of opportunities.

Yeah. So when you talk about the recession, it's really China for us all the time. We're really happy with where we are with China based upon -- we know that that's a very troubled economy over there. Everybody knows that in the world. But we're happy with where we sit, position to when it comes out. That should give us tailwind. We have a number of different market share gains over there that should be able to give us some positive outcomes. However, we have not baked any of that type of lift into F '24 guidance. We believe that will just be a little bit more protracted than it's currently or then was, let's say, seen six months ago. So we're very careful about projecting China. But for the rest of the world, we have not really seen any early indicators of recessionary type of behavior in any of the other geographies. And so we have not contemplated that at this time.

Yeah. Thanks, Rob. Let me just give a little bit more specific color on that. If you recall in our Mobile Solutions aftermarket business, our OE portion of that business is 40% of the revenue. Our independent channel is 60% of the revenue. If you look at just the fourth quarter, we would tell you that our independent channel was roughly flat year-over-year and the OE channel was down mid-teens. So that suggests to you that the destocking across the OE channel, and it's not specific to one end market, but now has more broadened to multiple customers. It has really created a headwind across our Aftermarket. It is not the independent distributor channels. In fact, looking forward, we would expect that destocking from all the behaviors we've seen from the OE to pick up just a little bit, looking forward here in the first two quarters but not appreciably. So therefore, our estimation is that the destocking at the OE side would go in the first Q and likely the second quarter because there's a lot of balance sheet management across the OE sector in our second quarter as we end the calendar year and then pick up in the second half of the year.

So nothing’s changed. Yeah, nothing's changed about the models between the way we operate with our OEs and Donaldson Company. We do things where our computers are linked. And so we get a longer look at their production build rates. They may firm the build rates a little tighter. So say, at more like 90 days rather than 150 days, but we're still very comfortable with what we're seeing across all of the end markets in the Mobile Solutions. So that's agriculture, construction, mining and On-Road, with On-Road likely showing a bit more resiliency than the others.

That concludes the call today. Thanks to everyone who participated, and I look forward to reporting our first quarter fiscal 2024 results in November. Have a great day. Goodbye.