Todd Becker
Green Plains Inc. (GPRE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think when we look at what's the fulcrum, it's really going to come through free cash flow generation and when we think about how we've cleaned up our structure, and we look at the opportunity in '25, and that will begin to start generating significant free cash flow and by '26, you're not just zero net debt, you're negative, you're in the positive situation from the standpoint of you continue to build cash.

And I think that's what we really set ourselves up for, because when we kind of look at our ability to get to where we want to go, a lot of the capital has been spent, some left to be allocated, but there's also some upside as well. So when you look at all of the segments, the IRA Act obviously is a big deal since we started this, and we think that carbon alone has increased in the opportunity. Our ability to commercialize 60-Pro is also a big, big opportunity for us and then lastly, when we look at our clean sugar technology, and our corn oil on top of that, all of that, when you add it all together in '25, it starts to generate significant free cash flow returns and that's really what we set this up for, which is why we simplified this structure.

Where before it was a bit convoluted in terms of how do you get the money to the bottom line, and instead of just focusing on EBITDA, we're going to focus on EPS and free cash flow generation, but look, some things have to happen. We've got to get clean sugar up and running, we've got to think about where number two is going to be, we've got to continue to build out our protein systems, and continue to commercialize 60-Pro and we would like to see a bit of a recovery in value-added prices, but that advantage that comes in is something we're looking forward to in '25, but I think the bigger thing really is this base ability to get a return on carbon capture is something we didn't really plan on being this interesting and I think when you add all that together, that's why I think at this point, not including the base fuel, which by the way, we believe will be more valuable as you decarbonize.

When you -- that's why we at this point, we think that '25 range of guidance that we have put out there is still solid, but it all comes down to the structure of income statement and I think the structure of income statement is changing dramatically with our ability to get money to the bottom line very easily now.

Yeah, we can't really get into because of some of the agreements that are in place with each of the different structures, except to say that what we've laid out in terms of Nebraska, what are the milestones? Their ability to get the Class VI well permits, which Wyoming has started to issue and this company is next in line for that.

Our ordering of compression equipment, which we are in process of finalizing what is needed and then the construction of that. Couple of things we'll have to do in Nebraska in terms of upgrading their pipeline, which I think they're doing anyway. It's a very solid company and then I think when we have all that, it looks like a mid-25 startup and we're not that far away from that, because a lot of work is being done already. They already have been building new laterals for their natural gas to move off of different pipelines.

So all of it's happening. The money's being spent. The difference in this project is the pipes in the ground already. So that's where you think, when you look at Nebraska, it's in an advantaged situation in a much earlier starting point, but that doesn't mean the rest aren't going to come as well. It's just timing at this point, but the econs in Nebraska, what we've laid out, is as we start up mid-year '25, hopefully, which I think we're on track at this point for somewhere in that range, you start generating base load earnings over $100 million a year annualized, just on the three Nebraska plants.

So when you look at that, and I'm looking at it very carefully, when we look at capital allocation, the fastest paybacks, quite frankly, are trying to get more volume out of some of those sites. It doesn't mean I'm going to do a double or anything like that of our sites, but adding a fermenter or adding some grind or adding to some capacities to take advantage of these fast-paying projects, you could supercharge those earnings out of Nebraska pretty fast and that's what we're looking to do.

Those base earnings are so strong and so powerful that those first couple years when they're in 45Z, and hopefully we get 45Z extended, that's some serious cash generation. That's what we're going to go after pretty hard.

Yeah, The base fuels started out weak, so we have to deal with that, but I think overall, it started out weak last year, but actually at this point this year, we're better on the market than last year, if that makes any sense. So, and this cold snap was actually a little bit of what this industry needed to draw some stocks pretty hard and get production offline, and it's taking a little bit longer to come back online.

That doesn't mean it won't come back online, but we're also seeing an uptick right now in blending in some markets. We're also seeing an uptick right now in some export takeaways with some new interest coming in as well. We're trying to assess that to determine on that base fuel and what we do and what the opportunity is. But when you look at it year-over-year at this time, it looks better than it did last year, but again, as we all know, that's a very volatile part of anybody's portfolio.

Our key milestones, as I kind of referenced here, was we want to be able to make Dextrose -- ship Dextrose in commercial quantities and while the contribution may take a little while, once we prove that we can do that, we can do it at scale, and we could ship it to customers being used globally or domestically, so not globally. We know that we're off to the races because the margin structure there exceeds everything else that we would be doing in totality.

So we think that owning and controlling that technology, proving it out at full commercial scale and you can kind of see it online occasionally when we show pictures, this is a game-changing technology that I think redefines Green Plains in the future, on top of carbon capture and on top of the other things that we're doing.

But think about it like this, Jordan. We have plants that may not be on a pipeline. Well they may be clean sugar plants and that's really how we're thinking about this at this at this point. So they may be a full or partial conversion to clean sugar at that point, and we're going to increase our dextrose capabilities.

We are months away from showing the naysayers who said you can't make dextrose to be used in industrial production at a dry grind ethanol facility. We aren't years away, we're months away and we're highly confident that we will be able to compete and ship product. On top of everything else that we've outlined, look, we're well positioned. I wish I had more, actually I wish I could actually have more plants at this point and more production within our platform.

We had as many as 17 plants in the past, but I think within our platform we could see some expansion opportunities or repurposing some plants as well. So net, we don't see a gain in production overall, but we see a gain in our earnings opportunities at 2025 and beyond. So I think we own a very powerful portfolio of technology that is undervalued as well.

We're going to look at our plant stack. We do all the time. We have some work to do. I think we have some areas that we wouldn't mind looking at a different opportunity there, like the east where we would probably put a sugar build out there, and then the west wherever we can take advantage of some of these opportunities. Some of our plants, these plants are getting older. So we have some CapEx to do to improve these plants, but once these carbon initiatives come into play, there'll be plenty of opportunities to make sure that we can upgrade so that we can make as much product as we can.

And so I think over the next couple years, we're going to look at our plant stack to determine what fits, what doesn't, what can we go elsewhere, what can we expand, what can we divest of to earn more offered money in other areas and so we're continuing to look at that and that's one of the areas that, when we think about the future of Green Plains, we have some fantastic locations and some fantastic plants that, quite frankly could produce more and we have other locations that depending on, that may not fit the future of Green Plains, depending on how we think about our technology deployment, but as of right now, we're going to keep the stack we have.

You can't buy an ethanol plant. It's not like you can go out and say to the market, I'd like to buy one. The values are significantly higher than our stock price represents in a replacement perspective. You cannot buy a plant in the market of high quality for the value of what our overall stock price represents today or the value of many portfolios. So while they certainly have pressured us lately, we believe that's unfounded because just the base value of our assets alone, we believe are worth more than what the market's giving us credit for, before you even talk about the additions of MSC, the additions of clean sugars and the additions of carbon capture equipment as well.

Yes. So let's start with what we believe the demand for 60 pro can be. We are in enough discussions right now and I've identified enough demand that would take all of our product if we can get them to buy it and that's really what it comes down to and it just takes time and so whether it's going to be starting in the middle of this year, which is kind of what we're hoping for is to start getting one of our plants sold out for the next 12 months. That's really what.

We're in negotiations around the world at this point on values, but also in the fact that we're getting a lot of conclusions on some testing that's been taking place over the last several years as well. So it's hard to predict when it will start. We say this year we want to have 20% to 30% of our production sold at 60 Pro and that's what we're shooting for every day and we want to have much more than that in 2025 is what we're shooting for every day.

But I can assure you and I can say this, we are in enough negotiations that could eventually take all of it. We just have to get the buyer on the other side to execute and with the changes what we're watching here, which is very interesting, which is the changes in the ratios between corn and soy, when you have soy coming down and soy going up and all of a sudden soy meal coming down and corn staying strong and those ratios have played with buyers' minds a little bit. Like how do they put on something versus a kind of corn-gutton meal replacement all the way to a fish meal replacement?

It's a long answer to say that we have enough demand identified that could take all of our product. It's just a matter of time now and so I can't -- we believe this year we're going to start the program and we think in 2025 it will be much stronger.

Jim Stark Okay. And then included in the release and a separate 8-K this morning you kind of announced that the board is going to initiate a strategic review process, a standstill agreement with kind of a major shareholder. Can you talk about what is elaborate a little bit on what you're going to be doing now from a strategic review perspective that the board and yourself and the management have not been doing over the last two years just to clarify what's changing?

Yeah, that's a great question. I think from the standpoint of where we're at in the evolution of our cycle, we're not very happy with this latest share price decline, but we also want to do its best for all of our long-term shareholders as well, and a lot of people have been in the story for quite a while.

As we said in our release, it's not limited to acquisitions, divestitures, merger sales, partnerships and financing. It's all of those we work on all of the time, plenty of those other than the sale process and the merger process per se. We just think there's a lot of value to unlock here. We talked to a lot of our shareholders and Cora was one of them and I think we came to a good conclusion on how we're going to approach the future.

I think they want to achieve as high of a value as they can for how they're thinking about it, but so do all of our shareholders. So it's not like we haven't done some of these things, but I think when we look at Green Plains, we have a very powerful platform that we believe today is significantly undervalued versus our future cash flows and we're going to have to test the market on that a little bit and more to come on that, but really at this point, I think what's in the press release is what we're going to say at this time, but being on the board and being a large shareholder myself, I strongly believe that there's a lot of value to still achieve out of our platform and Green Plains, and we're going to test that out.

Yeah, we have a couple of different plants. Some actually go right onto the 45Z, but one of our plants still stays on 45Q in those calculations. So there's an upside because we're looking at York and what to do is an old plant with a higher CI score. So they qualify for 45Q plus any carbon credits as well. So what we're looking at first is York to say, how do we first decarbonize that plant and we think we'll probably do it through distillation and significantly drop that. Carbon score, so we can actually earn more on top of that.

So yeah, as a starting point, that's what we're putting out there with upside from there and some of it will be driven by 45Z, some of its driven by 45Q to start going to Z later on so those aren't in the numbers and then on top of that, the more interesting thing that we're seeing is the interest on top of LCFS because LCFS will see where that market goes to, but the interest in the voluntary credits from high quality carbon sequestration and we're just kicking that off, but right now we're seeing values in that $30 to $50 ton range just for good high quality credits from new projects like this.

But I think when you looked at what Summit was able to achieve at $100 a ton, I think there's upside from there as well. So we'll put a little bit out in those numbers, but overall you're right to think about that, but if we can and so when we're done, we think that like a central city's carbon score will be somewhere in the mid-20s before you even get into pharma carbon and before you get into post-combustion carbon or some other areas.

So that gives you an idea of our lowest plant. We'll probably be in the mid to low 20s to start, but York will take a little bit more time to get there. So it'll be a range, but mid-to-low 20s, absolutely we believe is a qualifier for anything that comes out of greed for SAF modelling.

Now our product, it's a little bit of both of what you're saying. So for the food guys, we got to wait to get some of them want to see the plant, the product, what's it running, get our final certification. So that always takes a little bit longer because what we can show them out of York isn't necessarily what they're going to buy out of Shenandoah. So food takes a little bit longer.

On the industrial side, we have already been approved as a product in industrial processes with some of the customers we're talking to and others are in final stages as well, and there has not been any negative feedback from the standpoint of anything industrial which is the largest quantities that we'll start with that this product won't work in their processes. Obviously they want to see the first product out of Shenandoah but we are negotiating for shipments this year and much larger shipments in '25 and '26.

We're on multi-year negotiation taking place and we think we'll get some of those completed in the next kind of 30 days to 45 days and it's a little bit different, I think, than when we started out on protein because protein we were kind of bringing a new product on. It wasn't soy 548, it wasn't corn-gout meal somewhere in between, nobody's ever used it. So that one took probably a little bit longer.

On Greek sugar, on dextrose, it's a carbon copy of what you buy every single day except you get a lower CI and even though maybe sustainability has taken a backseat in some stories, the buyers still want to buy a low CI feedstock because they're still getting, for example, in industrial products, they're still getting requests for them to lower their carbon score of their product as well so the retailer may be able to lower that.

So it's a very different process for us. We just have to make the product now. It's a 200 million plus capability per pound per year. We'll start it up slow, but we'll immediately go to 50% and then work to get to 100%. That's kind of our plan. So this is the year where we kick it off and then as soon as we see that product come out, I think that gives us the confidence to say that we're going to go full bore on where do we go with number two.

Well, first of all, on the 50 pro, what I said is we're earning higher returns internationally than domestically at this point, but we're selling to both markets as we develop our 50 pro market globally, but we definitely get a higher value for the product when it goes offshore.

On the 60 pro market, I would say it's a mix of domestic and export to achieve success. The active member that a lot of aqua is done globally, not necessarily in the U.S., so most of everything we do aqua other than some areas in the U.S. is going to be foreign. In terms of pet, it's a combination of both domestic and foreign export markets and then also when we look at kind of, those are really the two big markets that were focused on 60 pro, but we have enough identified demand and in discussions that could take all of it.

If they all call today, we have some work to do to ramp up, but that's actually, as we often laugh to ourselves, what if they all call today, right? So we have 50 pro on for the rest of the year. We've got things committed in pet for the rest of the year. So we have a team that constantly works every day with global demand to play 60 pro and again, it's not a matter of if, it's going to be a matter of when and it's going to be a matter of how fast and as I said, I'll say it one more time, we have enough identified demand to take all of our product. We just got to get it to that next point.

No, our goal is to have this or better as we move forward. We think there's more to unlock in our platform still. The January freeze, we slowed down a little bit, but it might cost us a point or two, but generally we're back up and running this morning with everything running, every dryer running, every system running this morning.

So, we had a team very -- and we're not done. We still have, we find things every single day. These are getting older, but we are pushing these assets as hard as we can and we think there's more breakthroughs to come to unlock, more capacity just that we even have today, whether it's moving enough corn, conveyors are getting old, those type of things.

So we're not done with achieving run rates. Could there be a down quarter here and there? Sure, but generally speaking, from where we started the year to where we ended the year, made a lot of progress, but there's a long way, still a long way to go and Chris and the operations team across the whole company understand that and are fully focused on getting the most out of our assets every day, but I don't think you should expect that. Our utilization will go down.

But we're not -- its business as usual on every single thing we've laid out. There's nothing changing from that perspective. It's just to make sure that we believe, the board believes, I believe, some of our shareholders believe that we're just undervalued first versus replacement value, second versus the value of our future cash flows. Third, versus the simplification that Jim, outlined and when you -- it's very simple now to get money to the bottom line. We need the market to help us with that.

But we're -- no, nothing's changing in terms of its business as usual. If we are already looking at clean sugar number two, we want to make sure we can make it in clean sugar number one. We got to make sure we pick the best sites, make sure we have the utilities, the wastewater, all the things that we need, that we discover. We are still fully focused on 60 Pro. We are still fully focused on decarbonization. It's business as usual, but I think this is a good time sometimes to also pause to make sure that, what else should we be looking at from a portfolio mix, from the location of our company, from the value of our company, from everything that we've outlined in the press release.

Well, that backlog, first of all, it's addressed the backlog. That backlog has certainly come down a lot just because of the different delays and different projects around the United States. With Navigator not building anymore, as well as some of the enthusiasm that was early enthusiasm, I think when we look at start updates for all the different projects that are out there, Nebraska project being the first, earliest start update, compression equipment is available and so, we're confident that as we put the order in, we'll be able to be up in time for the start-up.

The e-cons, we can't, and the different contracts, we really never put out there what each of those would represent, nor at this point, would we do that except to say that we're giving you a range of what Nebraska is capable of in terms of starting points, with upside from there. The key is, no matter what project is, get it in the ground to earn some 45Zs, try to extend 45Z if we can, and then you move to 45Q and then carbon credit values.

So generally speaking, the e-cons for Nebraska are what we've outlined. The total e-cons, kind of when we look forward for '26 and beyond, and especially when you get into the 45Qs era, they'll come down a little bit, but generally speaking, you want to attack anything you can to get on in the 45Z area.

If we were today fully operating across the Western plants that we have on different pipelines, we would be significantly higher than that relative to our carbon earnings for that, not on top of the fact that we strongly believe that those earnings are going to come, and they're not being appreciated quite frankly in the valuation of our company and the reason I say that is because three years ago nobody wanted to talk about it, nobody believed it. We're a year away from the first project coming online.

So when you look at carbon strategies, earnings, as you get into just on 45Qs, based on the end of 45Z, you're talking about full rate at Green Plains in the 150 rate to 200 rate for the first couple years of Z when all the projects are online in terms of EBITDA, and then dropping a little bit after that when 45Q takes over. So there's some serious earnings power that I think nobody wanted to talk about a year ago, but it's definitely worth talking about today because we're only one year away or so from the first project starting up.

And by the way, lastly, that's a long answer, but there is a project already operating at an ethanol plant in a direct inject that is earning all of the money that we talked about relative to Zs, or relative to the 45Q today where 45Z comes online, but it's happening. Money's being earned already on some of these projects.

Well, it's a combination of everything. Ethanol is down significantly as well. So while the corn basis is down year-over-year, ethanol is down, but flat prices down, which means the storage grains are down. But generally speaking, we just manage the margin. If you take a look at some of the big processors, and I'll give you the generalities, not necessarily what we're at our plant, Nebraska is a 10-over to 20-over basis market today; Middle Iowa processors is a 5-over to 15-over basis market today and Central Illinois is about 10-over to 15-over.

So a lot of people are modelling much lower corn costs generally because they're going back to historical basis in some areas, but generally across the bigger processor market. We're still sitting a little bit over corn, but that's still significantly lower than $1 or $1.50 over corn we were a year ago or two years ago. So that is a nice thing to have, but generally speaking, it all just goes into the equation to come up with a margin and that's really how you achieve your goals.

Yeah, but you're not -- again, it's four components; its natural gas, it's corn, it's ethanol, it's distillers grains. And you can't just look at one of those components to think just because there's a dollar less corn cost, which is $0.30 a gallon, ethanol has adjusted for that. It's not like they -- what corn give it, ethanol can take it their way. So that's kind of what happens is the market is just, you don't just get to earn the full dollar or gallon or dollar or bushel gain just because your input cost dropped. It all goes into the margin. Its corn, ethanol, natural gas and distillers grains, less your operating cost gets you to an EBITDA margin. So it's all just part of the calculation.

Yeah, but remember, often what you see is, we take a -- we look at our EBITDA, we take our -- we adjust for our SG&A because we are an independent company and while you may see others that don't have to necessarily adjust for SG&A, our plants, right now because we have a different type of plant stack than maybe the best producer, it costs us a little bit more, but generally speaking, a little more OpEx, but generally speaking, it's all a combination of and you're not going to gain -- you're not -- the market is not getting the full benefit of this corn input cost breaking hard because everything else has adjusted around it.

So the private market isn't really existing today. There's definitely a lot of interest for plants, but we have a good operating, high quality plant in a good location, it's above -- it's in that $1.80 to $2.00 range before you can even get somebody to even talk to you, a gallon of replacement. To replace a plant today, it's in that $1, well, probably $2 to $2.50 a gallon range to build a plant today from scratch.

When you look at our -- what we think is $950 million gallons or so of capacity and you look at that without, that's without protein, without dextrose, without carbon, without anything today, that's what it would take, I think, in the private market to even think about clearing a plant of any good quality. I think that's some of the bigger issues that we see.

When you look at that compared to our market cap and our net debt position, which is lower, the public markets are a significant discount and it's not just us, it's others that are in public, our significant discount to the valuation of the private market, but that's been going on really since the beginning of time.

So we see that, we see that often and so we're well positioned, but when we look at it from the perspective of decarbonized alcohol, that isn't even being valued yet. So, absolutely the calls come in to say, how do we partner with you? How do we look at your decarbonized alcohol? How do we get supply agreements? Those are just starting, but they want to see, obviously, the carbon capture happen, but decarbonized alcohol will be a very valuable asset and that's why we believe we're well positioned in Nebraska.

Well, if you take a look at SAF capabilities and a demand for SAF, it could be significantly higher than that. Remember, a gallon of ethanol gets cut down by a third. So it's only two-thirds of a gallon of SAF. And when you look at that, take a billion gallons of ethanol, 2600 million gallons of aviation fuel, which is a drop and it doesn't need to be blended, in a 30 billion gallon, 40 billion gallon domestic market, it's a drop in the bucket to get to those numbers.

Again, somebody has to build it. They're going to be expensive. You need billions of dollars to build SAF. I think it's going to come. I think it first comes out as a [indiscernible], which is what we're seeing, but if you really want to get real scale, it's going to have to come out alcohol, but it starts and ends with decarbonized alcohol. If you don't have decarbonized alcohol, you don't have a discussion and that's why we believe first and foremost Nebraska is very valuable within our platform, totally undervalued, but it starts with decarbonized alcohol and the first to market will get some of the best benefits and so that's why we're pushing so fast on these projects.

But no, I think it would be light to say that if successfully a billion gallons would be diverted, I think it'd be billions of gallons and then the market will have to figure out how do they get to what they need just to satisfy everybody else's needs, because it's not like the world needs us to take two or three billion gallons of ethanol off the fuel market. That would have a significant impact to price.

You stumped me a little bit, but, I would only tell you that, look, the carbon intensity is very important. It's measured and monitored. I think people understand if you make sustainable aviation fuel, you're going to lower your carbon intensity of an aircraft and it's a demand pull, not a demand push. I think that's the most. So somebody's realizing it. I don't know that I understood much of what you were saying, but somebody's realizing it, because we are getting -- we continually get calls in for decarbonized outfall to SAF. How do we commercialize it and how do we get it into the demand that's there for today and obviously waiting for greed in the government to give us a bit more guidance on it as well.

I don't know if that's the case or not. I do know that it's been proven that ethanol reduces carbon emissions by over 50%, almost over 50% in automobiles. I'm assuming it'd be the same at minimum, the same in jet in particular emissions as well.

Yeah, thanks, everybody. Look, we're in a really good place. Financially, we're strong as a company. We remain strong. We're not going anywhere. We continually to prove that we've come out of our -- the first half of the year where our plants definitely had some problems and we fixed a lot of those, but we have more to go. We show our operating run rates continue to be steady. I think we've shown the market that we are commercializing products and while some people may have different timelines, we're right on the timeline we thought we would be relative to our initial '25 guidance and where we're sitting for '24.

We've got great product coming. We've got great technology portfolio. We're excited to realize the value of this company and we'll keep you informed on the progress that we're making and we've got some great stuff happening this quarter with start-up of Shenandoah, with the CST system, the startup of SFCT and continue to work on 60 Pro. So keep watching us. We're excited about the future. Thank you.