Todd Schneider
Cintas Corporation (CTAS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Andrew, thanks for the question. Yes, good question. We're -- from a pricing standpoint, as we have spoken about in past quarters, is our pricing has been certainly above historical during fiscal '23, as it needed to be because of the cost inputs. When we think about what that will look like moving forward in our '24 guide, we expect that pricing will return closer to historical and our cost inputs are in a similar spot, as you saw in the CPI report that came out yesterday and the PPI report that came out this morning. We are seeing inflation coming down. I think our team has done a pretty amazing job of managing input costs, both our operational team but our supply chain team which has really benefited us.

So it's -- we do not rely upon pricing as the only lever to gain leverage to expand margin. We are committed to extracting out inefficiencies in our business, and you're seeing that. And you've seen that in fiscal '23. And our guide for fiscal '24 reflects incremental -- attractive incremental margins, and we're going to do it successfully, and we're going to expect that inefficiencies in our business to help us expand margins.

Faiza, thank you for the question. We're not guiding towards a significant economic disruption. Trying to predict economic indicators is certainly very challenging. But I can tell you what's going on, what we're seeing in our business, which is we haven't seen much change in our customer behavior.

Our sales productivity is very good. Our customer retention levels remain quite strong. And there is -- there's still really good interest in our products and our services. Know programmers are still going very well. And there's still the majority of the new accounts that we sell. So we like that very much. We like expanding the pie and those customers are seeing value in what we're providing.

We also like our vertical strategy that -- the vertical sales strategy that has been working quite nicely for us. So I would say, reasonably so business as usual is what we would expect. We recognize there will be ups and downs in macro environments, but we're not guiding towards anything -- any economic downturn.

Certainly. Our relationship with Google gives us a better, faster, smarter, cheaper way to store our critical data. But we see it as it can do so much more, due in large part because of the relationship that Google has with SAP and the relationship we have with SAP and now Google. As you all know, we have had a very successful relationship with SAP for over a decade now. And we've spoken in the past that it is much more than just a customer vendor relationship. It's a strategic relationship.

So you combine that with just a couple of months ago, SAP and Google announced that they have an expanded partnership. And what that's going to do is it's going to allow our SAP data to be connected with the Google Cloud Data and analytics technology, which will give us access to their advanced AI and machine learning capabilities. So we're excited about that. It's going to -- we think we can benefit for many years to come as this type of relationship.

But you asked Faiza for a few examples. So I'll give you a few to help give a little color around it. We see having these technologies connected, the opportunity to put in front of our sales organization instead of calling, I'll say, more blindly on who to try to sell our services to, we call it next best prospect for our sales team to have real technologies to push in front of them. Here's where you go spend your time. We think that's significant and can have an impact on our productivity and our retention and morale productivity, all those things. Next best product for the customer.

So instead of just trying to figure that out, we can put that in front of our sales team to -- and our service team to make sure that they're talking to our customers about the next best product that would fit based upon other customer behaviors. We think certain customer service functions could be enhanced nicely over the coming years. There is -- we all use Google Maps, and we see an opportunity to leverage Google Maps to even further enhance our Smart Truck technology to make routing even more dynamic, which will save us time, saves us energy, saves us -- allows for more time in front of our customers instead of on the road.

And then just one more, I would say is that, our service team, we're blessed to have a lot of customers. We want to make sure that they're spending -- they're in front of the right customers at the right time. And we see the potential to leverage that type of technology to point them in the right direction to make sure that they're focused on any at-risk customers and customers that we need to enhance the effort with them with the people in front of them.

So hopefully, that gives you a little color around it. Again, this is not -- we don't see this as an event, we see this as a process and the coming years, we think it can be very impactful for our business and our customers.

Thank you, Ashish. I'll start, and if Mike wants to chime in. The First Aid and Safety business is going quite well. We really like that business. We've -- we see significant opportunities in the future there. And we're getting leverage there, really growth -- the strong growth is really helping us get some real leverage but the mix of business is very attractive. We spoke about during the peaks of the pandemic now, there was more PPE sales and safety sales. And the mix is now back to what we really like, it's a cabinet sale that are repeat in nature and higher margin. So we really like the mix, but the growth in total is great.

And I would tell you that the value proposition is really resonating our customers are trying to make sure that they're reinvesting in their people. Health and wellness is a concept that is resonating very strongly in the marketplace, and we're leveraging that and benefiting from that. And on top of that, we're also -- we have inefficiencies in that business as well. So we're extracting out those inefficiencies. They're going to help us continue to expand our margins. But we like the position we're in, we like the tailwinds we have with the health and wellness, and we think the future is quite bright in that area.

Certainly. Our key verticals where we're focusing our time is health care, education and government. We've organized around those verticals. We have products and services that are attractive to them. Certain service functions dedicated to them. And as a result, we're really benefiting from it. And we very much think that they're smart verticals to invest in. And as a result, they're growing really attractively. And customer retention is good, new business is good. And we think that there's a real long opportunity here for us to continue to invest in these into the future. Certainly, the demographics of health care are quite attractive. But education and government are doing well in addition, and we're going to continue to invest in those areas. So it's paying dividends for us.

Yes, Manav, you were -- I couldn't hear the first part, but I think I understand your question. I'll try to answer it. And if I don't, then please let me know. The know programmers are -- it's going quite well. And it has historically been a significant portion of what we sell, and it continues to be a significant portion of what we sell. And we have products and services that are attractive to them. We have a sales effort that is, I'd say, skilled at identifying and delivering the message to those folks.

And I think it's important to understand that with know programmers, it's not always -- I would say rarely is it just all incremental new spend to them. Many, many cases, we are able to -- they're spending those dollars somewhere in many cases, with other vendors, maybe not a direct competitor, but they're spending money on compliance and image and safety and cleanliness, those types of things. And as a result, we're able to redirect those dollars to us, in many cases, save the money. So don't think of it all as, oh my gosh, is there an end to that because if the economy -- there's any stress in it that they're not going to be able to sell know programmers there, quite the opposite. We're -- we see a very, very long runway there. So that's attractive.

As far as the competitive set, I mean, we operate in a very competitive industry, a very competitive environment. I would say I haven't seen any changes to the competitive landscape from that standpoint. So I'll leave it at that.

Well, it's certainly going to be a process. We just entered into our relationship with them recently. We've had meetings with them to talk about where we're going to go here. And as I mentioned, it's not an event. It's a process. But we see some low-hanging fruit, I guess is the best way to say it. But as we have gone down this path, more ideas are coming out. So we think we can benefit for years to come with this opportunity. And I won't go into too much detail just because we see some competitive advantages there. And so as a result, we'll keep those to ourselves. But we think the runway is long and attractive.

Yes. Josh, it's a good question. It's a mix. Cross-sell has been very helpful for us over the last number of years and will continue to be. But we love new customers. And the Fire and First Aid, there is some overlap, but not complete overlap. And so it allows us to get into speaking to customers about that. And the first time they may have done business with us at all. So -- and then we -- separately we have an enterprise sales organization that will call a customer or prospect.

And frankly, it doesn't really matter to us what they start with. It's whatever the customer is interested in. If a customer doesn't do any business with us and they want to start -- their interest is in Fire, wonderful, or if it's in First Aid, wonderful, or rental garments, then we go where the interest is and then we expand out that relationship from there. So we love the fact that there isn't complete overlap, and it gets us into new opportunities and then we cross-sell like crazy.

Thanks for the question, Justin. I'll try to answer and see if Mike wants to expand upon it. So when you think about our growth, Q4 growth was around 10%, which is really nice growth, especially considering a strong comp of last year of 12.7%, which was our strongest growth of the year, that year.

So if you compare that 10% to the -- I'll call it the top end of our guide or in the mid-7s to higher 7s, you can think of that as really pricing returning back to closer to historical levels. And as I mentioned earlier, the reason that we see this as appropriate and is we're seeing an easing of inflation. And we saw that -- you can see that in the drop in the cost of energy that we've seen, the benefit we received in Q4. And as I mentioned earlier, also you saw it in the CPI report yesterday and the PPI report today.

So -- and as you appropriately said, I mean, we're guiding towards a more historical type of growth volume growth is really good still. Pricing will return closer to historical appropriately so. But all that being said, we will still have -- we're guiding towards incremental margins and operating margin expansion. So pricing is a lever, but it's not our only lever available to us in order to expand margins.

Good morning, George. It's a pretty -- the environment hasn't changed significantly. The health of customers is varies based upon geographic, what type of business they're in, small, medium, large, those types of things. But generally speaking, the sales process and has not elongated the sales pipe looks very good. We like the spot we're in. And we have invested appropriately. We're in the right -- we've got the right products and services.

We've got the right focus on our customers, and we think that we're well positioned for the future. And we certainly are trying to make sure that we're planning for the long term. And we're -- as I mentioned earlier, not trying to be an economic forecasting business, but we are making sure that we're watching our business very closely and hoping for clear sailing ahead with the economy. That being said, we will find a way to be successful as we have in the past.

Certainly, George. The healthcare business has been strong for us for a number of years. And is large part not just having a sales focus, but organizing around those customers, products, services, our service organization. So it's more than just sales. It is making sure that we look at it as a business. And it's growing -- it's accretive to our growth rates. We see very long runway there. As I mentioned earlier, the demographics are really attractive. But the pipeline of sales growth looks robust. And that's because of years of investment in making sure we're really well positioned, and we see that continuing.

Yes, Tim, we do not expect to give back, we expect to maintain and build on those improvements. And we're leveraging certainly the total growth, the benefits of health and wellness being important to people in the marketplace. The mix of business being attractive and we've fundamentally focused on extracting out inefficiencies in the business. So -- and we're not giving those back. So yes, we see the future is bright for that business.

Great question, Tim. So, over the past few years, we've seen a nice improvement to our customer retention levels through the pandemic. We think that we handle that really strategically, intelligently and thought about the long term. And we saw our customer satisfaction scores go up at that same time. And we've continued to see those same levels of customer satisfaction and retention levels.

So no, we have not seen a change from that standpoint. And we're always working on improving our business and making sure that we are super focused on making sure we're taking great care of our customers and staying attentive to their needs, is a big part of what makes us successful. So we've not seen a change, and we're focused on making sure that doesn't happen.

Kartik, we have not seen a change to our ad stops metrics, and we are expecting that, that will continue. We're -- part of it is because of the diversity of our customer base, not just good producing services providing and the broadness of our customer base. We're not dependent upon any one particular area and we expect to grow in multiples of GDP. And all that being said, we expect that and stops metrics will continue on its path.

Well, Seth, good morning. We like the momentum in all of our businesses. So will there be some above, some below? Yes. But it's -- but generally speaking, we see in the mid-to-high single digits would be probably where you can think of it. And it's -- and as I mentioned earlier, the -- we're up against comps that are significant, partly because of pricing being above historical in the past, well above historical, now it being closer to historical.

Good morning, Heather. So yes, our Uniform Rental business is performing quite well. We've -- we think we have invested appropriately in the sales organization. We really like where we're going there. We like the productivity levels. They've continued to go up. And there's plenty of inputs to productivity and it's whether it's products that we launch, services that we launch, the retention levels of our people, the leadership of the organization to make sure that we're driving items that make them more successful.

So no, it's going well, and our service organization is doing an outstanding job with customer retention, making sure, as I mentioned earlier, our customer satisfaction scores are near all-time highs. And as a result of that, our lost business, our customer retention, the appropriate way to say it. Our customer retention is really attractive. So our new is up and our customer retention is improved over pre-COVID levels. So those are big for us and having a really positive impact on the business.

Yes, Heather, we're certainly investigating and investing in opportunities. And we think we're with the right partners. When you think about Verizon, SAP and Google, having those three as the -- our technology -- our strategic technology partners, we think we're with the right folks. And we don't just have a customer vendor relationship with them, we have a strategic relationship with them, and they're helping us -- they are and will help us to leverage those opportunities in the marketplace.

So I can't lay out specifics for you, but I'll just tell you this, we're -- we see the opportunity to invest in that area, and we are doing so appropriately because we think it will pay big dividends. That being said, it will be -- we'll be speaking about this for many, many years to come because we think the benefit has a real -- has a lot of legs to it.

Scott, let me make sure I understand. You're saying if we can't get to leverage or if the economic environment changes?

Yes. Certainly. Good question. I -- we have a very tenured, very experienced leadership team, management team that has been through the cycles. It seems like you name it, we've been through it, and we expect to be successful in all environments. Now -- so your -- the question is a tough one to answer because the economic downturn, how deep is it? How long is it? How broad? And so trying to understand that is challenging. But we expect to be successful in all economic environments.

If you're talking about a massive downturn in '08, '09, that might be different. But we're ready. We know how to do this. We have demonstrated our ability to be successful in and all these different types of economic environments. We have grown our sales and profits in 52 -- in the last 54 years. And my expectation is we will absolutely do so and we will find and fight and a way to be successful in whatever economic environment. So plenty of levers available to us. And we think we've got the right team in place to manage that.

Good question, Shlomo. We love it when our customers are hiring more employees and it certainly allows you to swim a little bit downstream then. But we've got to find ways to add value to customers even when they're in the more flattish type environment. That being said, there is still almost 10 million job openings. So that's very encouraging.

We'd love to see those jobs filled. But we are -- we're going to find a way to be successful whether our customers are hiring at rapid rates or at much lower rates, we're going to find a way to be successful. And that is impacted by our ability to -- we would call it cross-sell, bring more value to the customers in other products and services that they may have with maybe a new business unit, but maybe within that business unit just selling more items.

So there's a lot of inputs to that and how we categorize it. But we're -- we like the spot that we're in. And we think the products and services and the value proposition that we're providing is resonating with people. And would certainly love the economic to continue or even improve.

Thank you, Toni. We -- the answer is yes. All the above is what we're doing. We see a long runway in the First Aid business. We're -- the vast majority of what we sell are people that are do-it-yourself. There's -- as you think about, there's 16 million businesses in North America, there is a significant opportunity to sell our First Aid cabinet services, but our other services as well, whether they be AEDs, wash stations, those types of items that really have value to customers. And that health, safety, compliance tailwind, we don't see that changing.

People are investing in their organizations, and we see that as a tailwind for many years to come and the market is really, really big. So that's where we're -- we love the growth that we're seeing in that business, and we're continuing to invest appropriately to make sure that it continues.
