Todd Kelsey
Plexus Corp. (PLXS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, David.

Yes. So, David, we’re seeing a couple of different factors in semi-cap. One is we’re seeing what I would call a modest improvement in end markets. And I would say it’s the first time in probably five or six quarters that we saw forecast come up just a bit. We’re also taking advantage of share gains within that market space. So again, if you look back to 2023 – to fiscal 2023, we were down in the low-double-digits on a market that was down 20% to 25% so far outperformed the market.

And as we think about 2024, and if we start to see some reasonable improvement, which right now we’re just predicting a modest improvement or projecting a modest improvement. If we see a substantial improvement, we’d expect to well outgrow the market and again, keeping in mind that our CAGR in that space was 30% from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2022. So in taking it back, you asked about components freeing up. Wasn’t necessarily a factor in the semi-cap space? It is a little bit more of a factor with aerospace and defense.

Yes, we think it really continues throughout 2024. So we expect to have an impact from Q2 to Q4 of 2024. So not so much in Q1. But we are starting to see some modest improvements in lagging edge semiconductors as well.

Thank you, David.

I would say there’s a lot of mutual commitment to driving down inventory right now.

Okay. Thanks Melissa.

Yes. It’s across the markets, Chris, and they’re up kind of across the board, these larger opportunities. And I would say it’s a little bit of a both. It’s a bit of a sign of the market and the views of OEMs in that market. But it also has to do with our go-to-market strategy and the way our teams are approaching the markets and opportunities that are out there. So I suspect we’ll continue to increase those numbers of larger opportunities. And we typically think of something greater than $20 million as a larger opportunity. But I think we'll continue to see that increase over time.

Yes. So there's a number of factors that are going on with healthcare life sciences as we look into fiscal 2024. And I'd start with the fact that we're coming off of two outstanding growth years of 18% and 20% in 2022 and 2023. So there is a strong or I would call it a difficult comparison that the sector is going up against. But then there's a number of factors that are turning 2024 into a little bit of a challenging year from a growth standpoint. One is, I talked about the reduction of procurement of parts at above market prices to more normalized levels. That was most pronounced in the Healthcare/Life Sciences marketplace in the tune of north of $100 million. So you think about that as impacting the revenue comparison right off the top. There's also factors going on with inventory corrections with certain customers who maybe got a bit ahead of what their demand was. And that's a near-term issue that's happening right now.

There's a bit of softening that's going on with certain end markets like imaging, for instance, we're seeing a bit of softening. And then finally, the program ramps that Steve referred to. So when you combine all those together, there's a bit of a headwind within that sector. Now one thing I want to do, though, is highlight the strong opportunities within the other sector. So within aerospace and defense and industrial market, which includes semi-cap, we're expecting very strong double-digit growth in both of those in fiscal 2024.

All right. Thank you, Felicia. Well, I thought in closing, I would spend just a bit of time talking about our fiscal 2024 outlook and how we see that playing out. And I guess, I would start by saying it looks much the same as we thought 90 days ago. So we expected we'd be in a bit of a revenue through where over Q3 and Q4 of fiscal 2023 into Q1 of 2024, playing out as we expected, but then driving into strong growth in Q2, Q3 and Q4 of fiscal 2024 as we saw stabilization in markets, acceleration of new program ramps, some lessening of supply chain constraints. So that's still playing out. And I'd also note that in spite of the strong margin performance of 2023, we believe we can continue to expand margins as revenue increases and we gain better leverage with maybe the only caveat being our fiscal Q2, where we have the seasonal headwinds due to compensation adjustments and such, which come into play.

So everything is looking on track for us for fiscal 2024 based on what we thought a quarter ago. And we continue to progress the way we expect, and that's what gives us confidence we can exit the year around the 5.5% operating margin range and drive towards this $5 billion in revenue at 5.5% in our 25%. So lots of confidence as we look forward.

Then in closing, I just want to thank everybody again for joining our call. We appreciate the interest in Plexus and all of your support. Have a nice day.
