Tom McCormick
Primoris Services Corporation (PRIM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, we’ve got to close out a couple of negotiations that we’re getting close on right now on some new rate adjustments in a couple of our larger MSAs that we’re in the midst of doing that now. So we said last quarter that we were starting to realize benefits [ph] that some of the MSA rate changes that we’d been able to negotiate previously and expected that to go into 2024. Those are the ones that are out in front of us right now.

I think in the past that the revenue is on a percentage basis for power deliveries probably been 10% to 20% of their total revenue. We want to grow that to about 30%-40%. We have about $90 million in backlog right now probably have another $50 million to $60 million that’s pending on contracts that we’re working in collaboration with our renewables group on, so that’s just from that group and then independently with some – other clients there’s a number of opportunities. Not necessarily larger projects, but in the $15 million to $120 million range, which is a niche kind of what we’re fitting in. So we’re seeing plenty of opportunities there, and we’ve seen some of the performance there looking really good at the moment.

Thanks.

And remember, now that’s all organic. There’s no M&A in that at all.

The communications I expected to perform well, and get back to their historic numbers. That was one specific project, although it’s not behind them, it’s holding its own. And I think we got all the costs capture in the forecast. The power delivery group, I expect to see their margins improve, not get to where we expect them to do, reach later in the year into 2025, but they should get to more of a high-single-digit margin. So, their performance should improve as the year continues.

Well, I’ll answer your first question. I’ll let, Ken, speak to the second one. The answer is, we have not seen any slowdown, we actually were booked for 2024. Looking to have booked a number of projects for 2025, we have another portfolio of projects that we’re looking at with our specific clients, our portfolio of clients, to replace projects if they do have any issues, but we’re not seeing any as of now going into this year. And I wouldn’t expect that we would maybe in 2025, depending on who wins the election, but I don’t really expect that to have any impact either.

If the right prospect presents itself, yes, but we’re being very careful about what we look at. We’re seeing a number of opportunities. We haven’t seen anything yet that I would call a unicorn. We’re definitely looking, and if the wide opportunity presents itself, we’ll definitely go after it. But it’s going to be probably more of a tuck-in smaller ones than anything large. But again, that could change depending on how that market changes.

Yeah, in power delivery, but not across the segment as much, the entire segment. That would be specifically for power delivery.

And we’re seeing opportunities there to grow that revenue.

Yes.

I would expect and it’s going to be about 2- to 3-year process. I really expect us to be up to traditional margin levels in that segment by the end of 2025. So it’s something we’ll get – we’re going to see improvement this year and, again, what we wanted to do is size the business appropriately and then grow from strength and improve the profitability. It doesn’t extend across all the business lines either. It’s specifically a lot of its towards within power delivery. But we expect to see that we’re saving improvements now and we’ll expect to see that through the end of this year. They won’t get – by the end of 2024, exactly where we want them that occur more in 2025.

And you got to keep bear in mind their first quarter with respect to Utilities is typically their slowest quarter. Clients coming back after the holidays, getting their business plans out, getting work released. And then you have those limitations that you get with inclement winter weather.

In 2023, it was a little over $1.3 billion.

I think it’s toward the bottom end of that range. I think when we were talking 20% to 40%, we were talking over the course of the next couple of years. So going into 2024, we’re expecting about 20% growth, which will take us from that $1.3 billion and change range to almost $1.7 billion that I mentioned.

Thank you, operator. I want to again congratulate all of our employees that made 2023 a great year for safety, as well as both operational and financial performance. I’m proud of the men and women of Primoris in their 2023 achievements. And I’m looking forward to being a part of what we will accomplish in 2024. Thank you to those who joined us today. We appreciate your time and interest in Primoris.

We hope that many of you would join us in New York at our upcoming Analyst and Investor Day on Wednesday, April 3. Look forward to introducing you to more of our leadership team and excited to update you on our strategic priorities and financial objectives that we aim to achieve over the next few years. We believe the best days for Primoris lay ahead of us. Have a good day.