Tom Leighton
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (AKAM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, I'll take the first question. Yeah, Gecko is not packaging. Gecko is a new capability where we're going to be offering full-stack compute in 100 cities by the end of the year, and ultimately in hundreds of cities. We're actually taking full-stack compute, the kinds of services you get in Linode or a hyperscaler, and making that available in our edge pops. Now today, the edge pops, we have 4,000, and they run function as a service. We'll spin up JavaScript apps in 4,000 locations in over 700 cities in milliseconds based on user demand, but that's not full-stack compute.

Now we're going to be taking virtual machines and containers and supporting those in our Edge platform, and that enables our customers to get much better performance and scalability, also lower cost because of the financial benefits we get from our edge platform. So it really becomes, I think, a very compelling cloud computing offering that just doesn't exist in the marketplace today. It's not a packaging thing at all. This is a new capability, and of course, ultimately, after we get the support for VMs and containers, we want to make it work just as we do function as a service, so that we'll be spinning up containers and VMs on demand where and when they're needed, and that capability doesn't exist today in the market. Ed, you want to take the CDN question, the acquisition?

Maybe just to click down one level into Fatima's earlier question on the CDN side, and something that Tom said as well in his prepared remarks, is there any way to understand how much on the CDN side of the base you plan to essentially -- I don't want to say give away for free, but give away for free to get that compute revenue or help us understand kind of the dynamic between what we should expect between CDN and compute kind of dollar shifting. Thanks, guys.

Yes. I think you can't factor in any percentage there at this point. We have been in some discussions with some very large media companies where we would offer discounted or free delivery in return for a significant portion of the compute business. On balance, that would be a great trade for us, much more profitable and much more revenue, because at the end of the day, big media companies will spend 10x on compute what they'll spend on delivery and even security. This is something that we see the hyperscalers do. They will sometimes give away the delivery in return for getting the compute business, because that's where the vast majority of the revenue is and very profitable. We'll keep you advised as we go if that starts to make a material difference.

Yes, I'll take this one, Tom. You broke up a little bit there, Keith, but I think I got the genesis of the question. So yes, we've done, I thought, a great job of making some acquisitions over the last few years, investing in a compute business, spending an awful lot to build out our compute facilities, adding a lot of functionality, growing our security business, doing acquisitions there as well. And got back to 30% margin last year and continuing this year. We've always said that's been a pretty healthy spot to run the business. We're investing because we see opportunity for growth and there's always a balance. You can't cut your way to greatness. Perhaps we could cut a few more points, but then what are we leaving on the table? I think we've been pretty disciplined and balanced with our approach in terms of investing for growth and returning to margin. We've got some pretty exciting areas. We're seeing great growth in API security. It's still early days there. The product will continue to get better. We've seen good ARPUs there, so I'm very excited about what we're doing there. We've made investments in go-to-market and Guardicore, and that certainly has paid off. And the investments in Computer Stein has shown some early returns. So again, it's a balanced approach. We're in this for the long-term, and I think we don't want to shoot ourselves in the foot and not go after some of these big opportunities that we have in front of us.

Thank you.

Yes. So, signing on compute customers is a big focus for us this year. We have the basic infrastructure in place. Of course, now we're building out Gecko. But just with the basic infrastructure already in 25 cities, we'll be looking to add on many more mission-critical apps from major enterprises. And some examples, you look at social media, live transcoding. We now have two giant companies using that on the platform, one for live sports broadcasting, another for live user-generated content. Another customer, we're hosting e-commerce sites for them in a way that performs better because closer to the end-user and less expensive. AI inferencing for ad targeting, personalizing content. And again, you want to do that really fast. And you just don't have time to backhaul that up into a centralized location. You want to be in a lot of locations around the world to get better performance. And again, we can do it at a lower cost. We've even got a large, one of the world's largest banks now using us, our edge compute, to register credit cards, their user credit cards with Apple Pay because Apple Pay requires you do the registration in 60 milliseconds. And the only way they can get that done fast is to do it on Akamai Connected Cloud.

So really, a lot of different applications already on the platform, doing proofs of concept now. So the focus this year, and I think it's a good pipeline, is to be taking on many more mission-critical apps for major enterprises. And of course, we're the first big one. We've got enormous applications already running on the platform and very successfully. And we do it in a multi-cloud way. And as I talked about earlier, now we have the global load balancing built in, the failover capability, so that it does make for a reliable service that's high-performing. So really excited about what's coming this year.

Yes. In Web App Firewall, we've been the market leader there, for 10 years since we started that marketplace with Web App Firewall as a service. And after 10 years, you do get, competition. But we're still the market leader by a good margin. And that's a good growth business for us. We've added a lot of capabilities on top, bot management and more recently, account protector, client side protection so that customers of commerce sites can stay safe by going to the site. You need going to need that now for compliance. There's a brand protector. So that's identifying the phishing sites and keeping them from stealing, user information. Of course, we've been doing, denial of service protection for a long, long time now. Market leadership position there. And then you have on the enterprise side, of course, Guardicore we talked about doing very well. And I'm really excited about API security. I think over the longer term, that becomes as big a marketplace and just as important as Web App Firewall has become. And our goal there is to become the market leader. And already in the go-to-market motion, there's a strong synergy between Web App Firewall and API security. We built a very easy way to do a proof-of-concept for our Web App Firewall customers. And that's where we're getting a lot of early traction. Also, we've integrated with a lot of the load balancers and other firewalls out there so that we can sign on new customers who are, not using my CDN or Web App Firewall. So I think, there's a variety of areas in security that are working very well for us.

Yes, compute is an enormous marketplace and growing rapidly, and there's always new applications that are being created, and not just migrating from a data center into the cloud, but just brand new applications. So that's where we're seeing a lot of traction. Also, in some cases, lift and shift out of a data center or out of a hyperscaler. But it's just an enormous marketplace and a great place for us to operate. And even those that are optimizing, that's sort of, I guess, not such a great thing for the hyperscalers, but we're part of that trend. It's great for us, because we can help customers reduce cloud spend. And we've gotten very good feedback from our early adopters of Akamai Connected Cloud that they're saving a lot of money. So the trend to optimization is a positive thing for Akamai.

Great. So let me start with edge inferencing. And so some of the examples I gave, that's exactly what's happening for commerce sites in figuring out in real time what content you're actually going to give to the user that's coming to the site. Ad targeting, what ad do they get? Anything that involves personalization. On the security side, a ton of inferencing is used to analyze real-time data.

For example, even our own bot management solution. Is that entity that's coming to the site, is it a bot or is it a human? And even if it's a human and they have the right credentials, is it the right human? And you use AI and inferencing for that, and you've got to do it really fast. You can't afford to send it back to the centralized data center because you've got a massive number of people that you've got to process in real time, especially if you're doing some kind of live event. And so being at the edge matters, because you can be scalable, you can handle it locally, you get great performance, you can make it be real time. And Akamai's unique value proposition with Gecko is that we're going to be able to now support this, not in a few cities, but in a hundred cities by the end of this year.

So anything you can put in a VM, virtual machine, which is most things, you're going to be able to do that in a hundred cities. And then ultimately in hundreds of cities, because we can put this in general Akamai Edge pods. And then next will be containers, which is pretty much the rest of what you do in cloud computing. And then to be able to spin it all up automatically. It's a whole new concept for compute that I think is very powerful, and there's a high overlap of wanting to do that with inferencing engines, where you're trying to do something intelligent based on that end user or that end entity that's interacting with the application.

Now, in terms of Gecko, we're just now in the early stages of getting it deployed. We're in nine cities, we'll get the 10th new city up in another month or so. By the end of the year, we'll be in a total of a hundred cities supporting compute. So not a lot of revenue is factored into the guidance based on Gecko for this year. That would come more next year. So this year's revenue guidance is based on the original 25 core compute regions that we've set up by the end of last year.

Now we will deploy this, of course, just as fast as we can and as customers want to adopt it. And hopefully we have the situation where we want to build out more, get more compute capacity because there's so much demand for compute on Akamai. Ed, do you have any color you want to add around the guidance there?

All right. So I'll take the first one. With Gecko, that is generally speaking an existing Akamai Edge pops. And in particular, they tend to be the larger ones where we already have a lot of equipment. It's already connected into our backbone. And what we'd be doing is adding additional servers. And for compute, it would be a beefier server and additional COLO for those servers. But all the other infrastructure is generally already there. And it's already connected in and we already have delivery and security operating there. So it does become a very efficient way for us to deploy Gecko. And Ed, you want to take the second one there?

Yes. Great question. So what we're doing now is, as I mentioned in the last question, deploying more hardware in existing edge region and generally the larger edge regions. We already have network there. We already have delivery security located there. So there's some additional color and servers. And yes, the goal is to put it all on one common software stack.

Now initially, we have the Linode stack is moving into these edge pops for Gecko. But as we once we get the support for virtual machines and containers, then next, we want to add the software stack that we have for delivery and for security and for function as a service that automatically, for example, spins up JavaScript apps and milliseconds based on end-user demand, we want all of that to be operating on containers and VMs. So that you don't have to think ahead of time about how many VMs do you want in each of these hundreds of cities? It just happens based on end user demand. You automatically get new ones spun up, load balancing, fail over, really a very compelling concept. And that doesn't exist in the cloud marketplace today. That is the vision -- I think you really nailed it when you talked about the common software stack because only Akamai has that full edge platform today, that software stack around delivery and security that will be now including compute.

Yes. So I think one platform really in terms of being able to do everything together and all the same software so that we have our Edge software running with the Linode software to spin up VMs and containers that's not until 2025. We are, first, combining the infrastructure and of course, customers can buy the services as a package. We have common reporting now in many cases. But in terms of doing all the automatic spinning up and truly serverless used for VMs and containers, think 2025 for that. And let's see. So -- and what was the other question you had?

Yes, that's a great question. They don't support VMs or containers at all, never mind serverless or anything else, just -- they don't have support for that. They don't do this full stack cloud computing.

Ed, do you want to go with the first one, and I'll take the second one?

Okay. Yes, in terms of the question around inferencing and AI and so forth, yes, we're building full stack compute to have great performance at a lower price point and have that available in hundreds of cities. And one of the many things that you would do with that is AI inferencing and that's not an afterthought. In fact, we've been using AI in our products for, well, 10 years, bot management, for example, runs on Akamai connected cloud. It's one of many things that run on it.

So not an afterthought. There is an enormous amount of buzz now about AI. And I think a lot of that is justified. And I think there's a lot more compute going to be consumed because of AI. And it is a strong use case among our customers that are using Akamai connected cloud. That said, it's not all AI. In fact, our biggest customers are doing media workflow, doing live transcoding. And that's not using AI. So I think AI is an important use case, one of several use cases.

Now in particular, you asked 2024 versus 2025 it's being done already on our platforms. There's no need to wait until the end of the year unless you want to do it in 100 cities, then that comes at the end of the year. No need to wait to 2025 when the instances are spun up automatically instead of by design ahead of time the way compute works today.

So you talked about GPUs. Akamai has GPUs deployed, we're deploying more. We've used them in the past for graphics. And going forward, probably use them for Gen AI uses. We're not really deploying them right now in the edge pops. And that's not -- it just because you don't need to. It's not cost-effective. And the edge pops, you're going to be doing the inferencing. And for the inferencing, you can use GPUs, but we're also using CPUs. And right now, we get a better ROI on the CPUs. So I guess there's a lot of confusion there as well. Now GPUs are critical for doing training for especially large language models and that's going to be done in the core and we're not supporting that as a key use case today.

We could, in theory, right, we have all the technology to do it, but that's not where we're focused in terms of getting the best ROI for our platform. And for that matter, most of the work with these models, most of the compute is done when you're using them for the inferencing. You do the training, and then you spend -- just so it learns you get it ready to go, and then you operate it. And it's the operation where most the vast majority of the cycles are and that can be done on CPUs. And in many cases, the cases I mentioned, for a personalization for security, for data analytics, that's done on the edge more as good reason to be done there using CPU-based hardware.

Yes, that's very helpful because it makes it much more scalable. You have failover, so much more reliable. And I think it's the basic capability, of course, we've had forever, it seems in delivery of security, and now that's available for compute. So I think that's important and that greatly increases the market we can go after for compute.

And operator, we have time for one last question.

Yes. So I'll just -- let me address that part first. So I would say if you look at the underlying components of what's growing, it's actually that enterprise compute opportunity that's growing very, very, very fast, like those numbers, the percentages would be kind of foolish to break out because they're going off of small numbers and adding to them very big numbers.

Now also part of our strategy is to be competitive and have big core centers in many cities, and that does require a larger build out. So there's a lot of capacity that we have to sell. And then also, we're seeing demand in certain cities, you have to build out more capacity where you're getting demand. And then the Gecko sites that we're building out, it's not a significant -- I mean it's a decent amount of capital. But I think that is another big key differentiator for us. And as Tom mentioned, we think there's a big opportunity there.

So I know a lot of people have been questioning us being able to take on large workloads, etcetera. We clearly have a lot of capacity out there. As I talked about earlier, we've made the change with our compensation plans where our reps now have to sell compute. So we're going to see a lot more of that. We've done a tremendous amount with the platform in terms of adding functionality. We built out the platform, connected it to our backbone, and we have a lot of new compute partners. The platform is ready to be sold so we're pretty optimistic about it. And I think we're building in a pretty responsible manner. As I talked about, our CapEx is relatively modest for this business right now. So I think we're in pretty good shape.

And with that, that will end today's call. I want to thank everyone for joining, and have a great evening.
