Tom Gayner
Markel Group Inc. (MKL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Mark, it’s Tom. Better

No.

Let’s get better and then we will talk about it.

And let me jump in. This is Tom. And Mark, and this is really for everybody. I want to make sure we’re not driving by looking at the hood ornament. And we keep our eyes on the horizon a bit here. So obviously, we’re talking a lot about the insurance results. This is a Markel Group conference call. It’s Martel Group that is – what you own shares in the book value per share, which, again, is dinged by amortization, and it’s dinged by the unrealized losses in the bond portfolio, both of which I would argue were not real. It was up 17% last year. It’s up 11% over the last 5 years. And the actions that I think if our roles were reversed and you were managing this business, where you would be directing capital when we have directed capital towards investments that show the fruits of that. We have directed capital towards ventures, which show the fruits of that. We have paired and pruned inside the insurance engine. And I think you will see the fruits of that in the fullness of time. And we are dividing that pie by fewer shares. So, that’s – remain somewhat aware of the horizon as well as the hood ornament.

I would guess, since the deal activity last year was zero, the odds have been more than that are pretty good. Our phone is starting to ring. I mean there have been some disruptions in financial markets from time-to-time. The fact that interest rates exist, changes the financing market for other folks out there. So, we are getting more inbound phone calls than we did any time in the last 12 months or 18 months.

And let me jump in here. This is Tom. I want to make one factual statement about that. Nobody’s incentive compensation was tied to the 10, nobody, not mine, not Jeremy, it’s not anybody in the organization. Every bit of incentive compensation is tied to profitability over time rather than growth without profitability. So, I know there has been some heartburn in the investment community about that. We hear you, but I do want to – at least state the fact that no incentive compensation was designed to do the 10.

Thank you.

Drew, I appreciate the question, and I do think that speaks to one of the underlying strengths of Markel. And again, everybody is here working hard and fashion [ph] of teeth going on about some stuff. Economically, it was a pretty good year for Markel for exactly the reasons you speak of. Every incremental dollar is invested with the thought of, where will it best be treated, where will we get the highest return. So, we look at insurance, we look at investments. We look at Markel Ventures, and we start with a blank sheet of paper that would – and we also look at our own shares and say, where will that capital be treated best. And that’s consistently been the case, and we will continue to be that way.

Appreciate it.

Thank you very much. We appreciate your support. We look forward to checking in with you in 90 days. Be well.