Tom Jorden
Coterra Energy Inc. (CTRA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Nitin. I’ll probably disappoint with my answer because it’s pretty simple. I’ll say up front, I know a lot of people think of the Anadarko in a lot of ways and I’d like them to keep thinking that way, because we think the Anadarko is a tremendous basin with great opportunity.

One of the things that was a challenge for Anadarko team was just showing repeatability. I’ve talked at length about capital allocation being a function of return on capital and repeatability in addition to how much windage do you have in the price file and our team showed great repeatability on some outstanding projects in 2023.

And so the increased allocation is really a function of letting them just continue their activity level. Had we done anything other than that, we would have throttled back or pulled the plug on their continuing activity. The returns are outstanding. I’ll just say that. And so, we’re reallocating a little under $300 million between the Permian and Anadarko, and that’s just it was challenging because we have great returns everywhere.

I’ll also say that one of the things that we see in the Anadarko coming forward is we have some peers that are also moving forward with increased activity and so we expect a larger outside operated call on our capital in the Anadarko. And some of that is embedded in that allocation. So really, it’s a problem that we’d love to have and we’re very pleased with our allocation decision.

Hey, Nitin. Thank you for that. Our criteria is very simple. When we look at potential combinations, we ask ourselves, would we rather own a share of Coterra or a share of the combined reformulated company? And there are, of course, a lot of elements to that.

But first and foremost, it must create value for our owners. And look, I think, The Wall Street Journal should have a weekend breaking story that says, Flash, everybody looking at everybody else in the M&P space, because that’s what we have.

So there haven’t been any opportunities that we really have browbeat ourselves on that have come and gone. We remain deeply curious about what consolidation could offer for Coterra owners. But the bar is very, very high. I’ll just leave it at that.

Kali, this is Tom. We’ve been debating that internally. I can’t give you a firm number, but I will say that, we look really carefully at receive price and I know we talk about weighted average sales price, but we really look at the price received by the next molecule, which is really a function of what would be a basis price, less are fixed costs.

I would say we would really like to see a price close to or above $3, I think, before it would really meet a criteria that shifts a lot of capital. But it’s also a function of the oil-to-gas ratio. And we’d really like to see a sustained ratio that’s somewhere in the neighborhood of 20 to 1 oil-to-gas and we’re really optimistic we’re going to see that when the market recessed with LNG exports. But that’s kind of what we’re looking for.

Well, geology is complex across our portfolio, and if you don’t have to catch myself or I’ll spend the rest of the call talking about geology. But what’s most important is that, we’ve tested this section, we’ve got a lot of calibration and we understand the stratigraphic variation, we understand the oil gas complex ratio variation, we understand the pressure and drilling challenges. So I think we’re highly calibrated. So, look, complex geology is a bigger issue at the early phases of development than when you’ve got that calibration and we feel really confident that we understand the geological overprint.

Our thoughts really haven’t changed. As we were -- I would just repeat what we’ve said in the past. We’ve talked about a reduced inventory in the lower Marcellus. I think, if we were heavy on the lower Marcellus, we’d probably be talking about a three-year to five-year inventory at this point, three-year to six-year maybe, depending on our level of activity. Our inventory is longer than that now as we’ve lowered our investment.

But it’s really a function of what’s available to us and that’s the function of our gathering system where we think we have additional capacity. But there’s also an area of this field that’s opened up to us that we’re out exploiting and we’re really glad to be there and getting after some of the really, really productive rock.

So, we’ll be drilling in the lower Marcellus for a long, long time. So when we quote inventory numbers, it’s really strongly overprint by which formation we’re drilling in. But the lower is going to be a significant part of our program for a number of years.

We don’t project future advancements in advance of having achieved them. I think we will achieve them, but we don’t -- we like to calibrate results. I mean, hopefully that’s not a surprise to anybody on this call. We’d much rather talk about results than promises.

And I just want to say one more time, we don’t manage our multiyear outlook by that production number. We look at projections of what we think is our assumed cash flow. We say how much of that cash flow do we want to invest and that’s typically in a fair way. I’m going to give a wide one of 40% to 70%, and that allows us to achieve our shareholder returns that we’ve promised.

And then with that, we say, okay, here’s the capital, where’s the best place to put it and the very last part of that process is what production does it generate. We don’t get over our skis on that. We try to push our teams to model the most recent operational efficiencies and then we drive them crazy trying to get better. But production is not the input, it’s the output of good, solid capital allocation.

Yeah. It would not be fair to assume anything from our projection other than it’s our current look at an uncertain future. We say that we have contingency plans. If gas prices really recover, as we hope they will, within our capital guide, we have plans to get back to work this year and set ourselves up for nice growth over the next two years. That’s not a plan, but it’s on the shelf ready to go.

But I don’t want that point to be lost. One of the reasons we have such flexibility in our capital allocation is because we’ve worked really hard over the last couple of years to have a great set of vendor partners and a very light amount of long-term commitments. So we really do have a lot of flexibility in both our drilling and completion services to pivot from one basin to another.

Yeah. The answer, Kevin, is no, we’re not assuming a similar level of allocation. That said, it’s a fluid, but the model that underpins that is a reallocated number.

Well, you’ve left a very nice wide opening for me with that question, because I say, it’s always our best look at current conditions. So if we had significant recovery in the gas macro, which we hope and expect, our cash flow goes way up, and within that investment fairway of, I said, 40% to 70%, we probably would have the flexibility to look at increasing our capital. But none of that is enshrined in our current outlook, because we don’t, I’d say, there is not -- there’s no hope in any of the outlooks around here, but we’ll react when conditions change.

We don’t bake in any incremental efficiency gains. So we take all our most recent gains in our program. We kind of stress test those by going through them extensively to make sure they’re real and part of our program and then we build them into our forecasting. And so while our expectation is our teams will continue to drive efficiencies, none of that’s built into these projections.

Good morning.

Well, one of the things that we see is we will finish the year with four pads waiting to be completed. So, a lot of what we’re doing in 2024 is setting up 2025. So, it’s not always showing up in the first year CapEx. With projects that have cycle times like ours and like everybody else’s, you really have to have a multiyear outlook on any plan. So a lot of that is a benefit of what we did last year that’s currently being completed and what happens next year is a function of what we do this year. So the annual snapshot on capital versus production is interesting, but fairly incomplete.

Well, we have lots of price assumptions. I would say we have strip. We run a 55-275. We run a 75-250. I mean, we have -- we run 75-375 [ph]. I’m looking at our models now. I mean, we have a smorgasbord of price files that really set our kind of define the fairway of our economic analysis. But I would say this is probably based on the strip as a foundational forecast and then we run permutations from there.

Well, thank you very much for joining us. We look forward to continuing to deliver. As I hope you’ve learned from Coterra, we really appreciate your interest and love talking about results and intend to deliver them. So thank you so much.