Tom Hill
VMC CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Good morning, Trey.

Trey, I mean, we saw a fundamental change in our markets in 2022. We realized in March of 2022 that we had a runaway inflation and so we took the lead in 2022 and pulled mid-year prices forward to May 1st that year in every market. And then followed that up with we pooled all the 2023 price increases to January 1 where some of it been April 1.
So I think today the fundamentals for pricing is very, very good and I think embedded in those fundamentals are three clear changes that we are seeing in our markets. One, there is more discipline in announced price increases; two, our aggregates price increases are now January not April 1; and third, our mid-year price increase conversations are expected in all markets.

So we are in a really good place in pricing – probably a good place as we’ve been historically and you couple that with the tools and disciplines of Vulcan way of selling I think our future looks very good.

Thanks, Stanley. You saw the cost in the fourth quarter was up 7% and that's down from what we've been seeing is low-double-digit in prior quarters. I think it was like the third quarter where it start to come down. So what we're seeing is the impact of inflation started to dampen. As we said, we thought we'd see this year in mid-single-digit range.

That said, I would expect this to go this way that cost is going to be highest year-over-year in Q1 and then tail off as we march through the year. That's due to two reasons. One easing inflationary pressures, but two you're starting to see improving operating efficiencies from the Vulcan Way of Operation. So you couple that together, I think we're starting to catch up on the kind of runaway costs we've seen for a couple of years and I think we'll see improvement as we go through the year.
Thank you.

Yeah, I'll take the mid-year first. Well, there's not much in there for mid-year price increases. Now we will or have announced mid-year price increases and should start those conversations in April. So I'm not saying there's no - it's not in the plan, but we'll have – we’ll, for sure have the conversations or very [Indiscernible] ups in the plan. On volume, as we talked about in November, we're predicting a modest decline in demand for ‘24. We see strength on the public side and kind of a mix bag of strengths and weaknesses on the private side and I'll go through those.

Highways, steady growth wins the race and we will continue to see that ramp up and we feel good about it. Lots of funding there and start to be put to work. Non-highway infrastructure will see solid growth. And non-res, most sectors I think will be challenged than the traditional non-res warehouses distribution. And as we talked about that's partially offset in our footprint with the large industrial projects and I think we have some 10 of those and we can we talk about that later. But they're meaningful. While single-family, what we saw was challenged in ‘23, it'll be a strength for us in ‘24. It's back in the growth mode and recovering rapidly.

At the same time I think multifamily, as everybody knows will be challenged. So, as we said we call volumes flat to negative 4 now, January February where as everybody knows where both are either a freeze out or washout or both. So, we're seeing a slow start. That being said it's still on January, February. So, I think we feel very good about the full year guidance. So, probably a modest decline in volumes for ’24. That said we should still see healthy double-digit earnings growth.

Yeah, sure. Anthony the balance sheet is really well positioned to fund all of our capital allocation priorities in 2024, particularly M&A growth. As we mentioned, we ended the year with over $900 million of cash and net leverage of one and a half times. So, we'll think about capital allocation in 2024, very consistently as we have in the past that there is a very attractive M&A pipeline and that's what we're focused on in terms of being able to deploy the capacity that we have and I’ll let Tom, do you want to make any more comments on those pipelines?

Sure. Well, I think if I have to go back and look at it, ours is a three pronged strategy to growth and it's very effective and has provided us with double-digit revenues and EBITDA for the last three years and will again in 2024. Those three are number one, organic growth in what we are selling what we are operating which you see us do. And, we've been very consistent we were able to grow unit margins for consistently for five years. Second is as you talked about is M&A. I think M&A while it was pretty quiet in ‘23 with a lot of unknowns out there. I think you'll be very busy in 2024. And we expect us to bring some deals to the finish line. And then I would supplementing that M&A is Greenfield growth, which is picking up that we have a handful of those projects beginning this year. It will take a little bit of time to get through that and we'll get a little closer to it. We'll talk about some of those, but I feel really good about growth strategy and M&A I think would be a much bigger part of it in ‘24 than what we saw in ‘23.

Thank you.

Hey, Jerry.

Well, I think what you're seeing is as I said early two things you are moderating inflationary pressures of the comparisons get a lot easier and I think we'll continue to see that. But also if you look at our operating parameters and you remember we put the automation and the insights of the technology including the top-100 plants over last year, you start to see those things go to work which helps us with throughput and throughput of critical sizes.
So, I think that as we march through 2024, I think our costs should improve sequentially as we go through the quarter now, we will whether it can have a hiccup on that or one two big outages can have a hit on that. But it’s overall, I would expect our cost to continue to improve over the next four, five quarters.
Good morning, Phil.

Well, as I said, I think we're in a very, very good place from a pricing perspective based on the fundamentals that we're seeing and also the Vulcan Way of Selling those tools help us dramatically and did work. I think that we went we went early as we have and I think that will continue to January 1 which helps obviously helps. We think we were appropriate on our January 1 prices. We announced mid-years in a few markets already. I think over the next probably the next beginning - end of the quarter we will probably announce it mid years for the other markets, and obviously you spend April, May and June having those conversations, so that you're ready for July/August for mid-year price increase. So I think that what those - the fact that it's all in January and the fact that everybody expects to have conversations about mid-year price increases, I think is very important for our markets.

I feel good about pricing.

You bet.

No, I think I think the pricing will be pretty consistent through the year in that 10 to 12 range. I don’t see a big changes in that. Now you also got is - in the third quarter you got to see what happens with mid years. And we'll have that conversation after we get past July 1. I’ll give you a lot more clarity because we’ll just have a clear picture of it. And every market is going to be different that in their ways are. But I would call it pretty consistent low-double-digit pricing throughout the year.

I will tell you that my philosophy is all demand growth are good things I don’t see it where it comes from I like it. But the pricing between public and private, there's really not a big difference there. I think that the one thing I would call out, the good thing about public demand is it's very visible and it's for sure. I mean, on the private side people could hold projects or delay them, but you know public growth is going to go to work. It's not a matter if it to twin and so that visibility to growing demand on the public side is really good for pricing. But a ton of concrete rock for public or private is probably the same number. The difference is the public people know it's there. They know it’s coming and they can take a risk on value and price.

I would look at the M&A is more traditional bolt-on I think would show which is very much in our footprint. So it has highest returns and deal sizes everything from small and mid-range. Maybe a little better - big some a little bigger than mid-range, but I think that as far as the timing is concerned I think ‘23 was abnormally, I guess, quiet and it was because there was so much insecurity about what we're going to fall off the cliff is there going to be a recession and so when you have all those unknowns, people tend to slow down both buyers and sellers and I think the fact you got that behind you, you'll see some catch up in 2024.

Well, I think, if you look at our assets, we look at our business as collection of assets. And if there were something more to someone besides us and it's not strategic then, we got be another owner and we will take that money and put it back in the aggregates business. And so, this is no different than what you've seen us do. And we exit businesses at times and we exit different product lines at times. And so, this will make sense strategically for us to sell the Texas Ready mix business.

Hey Keith.

Yeah, I think the asphalt performance in a 13% gross margin was a really good performance. Now, if you look back about three years ago, everybody was to ask me why I don't you sell that asphalt business and now everybody wants to buy more. So, that's just the asphalt business, but 13-ish percent is a good number. So it's performing well. We see flat at very high levels for 2024 and I would call that hot mix prices offsetting increasing liquid cost and increasing aggregate cost.

So Asphalt is in a very good place and we like our story there. And I think that those teams are performing well. Ready mix, I'd call it virtually flat with the private side challenge - some challenged markets do know that affects the ready mix business, but it's not a bad performance based on some of the private challenge we had. But remember ready mix is 2% of EBITDA. So, I think under the circumstances both businesses do advance.

Thank you.

Yeah, I think what you're seeing there is the Vulcan Way of Operating inefficiencies in those plants. And that's embedded in that is technology. It is training which is so important from a safety side but also from a plant availability and inspection of equipment. And then our throughputs – you are seeing our throughputs of crooks sizes start to improve. So it's a combination of easing inflationary pressures, comps kind of level out, but also those operating efficiencies are really, really important to making sure that we our job is to beat inflation, not just live with it.

Got it. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yeah, I think, they're still challenged but there you go because they got so much money. It's a lot for them to digest but they are growing into it. And as I said, we'll see solid growth in highways in ‘24. We saw low-single-digits in ’23. We’d expect mid-single-digit in ‘24 kind of as expected. But also we got to remember that IJ passed in November of ’21. So we're just past that two year mark and while I say it takes two years. As we've said, it will be a ramp up not a step change in this. I think it will be a ramp up over time and I think that the DOTs are growing into their capital – added resources and the revenues continue to be healthy. There is a lot of money out there, but I would – what I would see here I think is kind of slow and steady wins the race and we'll see improving growth in ‘24 kind of mid-single-digit. I think that will go up in ’25. Again I think that demand will go from ‘26 and I was thinking to go from ’27. So, that slow and steady improvement in public isn't bad particularly when you're compounding unit margins like we are.

As far as CALTRANS, I think they'll be fine. There's always some rumblings numerous times in CALTRANS and funding and people try to grab it. But remember, it is firewall. It has to be used for infrastructure.

Thank you.

I'll take that one, first and then I’ll let Mary Andrews take the ready mix. I think it’s been fairly weak for us. Obviously opposite has been weak, but last year the right size was pretty weak. So kind of more of the same on that still challenged by interest rates. And Mike, I would tell you that my view of that is that the more traditional ex office building, more traditional like non-residential construction usually follows creation of subdivisions. And so we're back in growth mode, subdivision. So I would expect us some time, maybe ‘25 middle of ‘25 that starts to impact that sector of the light risk. So it probably has a brighter future than what we've seen in ‘23 and ’24. But it was kind of when I try to describe ‘24 is more of the same for ‘23.

Thank you.

Thank you for your time this morning. We appreciate your interest in Vulcan Materials Company. We look forward to talk to you throughout the quarter. Please keep yourselves and your family safe. Thank you.