Thomas McInerney 
Genworth Financial(GNW) CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

So Ryan, great question, and it's the latter. So we assume the savings will be in that range, $1 billion to $1.5 billion. But we're just rolling out the network. We've had some matches probably about 30 so far since we're just starting. So as we get more information on how many are using the quality network versus another provider and how big the discounts are. Our goals are to be the discounts between 10% and 20%. So far, we're able to achieve discounts at the higher end of that range.

So as we gain more experience at some point, we'll view it as statistically significant. And at that point, you'll see us assume that, and that would reduce the amount of premium increases that we need in the future by that amount. So to your question, it's what we project, but we haven't factored it into and assumed in our projections value of it, yes.

Well, yes, great question. So it's about a long-term effort and I mean we're very pleased with the results of adding $28 billion to the economics of the business. We think by the end of 2026, that will be largely breakeven self-sustainability. And at that point, I would say, in most states, so let's say, 35, 40 states will be done with premium increases.

As we've said before, over the quarters, Ryan, as you know, there are a number of states who are well below average. I do think in those states, even beyond 2026. We'll continue to pursue rate increases until we get those states to the average of all the states.

Yes. Another great question, and there's a lot embedded in that. I would say that we've now paid 360,000 claims and $26 billion value of claims. And if you look at that one slide, it shows the claims we've actually paid in the last so many years. And every year, we look at the new claims get added to the total claims. And based on those, we determine whether there are any of our long-term assumptions that need be changed.

So my view is we're getting near the end. I think if you look at that, there's another slide that shows what the net present value total that we're looking to achieve to get to that breakeven is $33.3 billion, and we've achieved $28 billion to date that 33.3 could go up potentially could go down over time.

And so I think while there likely are some assumptions that will based on new claims, we might change. I think based on 10 or 11 years of looking at it, I think we're getting near the end. So I don't think there's a lot left. The other way we sort of look at things. We think we're 85% of the way to being at breakeven or sustainability.
I agree with that. Good point. Is there anything you want to add?

We did not but Jamala or Jerome, if we have that number, if you want to give it. Chris, we have not provided that number, but it's north of 400%, and it's gone up throughout the course of 2023. We've had particularly good results on the variable annuity block given the equity market conditions. So it's north of 400%.

Chris, I want to add one thing. All of our statutory filings will be coming soon. So you will be able to access and see the metrics and specific detail.

Yes. Look, I would say we don't always agree with the rating agencies. I think GLIAC is a very strong company. I think any RBC ratio, really above 350 as usually deemed to be strong investment grade. But I think, Christopher, the rating agencies, so A.M. Best and probably S&P and Moody's because we've said that we're not going to put any more shareholder capital into the life companies, and that's all three that they're a closed system, they operate on their own. And therefore, we're relying on premium rate increases. I think the rating agencies have based a rating on that and so we're disappointed. We think they should be higher, but that's where they are. That's a good question.

Thanks, Arthur. I'll start out and then turn it over to Jerome, our CFO, to give you more details. But we negotiated in 2023, a very good adjustment to the bond offering, so prior to a consent from bondholders, we couldn't really repurchase the 2066, which have traded well below par in the last several years. So we agreed with them in exchange for repurchasing some of the 34s going forward for every dollar of 2034 debt that we repurchased, we can buy $2 of the 2066 debt and because both are traded below par, but particularly the 2066, we have been opportunistically repurchasing debt.

Our priority is still to focus more on repurchasing shares because that's a better economic return for our stakeholders, shareholders, in particular, but we'll continue to do opportunistic debt. So we did a reasonable amount in '23. And Jerome, I'll ask Jerome to give you the specific numbers. But going forward, I think you can expect repurchases sort of in that range going forward. But Jerome, do you want to give an update on the specifics?
Thanks, Arthur. Thanks for your questions. So Jenni, back to you, I think it looks like that's all the questions we have, but if you can confirm that, and then I'll just wrap up.

Thank you very much, Jenni, and thanks to everybody on the call. Thanks to Ryan, Christopher and Arthur for your great questions. I think they are very good ones, and hopefully, we gave you good responses.

But in closing, just to sum up, we're very pleased with Enact's strong performance. We're very pleased with the move forward we've made with our MYRAP getting to $28 billion of net present value achieved. We're pleased with the progress in CareScout, particularly with building the quality care network, up now to 125 providers that are credentialed, have been approved for quality and we're bending the cost curve by negotiating discounts. And no other LTC insurers have ever really tried to do that. So we're the first one. The health insurers have had a lot of success at that over time. So we're pleased with that.

As I said, we hope by the end of the year to have 600 providers that are credentialed in our network. And if we get to that level, we'll have 2/3rds of our policyholders and 2/3rds of across the country of 65-year-olds covered by a quality care network provider or home care provider in their ZIP code.

And then, finally, we'll continue to focus on share repurchases. As we said to Arthur opportunistically, we'll look to buy back a little bit of debt. But we've added value, hopefully, shareholders are pleased with the improvement in our share price over the last couple of years, and we look to continue to do that. And in the end, through CareScout, our goal is to long-term increase value by expanding our long-term care services and insurance business through CareScout and helping many more families navigate the very challenging aging journey that they face with confidence.

So thank you, all, all of the investors and others for your interest in support of Genworth and your investment in our company, and we'll see you next quarter.
And with that, Jenni will end the call.