Tom Reeg
Caesars Entertainment, Inc. (CZR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think a key piece is the pricing of the actual event, Joe, the lowest end ticket was pricey by any definition as you looked at it. Last year, we’re working with F1 and I’d expect there is a – there will be more approachable participation at not the very highest end of the market. That’s going to be helpful for properties that maybe didn’t get to participate as much this year. We at Caesars certainly, and I know my discussions with MGM and Wynn, everybody is aware that if only a few buildings in the market benefit from this, it’s not going to be a super long-term event.

As I said, this was basically a full sprint to get the race in position. What F1 accomplished in terms of building the paddock in the time that they did was just extraordinary. And now we all get to look at what went well, what didn’t go well, and that’s a piece of what we think we can improve going forward. And I’d expect it to be even better in 2024.

Joe, our OpEx growth is going to be mid-single digits in terms of largely the lift from labor expenses. We believe that in our portfolio, revenues will largely keep pace with that. So we would expect to see margins in the same zip code as we go through 2024.

No. Carlo, that we're never standing still, Sean McBurney, Anthony and their team have lists of items that we're working on, both from a revenue and expense standpoint that are accretive both from an EBITDA and margin standpoint. So we just don't stand and take a shot to the ribs and hope it works out. We're working to, frankly, improve our margins from here. We're really not thinking about degradation in margins. And we understand that the cost of the new union contract are a headwind there, but we are comfortable that we should be a grower in absolute EBITDA and on a similar footing in terms of margins in 2024.

Yes, we expect to do both.

We continue to want to use our free cash flow to reduce our debt as we get to the inflection point in our capital cycle. At that point, we'll look at where we are from a leverage standpoint, where the stock price is. I can tell you that if it has a forehandle, I would expect that we would be a buyer of our stock at that point.

Yes. I'd say, when you – in the brief periods, when you could get a clear look without weather impact, the regional business remains firm. We feel good about where we’re headed. Obviously, we’ve got – we only had about six months of Danville last year. We’ll have a full year this year. You can see the revenue numbers that that property is doing. And if you look at kind of the, let’s say, April to December period from last year, regional revenue was really nothing to write home about. So I don’t think you’ve got a particularly difficult comp in regionals generally for the bulk of 2024 and we feel good about what we can deliver.

Yes. I mean, we’re $4 billion now with digital doing de minimis EBITDA. By 2025 we’d expect to be in the neighborhood of $0.5 billion of digital EBITDA. We expect some growth from brick and mortar. We’ve got about $2 billion between interest expense and lease expense today that should be coming down both because of rate and because of reduction in leverage and maintenance capital is about $400 million a year.

Yes. David, as we've discussed, in terms of asset sales, everything's for sale every day in a public company, but we're not anticipating doing anything actively on our end.

Yes. Barry, as you know, that's a pretty dramatic transformation of that property. If you recall, when it was first opened, there were restrictions on what you could offer protections in place for both F&B and hotel in the city.

So the current Hotel at Harrah's is across the street. You have to go either across the street or go below through a tunnel to get to the property. The food and beverage offerings were fairly pedestrian and a little bit limited.

And so this transforms into Caesars New Orleans. There's a Caesars Hotel Tower that drops directly into the middle of the casino floor. The casino floor is entirely redone.

As you – if you were to go there today, we've got about a third of the casino floor that's under construction at a time and it's rolling for the next six months or so. It's a stark difference in terms of what the new casino looks like versus the old. Basically an entirely new property.

We've got restaurant product from Emeralds that's already open. Have we announced the others? Yes. So we've got Nobu coming. And keep in mind, Four Seasons has a brand-new property across the street.

Windsor Court is across the street. Lowe's is across the street. So you've got a lot of the convention hotels in New Orleans are directly adjacent to our property and will feed into the venue and these F&B outlets.

It should be a home run for us. So we're expecting that this property will be among our largest regional properties once we're complete. And that would be $200 million a year neighborhood of EBITDA.

Sorry to hit on Super Bowl. The Super Bowl is in New Orleans in next February, which is very well timed for us in terms of launching the product. New Orleans as a city has been slower to come back from a group standpoint than other convention cities. We would expect the Super Bowl will be a catalyst for that as well.

Nothing that's on the front burner. We're constantly approached with, would you do this? Would you do that? We're pretty focused on the projects that we have underway and are really looking forward to kind of a break in the capital intensity – CapEx cycle that we've seen since we closed the merger, and we're focusing on driving free cash flow for the next year or two.

Yes. I would say the size of the market has consistently exceeded our expectations. Growth in mature markets that have had OSB for a while or iGaming continue to grow at steady clips. I would say legalization has been – there has been no real surprises there in terms of jurisdictions that did or didn’t legalize our performance in iCasino since we launched Caesars Palace Online, we had pretty aggressive expectations and they’ve exceeded those and it continues to accelerate. Obviously, I didn’t foresee the Penn/ESPN transaction which allowed us to terminate an agreement that wasn’t profitable for us. So those are kind of big picture what’s changed since we first started this.

Yes. The biggest impact that we saw last year was in Tunica, the property that opened closer to Memphis in Arkansas. We’ve lapped that. So we don’t expect to see continued – obviously you’re continuing to compete with them, but we’re fairly steady state now and can build back. Chicago had quite a few additions in the last 12 months. There’s more to come. You got the Forge Creek [ph] property in the south suburbs, but we’ve managed that pretty well in terms of exposure. You had the Spectacle property in Gary moving to the highway. We’ve lapped that as well in Hammond that impacted Hammond. And then Nebraska we have the Lincoln properties online. The Omaha properties are expected to come online toward the end of this year. So there's still impact in the Council Bluffs market to come. But from, in terms of what we've been referencing, the bulk of that we've lapped at this point.

That's fair.

No, those rooms are back online. We're building a bridge that connects that tower to the old Horseshoe to Paris, but that shouldn't have any disruption.

No, is the short answer. I'd look at what Michigan just reported. I think our peers were 3 to 4x our promo to handle. I'd expect that to look similar in North Carolina.

I would for the second question the outcome of the Oakland A's [ph] situation doesn't impact what we'll be pursuing at all. What we're doing this year in addition to finishing the Versailles connector, is work at Flamingo in terms of improving the strip frontage. There's a number of outlets that are subpar and substandard in terms of what they generate relative to other similarly positioned spaces on the Strip. These are not huge dollar numbers, but they should help transform that property.

Should be very high ROI, but you should be thinking about in Vegas, capital projects are $10 million $20 million, $25 million for a couple of things that we're doing in a building, not $100 million like Versailles.

Yes, I would say nothing particularly informative. The period post reopening after COVID was about as chaotic from an employment turnover standpoint as we've seen. That stabilized kind of in 2023, and it's been stable for a little while now. So it feels more like pre-pandemic in that area than it had immediately post opening.

No. Obviously, VICI has that option that expires at the end of 2024. They've indicated an intention to exercise it, and there's regulatory process that they need to go through. And – you should not expect us to exercise our option, but we do anticipate that they'd like to exercise theirs.

Yes, that's been a big lift for us in iGaming. That table dominant player that we had is typically 100 to 150 basis points lower in hold than the slot dominant player that we find in Caesars Palace Online. So that's helped us in our momentum as well.

Thanks, everybody for your time, and we'll see you next quarter.