Tom Taylor
Floor & Decor Holdings, Inc. (FND) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I would say the only thing I'd add is that, I think we're being a little bit more conservative than we were last year in our approach in existing home sales. So we're still expecting them to get a little bit better by the time we ended the year as an evidence and Bryan Langley's prepared comments. But I think last year we were more optimistic that the interest rates were coming and it would be better. And we're not anticipating that as much this year.

No, we always had -- I'll take a stab at that. We always had in our plans that there would be three different store sizes, and we already operate today. We have stores that operate under all of those sizes today. So it was always in our assumption that in some of the single markets that we have single store markets we operate in stores could tend to be smaller. And then there's places where you can only fit a small store. So we prefer the bigger ones. But if we're going into intercity place is sometimes it's harder to get, so smaller stores have always been in that assumption of 500 stores.

So I'll take a stab Bryan you can fill in after the end. I said on previous calls that I felt like existing home sales would have to turn positive year-over-year. And I think when they do that for a sustained amount of time that that gives us a much better shot of posting positive same-store sales growth. So when they turn positive there's a bit of like it doesn't come instantaneously customers, but there's within a three-month window we feel like that those comps could turn positive.

I would say the only thing I'd add -- I agree with everything you said. I think the only thing I'd add is we've also because we've stayed on track with our strategy and continue to open stores during a really difficult market that we've got a batch of new stores that should give us a really nice lift that they as the market recovers because they started off slow we should get an incremental lift from those stores.

So, I will take that question. 2025 is a long ways away. So, were not quite prepared to talk about our store opening plans then. But I would just say that it's going to depend on a lot will depend on the macro environment and where existing home sales are falling.

And if we're seeing an increase year-over-year in existing home sales, we remain confident in opening our stores as long as the return on investment continues to look like it has historically. So, we'll watch how this year goes.

Today was an encouraging sign with the existing home sales in the release. It was encouraging. We hope that that continues. And as we get to the middle part of the year. We will have plenty of time to look at our store count as we get to the middle part of this year and we'll know more then.

And the final comment on new store openings is all of this nothing changes our view that there'll be that we can have 500 stores. So it's just a question of timing.

So I'll take some of that and maybe Ersan can jump in at the end. So yes, we -- as we've guided, we believe that we can continue to see benefits in gross margin, some of that will come from continued decreased supply chain costs which burn in over time. Our merchants have also done an outstanding job of negotiating costs. It's a tough market right now. So the vendors want to sell product and our merchants are very good at asking for price and they're doing a good job to get it. And as we've diversified outside of China and found new countries of origin, we've been able to do that at a better gross margin rate.

So between that, and then the last thing I would say is that the consumer is still leaning towards better and best products in our store were blend at a higher margin, and our designers are impacting more and more of our sales, which end up impacting our margin. All of that turns into we think the margin rates can continue to go down without having to take price. So, we feel good about that. We do invest back into price. As Ersan mentioned, we've piloted multiple areas of the store. We've taken price down to see what happens with the unit movement and when we have conclusive results where it works we continue to do that and we'll continue to focus on that.

Yes. The only thing I'd add is that in a single store market, the smaller stores will be less Bryan. But if the smaller stores is in a normal sized market then the volumes very close to what a normal store would be.

Okay. So that brings us to the end of the call. I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today. I do have I want to take a minute. It's a bitter sweet day at Floor & Decor. We have one of our long-term executives, our Executive Vice President of Strategic Business Development and Supply Chain, Brian Robbins has and we announced this a while back that Bryan is going to move on to the next chapter of his professional life and personal life.

And Brian's been here for 13 years or almost – it feels like 13 years not quite but Brian has been here he joined right after I did. He's built up an incredible supply chain function at Floor & Decor built an incredible team. He's led our real estate team in development over the last few years and he was behind our first acquisition that has turned out to be a huge success for us.

So Brian is a friend and Brian is going to always be part of the Floor & Decor family but we wanted to take a minute and wish him well. So Brian, we wish you well. I know you'll miss these but we're appreciative of all your contributions to the company. I'd like to thank all the associates who listening to the call. Thank all the analysts for your interest in our business. We look forward to updating you on the second quarter call – on the first quarter call. Thank you.