Tony Sarsam
SpartanNash Company (SPTN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll start Ben with the -- just the headwinds I think you mentioned here a second ago. The overall -- the consumer has been just a wee bit slower to come back into the same units based on the waning inflation a little bit more than our industry expected I'd say broadly as you see in other announcements as well. The consumer is looking for deals. There -- I think you'll see more of those. You'll see them -- more folks trading into more economical price points like our own brands. And so that has continued. It was sort of the theme for most of last year. It's continued throughout the fourth quarter of last year as well. So we think there's we're optimistic about the consumer coming back and getting back to sort of normal and normal stable growth phase but it's been a little bit longer than we expected at this point.

Yeah. As I mentioned here this is Tony, Scott. And I think I mentioned this also the last time we talked we're actively sort of evaluating opportunities in the M&A space. I think we'll you'll see us both actively evaluated as I mentioned also, I think we're looking at a number of options to shore up the overall -- our overall business offering looking for in broadly in the space we play. I think I mentioned this last time there are likely to be more of them in Retail stores. And so we have probably more -- that we're evaluating in that space than in the Wholesale space. But we see that as a really, really important way for us to get our business sort of growing and support our overall mission to deliver the ingredients for better life.

We add those things that actually make the business we currently have stronger. And we see plenty of opportunities out there. So, you'll see that over the course of time as we move through these next couple of years.

We're certainly evaluating both of those options?

Yes. So the Wholesale business, overall, continues to perform well. We had, as mentioned on the call part of the wholesale equation is the Amazon business, which is they are, as I mentioned earlier, they're resetting their expectations and finding a way to get a retail offering that makes sense for them.

And so they pulled back. So that kind of covers the overall volume perspective in our Wholesale. But independents performing kind of roughly the same as our Retail -- our own Retail stores. Our military business is going to be strong. We're going to have a second really good year with military and good growth there. So, overall, our military, our national accounts ex-Amazon and our independent grocers are sort of performing at expectation.

Yes. So a couple of things. So inflation we see inflation continuing to stabilize getting back to kind of normal range of inflation that we may have seen a couple of years back or three years back, I guess. I guess following on a couple, I'll turn it over to Jason for a second here for a little bit more color on that. But the Amazon business just to build on that again, I think, they're -- again, as I mentioned, they're finding their way to the right place in their business. We are supporting them as they kind of design what's going to be best for them and for their consumers. They have continued to rightsize that business and we saw more of that in the fourth quarter as they continue to pull back and figure out what they're going to do next there.

Sure. Yes. We have a pretty active engagement with a number of folks out there. As you know these relationships are often long and sticky. And we believe we have a great offering for -- obviously for our current customer set, but we're seeing good enthusiasm for what we bring to the marketplace. We have great services that we bring to our independent customers. We are refining the types of things that we offer them. And we have great people in the field.

So Amy is just getting started with her role on that and kind of reshaping how we get more aggressive on the things that we can bring to bear. And so far the reception has been very good. So we are very bullish on being able to bring more folks into the fold with again with the service and the fine people we have out there servicing those customers.

Yes. So we had a really good year last year overall on retention. A lot of focus as I mentioned in my earlier comments, the process of putting people first and really focusing on how you get folks engaged in the business and understanding and excited about our goals and the work we've done to sort of recognize and reward those achievements have come a long way.

Our retention rates are better overall. They got much better in the early phases and that's when people are sort of experimenting and trying to learn about their careers. So we see really, really great momentum on overall turnover.

And is that sort of veins and obviously to your second part of your question, we see better performance on overtime as well. So we have -- I think we have better stability, better schedules for folks. And it's a great virtuous cycle, when you get that going in the right direction. So we feel great that we're doing right now on overall on the people front.

All right. Thank you. And before I close, I want to welcome the customers we are hosting today and tomorrow at our Annual Virtual Expo. Attendees for that will participate in educational sessions and auctions.

And notably, our customers will get the opportunity before buy some terrific deals. We see plenty of opportunities for growth in our independent customers in 2024, and look forward to sharing those ideas with them, over the next couple of days.

So I'd just like to say thank you again for your participation in today's call. We appreciate your interest in SpartanNash. And from our family to yours, I'd like to wish all of you a very pleasant good morning.