Tony Xu
DoorDash, Inc. (DASH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Michael, it's Tony. Regarding your question on grocery, I think it really depends on what it is that you're trying to build in terms of for the customer. I mean if you think about it, a customer is going to evaluate across several dimensions. They're going to evaluate what grocers they can order from how good the order quality is in terms of if they order ex items, do they get exactly of those ex items, the affordability of the service and obviously, what happens with customer support, especially if things don't go perfectly.

And so we're always judged on those dimensions, and we're always building initiatives towards that. And a lot of this is still really nascent. If you think about DoorDash's entry into the grocery space, which happened about three years ago, we really started by nailing this top-up use case, where we're solving the middle of the week run and delivering the items that are consumed the most often, your berries, your dairy products, your cereals, your coffee, et cetera. All of that was done in concert with fantastic grocers.

We're now shifting a lot of the work towards solving bigger baskets. And so that is just solving for a different use case for the consumer. And I think we're also going to have to do other things, too, because when I just look at the structure of grocery, most of the behavior for consumers still happens off-line where consumers are purchasing groceries inside physical stores. And so that tells me that we still have -- as an industry, a long ways to go to getting a product good enough such that it can replace the offline experience.

All of this is going to be done in concert with grocers. And again, it's this kind of continuum of where we want to make sure that we can solve for more than just one dimension. Speed is one of those things, but there's going to be other factors that we have to get right as well.

Hey, Deepak, it's Tony. I'll take the first one, which is about investing into international and also into new verticals. So on international, we really are investing across the board with a fairly similar framework, which is really finding product market fit and then finding an efficient way to grow. And in certain markets, it's more about the former. And the majority of markets is more about the latter. But there are markets that are younger in the portfolio.

I mean, I would say, across the board, the penetration levels in terms of our coverage of consumers as well as the merchants that we have remaining to serve is still quite low, certainly lower than where we are in the U.S., but even lower, I would say, to where they can be given the runway that we see.
So it's really about making sure that we're efficient and disciplined in investing across whether we are in search of product market fit and improving that or whether we are scaling that quite nicely, in which case you see both an improvement in growth retention as well as unit economics.

On the new vertical side, I mean, I think this has been just yet another quarter of continued strength. I mean, the growth on a bigger base has accelerated now three quarters in a row. That's really coming from across the board, investments into grocery, the convenience category, DashMarts, retail. So really, we're seeing improvements in growth, retention, unit economics across all major lines within our investment areas.

There's lots of work -- so I don't -- that would probably take much more than the hour to discuss with respect to products that we're working on. But all of them are trying to better the selection that we offer, the quality of the service, the affordability of the service and the customer support levels.

Sure. Bernie, it's Tony. I'll start and feel free to chime in, Ravi. First question is on regulation. I mean, by enlarge, the way we see the landscape is fairly similar to how we've seen it every year in the 10 years that we've been building DoorDash, which is most governments that we work with want to actually work with us and want to work with business. And they understand that in order for something like DoorDash to work, it has to work for all audiences. We're always trying to keep the most affordable prices for consumers. We want to maximize the sales for local businesses, and we want to offer the most number of work opportunities for Dashers.

The vast, vast, vast majority of places that we operate in work this way. I think there are a handful of markets, one of which you called out, New York City, that kind of takes policies to the extreme. And I think has had some adverse impacts against its wishes, which is whenever you see regulation enter the way it does in a place like New York City, what you see is cost rise for the overall system. So there are -- there's less accessibility to consumers, to your point about rising costs. There are lower sales for local businesses, and there are fewer work opportunities for Dashers.

And we largely expect that the vast, vast majority of cities will be fairly central in terms of how they think about working together with companies like ourselves. But there are a handful of markets in which have taken extreme policies. We don't expect that to change much in terms of the financial impact, all of that is reflected in our guidance.
I think your second question was around DashPass. I mean, DashPass had a great year. I mean it was a record year in terms of its membership as well as the order frequency that we saw with DashPass subscribers. This includes Wolt+ as well. In fact, internationally, we actually saw the members for DashPass and Wolt+ double in the quarter. And so we're certainly seeing quite a lot of strength there. I mean the way I think about it is, I mean, there's 100 possible use cases per month for every consumer in terms of the categories and their consumption, whether that's eating or buying in retail.

Even for our best customers and certainly for the average subscriber, we're just a fraction of those use cases. So when I think about the runway, I think it's quite far. And if we can certainly serve every use case for local commerce, I think the subscriber base would be fairly healthy.

Hey, Andrew, I mean, I think you pretty much answered the question yourself, which is -- I mean we're investing in all the dimensions in which a consumer judges us, right? So we're adding selection to the platform. We've launched a lot of awesome retailers over 2023. Even this year, we launched with Ahold most recently here in the U.S. We're certainly helping to improve the affordability of the service, and there's lots of work to do there. We are working on improving the quality of the service. I mean I think the hardest challenge that every grocer faces, whether it's physically or digitally in terms of sales is knowing how much inventory they have on the shelves.

And that is one of the biggest reasons in terms of why sometimes consumers prefer to go and shop inside stores. And customer support is always something that we're trying to get better.

And when I look internationally, I mean, it's similar, but it's across more categories. It's not just new verticals or retail, it's also across the restaurant sector. We're just a lot earlier there in terms of the penetration levels. We have a lot more places we have to launch. We have a lot more restaurants and retailers we have to sign up. We have a lot more work to do in terms of launching our subscription programs in the countries. I mean they've seen great adoption so far, but we're very early in terms of the launch.

And then we always have to make sure that we can make the product better.


Hey, Brian, with respect to all of the barriers to adoption, I think there are a few, but I would start by saying that things in general are going pretty well. I mean we have over 20% of customers ordering in the non-restaurants category for the first time. I mean we're now north of 100,000 plus stores that are outside of restaurants that are on our platform, which we estimate to be the largest in North America. More and more grocers, retailers are coming inbound, and then similarly, more and more consumers are shopping for the first time in the grocery category on DoorDash even ahead of restaurants.

So I think there's a lot of goodness to see. And if you think about what that's centered on, that's really been centered on the fact that we launched with this top of use case, which we effectively had to invent, if you think about it. People knew DoorDash really as a place to get lunch and dinner very quickly. And so we launched this product where you can get your middle of the week run done as fast as possible.

When you run out of eggs or cereal or your berries that usually isn't like the most fulfilling trip to go inside a physical store yourself. But it's also something you want to be done quickly. And so that's something that we've solved pretty well.

At the same time, I think there are a lot of barriers. I mean, if you just pan out and look at the industry, I mean, digital sales or e-commerce penetration of grocery is still amongst the lowest, if not the lowest across all categories of e-commerce.

And I think there's many reasons. First is how do you make sure that you can get exactly what a customer wants delivered to their home. I mean if you look at one of the challenges that grocers have, whether it's through their physical stores or their online channels, it's not knowing how much inventory that they actually carry. There's other barriers around affordability. I think customers largely expect to pay similar to what they pay inside the store when they get something delivered.

And when you look at selection, that's something that we're just working towards. I mean it's happening actually pretty rapidly and consistently where three years ago, when we just launched our service. We were working with maybe a couple of dozen of retailers now that's in the hundreds with hundreds of thousands of stores. So that remains a thing.

And I think the final thing is that it's just going to take a bit of time. I mean, I think most people in the country or in the world know DoorDash and Wolt has a place to get lunch or dinner delivered. I think it takes some time to get everyone to know that you can get your city delivered. We've certainly made a priority bet on grocery. I think it's paid off really well. I mean we see it every day in the numbers in terms of growth, retention as well as improvements in unit economics. But look, it's a long ways to go. I mean, we're three years into it where we went from zero to multibillion, which we're excited about, but I think it's just the beginning.

Hey, James, yeah, I mean I would say that getting supply of grocers onto the platform has not been an issue for us. I mean, it's actually gone really well and really quickly. I mean if you asked me three years ago, do -- would we have thought that we would be north of 100,000 stores in North America from close to zero? I'm not sure. And if you ask me whether or not that we would have over 20% of customers ordering outside of restaurants. I'm not sure. And I think if you asked me, would these things continue to grow as quickly as they have. I'm also not sure.

And I think one of the reasons why it's been fairly straightforward in terms of onboarding these grocers is that they see in DoorDash, the largest local commerce base of users that are shopping with the greatest frequency, which means it's very highly incremental. I mean they've seen that with each grocer that we work with we conduct incrementality tests that continue to show that DoorDash is just adding more and more sales for them and also, frankly, solving new use cases that they had previously saw.
And I think they also see in DoorDash, a partner that they can build with decades or centuries into the future.

Yeah, it's gone really well. I mean, I think the results kind of speak for themselves. I mean, we now acquire more customers than any other platform who shop in the convenience or grocery or alcohol segments than anyone else. I think we cited in Q3 that our grocery business is growing triple digits, which I think when you compare to peers suggest that we're outpacing by many multiples. So I think the numbers kind of speak for themselves.

Hey, Mark, it's Tony. Well, I mean, I think there's a few things here with respect to membership adoption. I think the first is just making sure that members are aware of the savings that they're actually receiving. I think if you think about DoorDash, we have within our own ecosystem, hundreds of millions of customers who've ordered with us. But as you saw, we wrote in our shareholder letter that we have 37 million monthly active customers.

And so there's a pretty large base who I think we have to meet them where they are in terms of their usage behavior and then make them aware of the possible savings that there could be. So I think thing number one -- job number one is really making sure that we can make all customers within the DoorDash and bulk ecosystem to understand the savings that they would be receiving.

I think job number two is always increasing the value that members receive. And so that's something that we're always working towards and we'll add more and more benefits overtime.

Sure. Yeah, your first question, Doug, I believe, was on Dasher supply. I mean it's been the healthiest we've seen. And I think this is something that we called out in the letter, where it really is precisely because of the number one feature that we offer in the DoorDash platform has flexibility that there are such high levels of engagement, right?

I mean we have -- as you said, 7 million plus Dashers who earn over $15 billion in the year, these Dashers on average, only Dash about four hours a week, 90% of them Dash fewer than 10 hours a week. So they -- in the vast majority, north of 80%-plus of them have other full-time work. I mean it really is a complementarity to what they already do. So -- I think that's one of the reasons that you're seeing there.

So satisfaction is high, engagement is at all-time highs, and it's been easier and easier for us to make sure that we can supply the roads. That doesn't mean that we don't have work to do, by the way. I mean we have a lot of work to do in making sure that the friction to use the app a lot easier. Making sure that we can create more earnings opportunities for Dashers. We launched some new payment models for Dashers for the first time in 2023 in a while. So there's a lot of work to both optimize as well as innovate and create new services for Dashers.

On the second question, I think, was on generative AI and the benefits that we've seen. We've been working with a lot of these large language models for probably a couple of years at this point. They certainly do serve some benefits in areas where you see lots of structured information that digests nicely into these LOMs. And which then you can solve. I mean, if you see a lot of work that's been repetitive that it's done manually, for instance, a lot of that can be -- we've seen efficiency gains with generative AI. We're always trying to do our best to play with the newest technologies. But at the same time, I think a lot of times, the question I always ask myself is technology is a tool. We have to make sure we understand the job to be done. And apply their correct tool.

So I think with respect to generative, we have seen efficiencies in many areas. But I think it's something that's going to be explored for many years to come.

Hey, Brad, yeah, on your question on Dash Pass and benefits of whether those benefits can come through partnership or build within. There's -- I mean, a portfolio of bets here, but it really starts within, I think, understanding our own ecosystem. We are fortunate that we have the largest local commerce space of customers in which we can offer these benefits. And I think when you think about the depth of use cases as well as the breadth of use cases. I mean there really isn't any category larger than eating and retail.

And so I think job number one is we have to first make sure we do a great job with what we have. And I think if it makes sense to have certain partnerships, we'll certainly consider those. But I think job number one is just realizing how big of an opportunity we have within our own ecosystem and building the best products for our customers.

Hey. Ken, I can start. This is Tony. And Ravi, feel free to follow. I think on your first question, which is about regulation in the EU and the platform workers directive. Yeah, I mean, it's certainly an ongoing piece of work that regulators are coming up with. And I think the good news here is that they're doing it in partnership with industry and we expect a very productive outcome for everyone.

I think that, by and large, when I made my comment earlier to the -- I think there was an earlier question about regulation. I mean, there really are just a handful of cities across the world. So not just EU or U.S. or other places in which I think governments don't want to work productively with companies. I think the majority of vast, vast, vast majority scenario we've seen is that governments want to work with companies.

I mean, why wouldn't you? I mean, why wouldn't you want to increase the GDP of the local economy and create more work opportunities, more sales for local businesses and more accessibility for consumers. I think that every government recognizes that, that's a positive sum situation for their constituents. And we see that in the EU. We also see that in most parts of the world.

I think your second question was around capital allocation. Maybe I can start and then Ravi, feel free to take the rest. In general, I mean, we're always trying to look to build products for customers. And we think that that's the best way to maximize long-term free cash flow per share. Obviously, to your point, there's two component parts to that. There's the first component in which we're doing our best to grow as fast as possible within a disciplined set of parameters that we set for ourselves. A lot of that isn't just a budget, but also just how we run the business and run different projects against their state of progress, whether they're in search of product market fit, there's a different set of operating metrics that we look at, if they're in a phase of scaling and looking for efficient ways to grow.

There's another set of operating metrics. If they are cash flow generative. There's another set of operating metrics we look at. So I think that's on the former -- on the latter or the denominator, we're always looking to make sure that we do this with discipline. I mean stock-based compensation is certainly is a very real expense. We want to make sure that we're as disciplined as possible with headcount. I'm pleased with the fact that we've been relatively flat on share count over the last six quarters, even though revenue has grown considerably over the same time period.

And look, I think it's also been very healthy for company culture. I mean, DoorDash is a company that's quite scrappy in terms of how well we -- how we like to operate and we'd like to continue operating with the same speed and quality.

Sure. Hey, Mike, I'll start and feel free to add in here, Ravi. So on the first question, which I believe is around partner commissions, we're always trying to maximize the value that we bring every single partner, right? And we're fortunate that we've generated lots of sales on behalf of these merchants, and we've spent over $40 billion of R&D, sales and marketing team spend over the past few years in helping achieve that level of sales, which I think would be very difficult impossible for these merchants to replicate on their own. And I think that's why you see that those churn numbers are low and actually, frankly, they continue to get lower.

So for us, it's making sure that we're always delivering more value to these customers such that will continue to grow together. I think there's a long runway ahead before every physical merchant can truly argue and compete on their own as companies in the digital economy. I think we've done a nice job in our first decade of helping the restaurant category get there. But I think we have a lot more work to do certainly within restaurants, and I think we're just getting started outside of restaurants.
I think your second question was around ads. Yeah, I mean, the ads business has gone really well. I mean I think that it's not something probably we've talked about that much, but it's certainly grown, I think, commensurate to the size of business that we're at.

And for us, again, I think the key operating tenet here is that healthy ads business, we believe, in which it delivers best-in-class industry returns for advertisers as well as -- continues to allow us to have the best consumer experience is one in which we have to have a healthy and growing marketplace. That's what causes or allows the cause for a healthy ads business, not the other way around.

And so for us, it's always making sure that we can achieve on those two dimensions where we have the best-in-class returns for advertisers, which we believe we have as well as the smallest or ideally 0 degradation in the consumer experience, which I'm really proud that the team has accomplished. It's done really well.