Tony Guzzi
EMCOR Group, Inc. (EME) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, the better terms are mainly focused around liquidity in the project, right, cash flow, keep the project moving. And that wouldn't be an issue with us but we negotiate hard for those, because the better the cash flow on the project is typically the projects moving well. Secondarily, the better terms around, okay, if we're going to expand scope with the method for which we're going to expand scope, so we don't get into the change order discussions that are extended and really affect productivity. Some of it's around general conditions, the realization that we want people to have the right general conditions to be able to execute the project well. And finally, I think the better contractual terms around how things convert, whether they go from a fee based contract, GMP to a fixed price and what would be the mechanism to do that? You put all that together, yes, I think the larger the project right now, the more are those terms are favorable both for the owner and for us, because it's a clear eye view of how we're going to work together.

No, that's basically it, coupled with the pace and timing of some of this large work, I mean times money, especially in the data center space. And as a result, you have to be a big sophisticated contractor that has the financial resources to mobilize on the site, being able to assemble a trained workforce with the right training on a job that might have been in planning, we get it, we may have a month and half to mobilize, within four months we're at full production and within nine months, some of these big data center jobs what we do on the -- the guts of it are done. And then if you go to the other side of that, if you're already at a significant semiconductor site or a EV site or even a health care facility, or any manufacturing site, there's a lot of work that has to get done initially to set the utility infrastructure and mobilize and get everybody to say, okay, we're going to be here. But then as they build the other parts of the site, add tooling, other things, you may get that in an award that will build to something almost the same size in chunks that are 15% to 20% of what you ultimately overdo on that scope.

It hasn't been an impediment yet, Brent. We always say that we're always -- with an eye towards that, we've always had good success building it. The impediment actually we’ll find the skilled tradespeople. It's how quickly we can develop foreman, how quickly we develop project managers to move from being someone that was helping on the job or was an assistant foreman to move up to run big work, likewise with project managers. We've also had pretty good success subtracting how we are winning, people like [indiscernible]. And we've also had pretty good success attracting skilled foreman and project managers from other parts of the country when we're building out some of these sites from other companies and also from other industries.

We've always looked at cash flow. If you're earning at net income, it means the business is in pretty good shape, right? And if we're in the construction businesses, Jason, what do you think, 75%?

Op income, that means our project portfolio is usually pretty good and that we don't have a lot of jobs that are eating cash, because they're in some form of dispute or they're delayed or anything. So when you're overperforming like we did this year versus operating, like Mark said, it's because specifically go to the mobilization we had on some of these big sites. We negotiate really hard upfront to make sure that we're not have a big cash drain as we mobilize on these sites, and sometimes that takes a long time to negotiate that. And also sometime we’ll start on that, the one form of contract structure. And then over time, that contract structure will change from a fee based or T&M plus to more of a fixed price flow, because now we know what it costs to put labor on the site. We know the composition of the workforce, we're going to work force for the next three or four, or five years, hopefully. And then we know the owner and the GCs and the engineering firms we're going to work with how they get change orders down, how they get add moved. And so we have great folks on the ground that know this art. It's not a science, it's an art, and they do it really well. And they've a lot of experienced people help them quarterback that. And it's really the power of our corporate segment and subsidiary teams working together to bring that home on a site and to bring the cash flow home.

Which gets you at net income or a little bit above. Does that make sense, Brent?

Well, I think, Adam, with guidance out of $13.5 billion to $14 billion know that not all our revenues and RPOs but we feel pretty strongly that these other trends will continue through the year. As far as RPOs go, there could be fits and starts in the RPOs in some of these segments as work gets let. But we feel really good about Page 12 and the underlying drivers of our business and we think that we will continue to win. And the good news for us is we're balanced across market sectors. So as I talked about on Page 12, the skilled trade because these are complex projects and then when we share knowledge so well across our company on how to build and means and methods that our supervision can deploy that skilled trades on any number of industries once they get going. And that's been the strength of EMCORE over a long period of time and we expect it to continue to be so. So the short answer is -- I give you a shocking thing here, Adam. I think over the last seven, eight years, maybe a couple of mixed use buildings but as far as commercial skyscrapers where we were the core person doing the core building shell and everything else who was with that, not talking tenant fit out on commercial, I think we've built two, Mark, right, in 9 years now. We have one underway right now that's really a delayed project in 2017, and it's going fine. But that's not been the heart of EMCOR's business for a while. We still are big in the tenant fit out place, which where we operate, how we always like to say, we at EMCOR operate and earn in the Class A office space for tenant fit out and retrofits and everything and we occupy Class B and C space because of the nature of what we do. So where we operate we're fine, because that's still buoyant, a lot of movement, we’re reconfiguring and figuring workspaces, new buildings. And then if you go to the other side of that, on the B&C space, quite frankly, it's not a bad time to be looking for space.

No, I don't think…

It's such an integral part of mechanical and how mechanical jobs thought about, and it's such a heart of our shops and everything. It would be hard to break out because it's ingrained in some of the companies and how they operate. That being said, it's an important part of our business. And it has a real success factor with our customers to deliver results on very complicated facilities across the country. Now that has some unique characteristics that make it on a trade delivery standpoint, it has a national union, right? Most trade businesses don't have a national union. Like the rest of the mechanical business, it's gravitated more towards prefab. Like the rest of the mechanical business, you have to have excellence in craft in the field and multidiscipline, they can do multisize pipe and really engineering. So it also has more of a design assist element as the rest of the mechanical business has gravitated towards. So that's why it's so integral to that mechanical business and it really wouldn't make sense to have it look different than the rest of the mechanical business.

We've done a lot of work around it. We think it grows high single digits to mid teens for a while. So yes.

Next 12 months? Good. I mean it's the next 12 months, we have most of it already in RPOs and we know what the work we'll be doing on some of these critical sites. When you think about the delays, actually, that's not bad for us in some cases. We're building the infrastructure around that, they have to staff them. It allows the sites to become much more after the initial build, they start to winnow down to the contractors that are the winners on that site that have done great work for them. On the sites that we are, we emphatically are those contractors.

I don't really have -- we’re contractors, we tend to look at things in three to five year cycles. And as we look at things over the next three to five years, we feel pretty good about that. Again, we can deploy our resources to the best opportunities. Secondarily, I give you a real world case. If someone comes in and the semiconductor market is going to be strong in a market we have our share of work or maybe we're not even playing in the semiconductor market in that market. The rest of the work that happened around, because it usually becomes a buoyant infrastructure that's part of that, whether it’d be warehousing, whether it’d be health care, the area tends to grow. We may do all those jobs and not do the semiconductor work. For us, it's a matter of resource allocation. How better serve the jobs and what the best opportunities are. Data center, I said, again, both and we look really strong for the next three to five years. I would say the data center business is a much more stable business and how they're going to staff it. Because they don't -- think about a data center, they have to get the technology right and a lot of them know how to do that and they're thinking of redesign.

The data center human resource end of it is all on the construction side. The actual operating of the data center requires very few people. So once they get them up and running, it's much easier for them to think about capacity planning. Contrast that with the semiconductor world, you have -- some of them have established work forces in some of these markets. They have a much easier time thinking about expansion and growing. For someone that comes in knew it the first time, they may hire one and half workers to two workers for everyone that's going to stick with them on the production side. The construction side, there's a workforce that knows how to do that work after the first one. The construction folks aren't the issue. We would say that a -- I don't want to say slow down, a more thoughtfully planned next three or four phases on that. Once you get up and running leads to a more orderly construction site, we know how to work together and it goes on. We're all for them taking their time and getting them staffed correctly and becoming successful versus just build, build, build. It’s better for us and our planning, it's better for them also. So bullish on both, data center does not have the human resource issue after the fact that semiconductors does.

Thank you all. We look forward to hearing and working with you all in 2024. And with that, we now put a wrap on 2023.
