Travis Stice
Diamondback Energy, Inc. (FANG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Neal. I mean listen, we wanted to be conservative and how we laid out the inventory counts for both us and them sub 40, I mean I think there's been a lot of aggressive inventory counts put in deals lately. And I think for us to be able to say that combined we have about 12 years of sub 40 breakeven inventory is truly a best-in-class number in North American shale and that's kind of why we put it there. I mean I think generally as with Diamondback's position, there's a lot of inventory that breaks even well above those numbers. I think there's a lot of testing going on throughout the basin. There's probably some zones like the Upper Spraberry that we'd probably call a sub 40 breakeven zone today.

But I don't think they're ready to fully put it in the location count. So I think it's just conservatism. And I think on a relative basis not all locations are created equal and within that combined 6,000 location count, there's some that breakeven below 30, right. I mean it's all about what we're developing today and saving the upside for later. And we know that that upside is going to accrue to us with the size of the acreage position pro forma.

Yes. Well, I mean I think generally Neal; the project size is up, I mean 25 is not an exact number. It's going to be different, different counties where you have different spacing within different zones. We're not -- we don't use a cookie cutter strategy to develop the asset. We use a unique development strategy for each area. I think we've had a lot of experience with practice over the years. I think we've learned and our planning group has gotten significantly better at looking around the corner and seeing what issues might arise.

And certainly, there's a benefit of size and scale, right? If we have one of these 24 projects coming on every quarter, well, there's a lot of risk in that one particular project. But here we have four, five, six of these coming on every quarter. And that allows us operational flexibility to move around and plan our business. And that's just one of the other benefits of size and scale that will only be magnified with the potential with the Endeavor merger.

Thank you.

Thank you, David.

Yes, I can't emphasize that point enough, David that we're not going to be forced sellers of any of our assets. We're going to be very thoughtful as we move forward post close in looking at monetization strategy for these minority interests, particularly relation to debt reduction. So we'll be very thoughtful and do the right thing.

Yes. I mean I think both from our drill bit and from others drill bit, we've seen really good results in the Wolfcamp D. I think it makes sense to put it into the stack today, maybe not in every situation, but in more and more situations. So more Wolfcamp D in the plan, and then in the other bucket, we have more Upper Spraberry in the plan.

So I think generally, if we're able to add these zones to our development plan and see similar productivity per foot, that only extends the inventory duration that we have both on a standalone basis and pro forma with Endeavor. They've been developing a lot more Wolfcamp D than us and we talked a little bit about that last week, but I think it just shows the beneficial nature of the Midland Basin and stack bay that we're adding zones like the Upper Spraberry and the Wolfcamp D that we didn't talk about three, four, five years ago and now becoming core development targets.

Neil, I mean I think we need to protect our side of the ledger through the period between signing and closing, so we can generate free cash that reduces the cash portion of the purchase price. I think we've done that. We've historically bought funds in the kind of $55 WTI range. We now kind of stepped it up to kind of that $60 range. And we'll probably be a little more hedged on our side between sign and close than we have been in the past, closer to -- I don't know, two-thirds, three quarters hedge, so that we can make sure that, that, that cash is there to reduce the cash portion of purchase price.

I think longer-term, it all depends on the strength of the balance sheet and the break-even that we have with our base dividends. We've always kind of tried to buy hedges at kind of 50 to 55. And that protects free cash flow, balance sheet doesn't blow out and the dividends well protected in that extreme downside scenario. So I don't expect us to move to a non-hedging company because we just believe that it's prudent to protect the balance sheet and our base dividend which we see like debt.

I think generally, regardless of oil discipline the gas curves in the Permian Basin always exceed expectations. I think we're always pretty conservative on the gas side. And that almost universally beats expectations, which is why you're seeing on a basin level more growth than we all expect almost on an annual basis. So I think that's going to continue, Neil. We don't -- we could run the gas price at zero in the Permian and still make great returns on oil wells.

For us personally, we try to protect our gas price by through hedging as well as through some pipeline commitments to get our gas to bigger markets as well as protecting our basis exposure. But generally I think the Permian, even if you stay disciplined on oil, eventually you're going to have to move to gassier zones and there's a lot of gas and associated gas left to be produced in the Permian.

Thanks, Neil.

Thanks, Arun.

Good morning, Derrick.

Thank you, Derrick.

Yes, Derrick, good question. I think we expect that we'll see some softening in the service market this year if the gas basins do kind of remain muted in their activity levels. We are not -- we don't set the price of the service market. We're price takers. But we'll certainly continue to push on our end on finding the market prices for all of our service lines where we don't have existing commitments in place.

I think the first question that came up was on the synergies of the $3 billion worth of synergies, most of those underpinned by our existing cost structure, applied to the Endeavor assets. And so those are usually the entry questions. But once we explained that the cost assumptions that we embedded are the same cost assumptions we're currently doing today, a lot of comfort was gained, and then we went to the more kind of strategic questions with the shareholders. So I think probably the cost efficiencies were the first, and then secondarily, were some of the debt retirement strategies that case just went through were probably the two most topical questions that we dealt with.

Thanks, Derrick.

Good morning, Roger.

Roger, I'll just add a comment from a high-level on what Kaes just mentioned. In my experience, as companies get bigger, the more inwardly focused they become. So they focus more on their own results and less on what others are doing around them. And it's been a hallmark of Diamondback since the very beginning. One, you could say, out of necessity when we first started, but it's been a hallmark of ours to really pay attention to what goes on around us. And so right now, it's culturally ingrained not only to rigorously examine our own internal results, but also spend intellectual capital on looking across the barbed wire fence at what others are doing. And as we move into a much larger position post close, I promise you that culture will stay intact. We will continue to look and find what others are doing potentially better than we are and adopt accordingly.

Thanks, Roger.

Hey, Jeoff.

And, Jeoff, since I spoke just a second ago on some of the cultural elements of Diamondback, another cultural element is when we combine assets in our history, we've done a really good job of checking our egos at the door and finding out what's really working. And it's a culture of seeking first to understand as opposed to being understood. And as Kaes just mentioned, when we put the two companies together, we're really excited about understanding what they do, why they do it, and making -- collectively making improvements both on our side and on the incoming asset side.

Thanks, Jeoff.

Good morning, Paul.

Thanks, Leo.

Thanks, John.

Great. Thank you. I really appreciate everyone listening in this morning and asking questions. And if there's any follow-up, just reach out to us and we'll address them then. Thank you. And you all have a great day.