Vincent Pilette
Gen Digital Inc. (GEN) Q3 2024 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Saket.

Yeah, good.

Yeah. And just to bridge first back to your first question at Natalie, I think the two leading indicators we have for this business, that will then flow back into the P&L is the booking growth rate, and Natalie mentioned, our 4%, and then the second one is the customer count growth that we discussed, whether it's indirect or direct. You're right, so we grew sequential or sequentially our direct customer count for the second quarter in a row. We actually achieved a record, right? So, when you take Avast plus NortonLifeLock together at the time of the merger, we are now at a record 38.9 million, and that has been definitely a very strong sign of the quarter.

We did discuss at the ID back in November that we'll drive with discipline. Every one of our channels is managed economically positive over the lifecycle of the customers, right? So, the CLV over CAC by all the channel is very important, and rebalancing our marketing investment across all of the channel, and if we have a bit more momentum in certain, then we're going to capture quickly that presence in that channel. For the last two quarter internationally, emerging market, and maybe closer to the security line, which is identity privacy, has been the traction. We also shared at the time that in developed and emerging country, ARPU is $35 on average in emerging markets. As you move into more developed, it's $70. And then, when you get fully mature, ARPU is $135.

Now, we feel good, because we know we have very strong capability of cross-selling and upselling. And as we continue to mature new channels or enter new channels and mature, then there is space there, we have a chance to expose our customers to a broader protection of their digital lives, and that has been our strategy. So, that's how we're doing it. So, the aggregated metric for total Gen on ARPU, if you want, has to consider that mix and we're looking at the ARPU across all the channels and then driving the cross-sell/upsell in each one of those.

Thank you.

Hey, Hamza.

Good.

Yeah. So, let me address both and they combine, obviously, in the dynamic. Definitely, the ARPU is still growing year-over-year, but it's sequentially down, it's driven by mix. We are not discounting more in each one of the channels. We didn't see any anything outside of the normal business dynamic that we had seen in prior quarters. And to be honest with you, we love all of our channels, and where we see momentum, we're going to allocate some of the marketing dollars. In this case, this quarter was maybe a little more allocated towards lower ARPU channels, but very economically positive in the long term. So, we feel good about that. So that's the entire ARPU dynamic mix shift.

When you talk about retention, we were stable quarter-over-quarter. We're actually improving in key areas, but we are slightly below our plan, and we were doing real-time allocation of our resources. We're also preparing to move now to common platform this year is the big rollout of our new product set and merging the different campaigns, understanding the different things, had to be some trade-offs with the day-to day drive of the activity. So, we did not improve as much as we had in our brand, if you want. But we feel really good, and I think as we continue to progress quarter-on-quarter, now, it may not be exactly linear, but feel very good that we will get to our 80%, Hamza.

So, pricing is very strategic to us, right, and we really are pricing for value. So, we constantly innovate, add new features, and then keep our price constant with markets. And when you say we didn't take price increase, that's not true. We always price for the value we deliver into the market, adding new features. And I think the growth rate you mentioned, cross-sell/upsell, definitely the cross-sell, meaning, adding more to Cyber Safety, or the upsell towards that membership, it's two of our five key levers for growth, right? We also, obviously, want to continue to expand. Very pleased to have new customer coming in in last quarter and this quarter. We want to expand and continue to expand with partners to provide Cyber Safety solutions. And we're looking at the overall, if you want, as a balanced approach, delivering and pricing for them.

Hey, Peter.

Yeah. So, as we reported, Q2, first quarter of sequential growth. As you know, we said we're finishing strongly in September with good momentum outside of the US and international and new emerging markets. That's what at Analyst Day we indicated, kind of the profile of customer by those markets, so we can model them. Obviously, they carried into Q3 at a stronger pace than we anticipated. We told you it would slowdown, we didn't know it was sustainable. We saw it was sustainable and continue to put marketing dollars into those trends. And I think going into Q4, we now have two quarters sequential experience with it, if you want, we plan to continue into Q4. We'll give more indications when we give the annual guidance of '25 in May. Plenty of things can happen between now and then, especially making the progress in retention.

In term of retentions, we -- actually as I mentioned, we made good progress across the brands. So, I see nothing changing from a fundamental progress and you know that we have the aspiration to bring the Avast brands to closer to where the Norton is, and we're making good progress there in term of trading off certain initiatives for platform integrations that were more day-to-day through the quarter as we were preparing for integration.

Definitely. In partner, we have multiple channels, right? So, employee benefit is one of them. We have the telcos, we have some of the retail, we have strategic partners as well, and they all behave slightly differently. They also have a different relationship between your bookings and your revenue compared to the normal DTC business, which is 90% of our business as you know.

In term of the employee benefit channel, we continue to grow the pipeline. We've been growing double digits, maybe we're a bit overoptimistic in term of closing certain of these deals that would then carry immediate impact here during sign-up times, and those will be delayed and carry going into fiscal '25, they're not lost deals, but it takes time to deploy.

We're also deploying into those installed base higher value proposition, which may be started initially as basic identity protection, adding all the way to the full membership structure with ReputationDefender, a new product, and those taking a little bit more time. Each channel may have different ARPU of their employee base is very close to LifeLock, maybe 20%, 25% lower than the average, but very close to it.

Hey, Matt.

Yeah, definitely a few key deals slipped into fiscal year '25, and we did not put them into our Q4 forecast.

Yeah, absolutely. And we have a lot of activities with partner, that's why partner is so strategic. As we embedded into security and security concerns into solutions that the consumer buy, and then directly with the consumer, we have a full set of activities in term of educating, reminding them. It's also part of our customer success journey that we drive directly with all of our customers. Hygiene, as you know, in cyber security is a big component of that. We definitely are using more and more AI as Ondrej mentioned at the ID using AI to combat AI, if you want.

The shift towards a personalized, interactive, intuitive cyber safety companion, if you want, is absolutely essential. We launched Norton Genie as an example of early on what we can do to try to identify some of those fake scams that will become more and more sophisticated. And with that our product will become more and more powerful as it really can scam the entire spectrum of digital threat. So, you will see the evolution of cyber safety for consumer becoming more and more embedded and personalized to you or your behaviors.