Vincent Roche
Analog Devices, Inc. (ADI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. God morning, Ambrish, and thank you for the question. So yes, we noted last quarter that we believe the inventory digestion issue would last two to three quarters. And I’d say, given the new information that we have, our conviction of that has actually grown. We have, through careful analysis and observation, we’ve seen inventory digestion accelerate at our largest direct customers across the board and across all the various segments that we support. And we’re continuing to reduce our channel inventories as well. So I think very encouragingly, even with normalized lead times, as we’ve said, we’re shipping that kind of 95% of customer requests within a quarter, which is very, very normal. We saw against that backdrop, a sharp drop in cancellations, and though the book-to-bill was below unity in the fourth quarter. We did see our bookings improve sequentially. So that gives us a lot of confidence as to what’s going on.

Regarding Automotive, I’m not sure, by the way. The automotive – the assumption you’re making is that there could be a double-digit drop in Automotive. I’m not sure about that because we know that cars are consuming about 10% more silicon per year. And in fact, we continue to grow in share and ASP in the car. So my own sense is that against what could be a very challenging macro backdrop during 2024, that of all the elements of our portfolio, automotive, we expect will fare best of them all. And we still have pretty strong confidence that we’ll grow in 2024.

Yes. Well, I think it’s – Vivek, thank you for the question. It’s one quarter at a time here. What I will say contextually is that we expect the inventory overhang to have been depleted by the start of our third quarter, which is in May of next year. So, we still remain pretty confident about that, given the dynamics that I just outlined. But the other parts of the cycle that we’re really – I think everybody is seeing pressure from is the macroeconomic climate and particularly the decline of semi business in China. So that’s the piece. I mean that is the piece that isn’t well understood. But all that said, the macro will be the governor on what happens in the second half of the year. And I think another quarter or so will give us a lot more confidence in terms of what is possible in the second half. But I will let Jim answer as well give you some particular statistics to underpin our assumptions here.

Yes. Thanks, Joe. So look, I think overall, the pricing of our existing portfolio is very, very resilient, very stable. And I think something to note as well is that every new generation of product that we build is capturing more value. And – so if you look at the legacy, it’s very stable. You look at the legacy franchise. We’ve got tremendous stability. We’re capturing more new value per new socket. And I don’t see any particular change. And we, as a company, play at the high end of the performance curve, which enables us to get this innovation premium that is a very, very critical part of our gross margin structure and our revenue growth.

And our job is to continue to invest to make sure that we stay on the cutting edge and get well rewarded for that. We fight very, very intensely at the inception of new designs. But as I said in the prepared remarks, Joe, we’re seeing generally speaking, our pipeline of new product design wins as well as the more established products continue to grow quarter-by-quarter, year-over-year. So I feel confident that the pricing that we have managed to increase over the last couple of years, 2.5 years that they’re about to reflect the increased cost of goods. We’ll hold those prices. So overall, we’re bullish about where we are and what the pricing environment holds in the future.

Yes. Thanks Chris. So, yes look, we have come off a record year for ADI and for the industrial sector. But I would say in the second half of ‘23, we began to see momentum slow on the order side of things. And in the fourth quarter, it’s true to say that weakness in the industrial sector broadened and hit all the various market segments with one exception, the aerospace and defense area. And I think when we look into 2024, given the weaker macro backdrop, and we expect the inventory digestion to continue through the first half particularly at the broad market customers who are suffering most here. So, I think, as Jim said, when we talk about gross margins, the weaker industrial over the first half of the year, that weaker mix, if you like, will impact the gross margins. And for the trough periods here, we are thinking kind of 68%, 69% as reasonable assumptions for gross margin in that period of time. So, it really is, at this point, it’s an adjustment of inventories at our customers and how fast we experience the recovery will determine on the macro. But again, I think it’s true to say, during the first half of this year, we do expect to get this overhang of inventory behind us and get back to a more normalized growth pattern in the second half of the year. Jim, do you want to take a comment?

I will sort of add some color.

Yes. So, let me – good morning, Tore, let me add a couple of piece of color to what Jim has just said. So, most of ADI’s revenue today is built on process technologies that are 180 nanometers [ph] and above. Now in digital technology terms, that’s a very, very old process technology. That’s more than 25-years-old in terms of its currency. But in the analog space, that is still a very contemporary process node, so more than 70 – a little more than 70% of our revenue today is produced on process technologies at 180 nanometers and above. And as Jim said, we have gone through a major internal expansion to give us more flexibility and agility in terms of where and how we manufacture those process technologies. And we are making all these investments that we have made on the internal fabs of 200-millimeter wafers. So, the tool chains are less expensive, and we are able to get tremendous return on investment over many, many decades on the investments that we are making. So – and I think below that, for the, let’s say, at the final line geometry nodes, we have very, very good alternatives with our external partners who are in a very, very really important piece of how we make the hybrid manufacturing model work. So, anything that is kind of 90 nanometers and below, it’s 300-millimeter wafers, and we secure that production with multiple sources across the globe.

Tim and your question on the days of inventory, I would say our pre-COVID target was 120, we are close to 190 today. I think both of them are going to be wrong when all the dust settles, but we will re-up you on kind of the long-term inventory days model at a future call. And with that…

Good Tim. Thanks everyone for joining us this morning. A copy of the transcript will be available on our website. Thanks for joining the call. I appreciate your interest in ADI and have a great Thanksgiving.