William C. Stone
SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. (SSNC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Dan. Hey, we got a lot of stuff accomplished in the fourth quarter of 2023 and that gives us a lot of confidence going into to ‘24. We kind of said in the remarks about a large insurance company going live on our track system and that's going to drive a lot of revenue. We also completed another large retirement system in 2023 and we've been winning an awful lot of the major hedge fund launches and conversions.

So, we have a lot of stuff that we think are in our pipeline, and we think as that rolls through that we will accelerate throughout the year to increase organic revenue growth.

Well, I think the rollout was as close to flawless of any of the rollouts we've had, which bodes well for word-of-mouth going across the health industry is pretty vibrant and an awful lot of people talk. And so we have great relationships across all kinds of healthcare organizations. And as we said in my earlier remarks that the 15 million claims that we processed in January, were 10% more than we anticipated, which would be a 1.5 million claims.

So, we think there's some embedded growth in there and then we think we're going to add clients throughout the year. And, as we roll out commercial and then Medicaid and then Medicare, it is increasingly going to be imperative on all kinds of claims processors and other healthcare companies to get into new technology, right. You can't run this on spreadsheets and you really can't run this on technologies that are not flexible enough. There's an awful lot of stuff coming out in 2025 on HIPAA and other regulation and I don't think any Inflation Reduction Act and all this stuff.

And, I don't think that 40 year old, 50 year old, 60 year old technology is going to save the day. And I think that the brightest minds that are running these big places are going to come to us and recognize that we can streamline their operations, save them a lot of money and we can make a lot of money in the process.

Well, I think as far as healthcare is concerned, we were measured. And, we think that if anything, we have upside to that. And we think that -- we're so young as a management team, we have a lot of time in order to really execute on our strategy so that we can really reap the benefit.

I would just say that the digital worker initiative at SS&C is a very focused, very managed process and everybody understands that they need to get on board. And then they understand that you don't get on board pretty quick, then you don't have to worry about it. So, we're pretty blunt about those kinds of things and it's been effective for us. And as they embrace it, they kind of go, wow, I should have done this sooner. But those kinds of things are lead the horses to water, right. And I think that's what we've done and we've got a lot of opportunities going forward. The technology keeps getting better. It is capable of more things and as we integrate large language models into the process, it will even get better. So, we're optimistic about where we go from here. And so, we went from I think about 36.8% in the second quarter, and 39.8% in EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter. So, we're looking forward to continue to be able to expand our margins and improve our customer service and satisfy more customers.

Yes, Andrew. I think we need to define the longer term. So, if you look out over the next couple of years, that we probably have opportunities to increase our margins through the digital worker process, 100 basis points to 200 basis points. Now look, we're going to spend money on a lot of things too. So, the margin is not just driven by the Blue Prism deployment. We're spending money on sales. We're spending money on marketing. We're spending money on a lot of R&D initiatives and we are quite focused on defending our IP. And that's not a cheap process, but it's also that's our lifeblood as a company. And we want people to understand that we don't take it with anything except extreme defense and then it becomes extreme offense. We're very focused. We're very protective of our customers and our employees and our communities. And that means that we have to be very protective of our IP.

Yes, Alexei, I think if you go back through our press releases and our client wins and stuff. You'll see that an awful lot of the major macro hedge funds are our clients. And for the last several years, an awful lot of the new funds and the hedge funds went into these macro funds. So, we have a concentration on the largest and most complex funds because what that does is make sure that we have the expertise and technology to really support them as they grow and then also as they expand their geographic and asset selection reaches.

So, that's what we do. So, I think we had a press release just recently on Hudson Bay. That's a $20 billion hedge fund that we just added to our line-up. And we've got a number of those throughout the world and we are marching both in EMEA and Asia Pac as well as North America. And we spend more money at this than anyone else. So, we think that we're spending it wisely and that will continue to increase our win rates.

Yes. And we're quite focused on our taxes and we've been able to keep a constant 26% tax rate for the last five or ten years and we'd like to see if we can have that start sloping downward and that might mean that we do different things than we do now. We might move some more of our people to lower tax states. As our clients have moved to places like Florida and North Carolina, Georgia. We might start following with groups that have specific expertise. We already have a large office in Jacksonville and we have some people down in the Miami area. So, we're optimistic that if we get some focus and have some ideas that we'll be able to hopefully, move our tax rate down.

Well, that's pretty sizable range, Kevin. And I think that we're certainly hoping to beat the low-end. We'd love to beat the high-end. We'd also love to beat the midpoint. So, I don't think that we think that the low end, The 2.8, I think it is the high hurdle, but it's also when you're $5.5 billion in revenue and you want 3% growth and you have about 3% attrition that means you need 6% on $5.5 billion which my early math tells me that it's $330 million worth of sales that we have to do.

So, it's not a walk in the park. We've got a talented sales team, we've got talented implementers, we've got talented developers and we have a talented support organization. So, we're cautiously optimistic that we're going to have a really good 2024.

Well, right now, we're only targeting Earth. So, we're going to try to wherever we can on the planet. And as far as types of organizations that we would acquire, we're very interested in expanding fund administration, if we can buy existing businesses and figure out ways to help current clients, maybe improve their businesses by collaborating with us on a lift out or something along those lines.

Secondly, we like technology. We think that's the steep corner of our business. That's why you hear me get somewhat passionate about protecting our IP. So, I think our key things on this stuff is to find pockets. So, we just had some seminars and some people out in the Far East. We were in McCall, we were in Hong Kong and pitching a bunch of clients and we have a really nice business in Australia. And I think that there's opportunity. We have a pretty nice business in China too. That's somewhat of, the crapshoot is to whether or not it's going to grow really fast or it's going to stop. But I think it's we have a lot of great clients and we think we provide some good services.

So, we think there's opportunity. We think there's a lot of opportunity throughout Europe. We think that we have a number of initiatives that we're executing on and then we're pretty much a pretty big powerhouse here in North America.

Thanks, and thanks, everybody. We appreciate you coming to this call. I know in New York City, it was a little snowy for you and then some of you might have forgotten your galoshes and all that. So, we really appreciate that you came out and we look forward to seeing you sometime in April and talking about where we're going from here.

So, thanks again and we're working hard for you. Thanks.