William Oplinger
Alcoa Corporation (AA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Mike.

Yes. Thanks, Mike. Let me just give you some background and give you some thoughts around San Ciprian and the situation there. If you recall, in February 2023, we agreed to a phase restart of the smelter, which was supposed to begin in 2024 via what's called the viability agreement. And the refinery has been operating at about 50% capacity since the third quarter of 2022 to try to mitigate the losses. The economics for both the smelter and the refinery remain today unfavorable.

Now, we've committed -- we are committed to fully -- fulfilling the spirit of the obligations and the viability agreement. However, the commitments need to result in a viable operation. And due to decline in the markets both metal and the delay in the development of competitive power solution, the time to realize a viable operation has extended out considerably. And so, as you get -- as you alluded to, under these circumstances, it's prudent to look at every action that we can take to stretch the remaining funds available to see if a viable business plan can be assured for the site.

To be clear, the refinery and the smelter have not been funding their operations. They've not been able to fund their operations for many years. And the operational losses and investments have been funded via loans from other Alcoa entities. And there is virtually no ability for San Ciprian to repay those loans. The Alcoa entities will provide no further funding to an operation that is not viable and that's an important point for you and others to know.

So at this point, you're probably wondering about timing of a resolution. The timing is not clear at this point, but we're asking the unions for the -- their understanding of the situation and necessary flexibility to reach the solution. Likewise, we're working with the regional and national governments to identify all potential forms of relief. And we will work collaboratively with all stakeholders on a long-term solution. So, that basically sums up some of the history and where we stand at the site at San Ciprian today.

Thank you, Mike.

Well, we plan to fulfill the viability agreement and part of the viability agreement is that, we restart 32 pots in the first quarter. However, it does not make economic sense to restart those pots. And the more that we -- if we were to restart those pots, they are negative cash flow, and it will just simply consume cash out of the entities quicker than if we were not restarting those spots. So at this point we will be having the discussions with all the parties involved and make sure they understand that starting those pots will consume cash and there is only a limited amount of cash available in the entities and once that cash is gone Alcoa does not plan to put further cash into the entities.

Thank you, Carlos.

Yes. So as we said in the fourth quarter, we're taking the Alumar smelter restart slowly and at a measured pace. We have increased the amount of pots operating too, as of today to approximately 70% of the plant and we're making slow, but good progress on restarting the smelter. So, while I would wish it was faster, we want to do it safely, we want to do it economically and we want to do it in a way that positions the asset for the long term and so we continue to make progress.

The smelter, as you know, obviously is curtailed today. The refinery is at 50% capacity. If we chose to go to a full curtailment, we would have to go through the process of negotiating with the unions on a curtailment. And that may be a consideration. We'll be looking at all options at this point to conserve cash out of that entity.

So I'll take a first cut at that and then Molly can jump in if you want to add anything. Timna, we continue to make progress with our partners and ELYSIS on the process. And we have plans to start a commercial size cell at the Alma smelter in Quebec in 2024. So we are continuing to make progress. However, we are not planning on an implementation in the near term of ELYSIS. We're going to allow for ELYSIS to go through some of the testing process and ensure that we have the right package of engineering. And so at this point, we're not planning on significant investments in an ELYSIS cutover or on ELYSIS plant this part in this decade. So it would be earlier next decade.

Is that a change? It's an R&D project, and we're working through that R&D and ensuring that the process works well. And we'll implement it later in the decade, early next decade.

Well, to give you a little bit of perspective of some of the things that we've had going on, we mentioned the Warrick restart, and so we got half of that done in the fourth quarter. I plan on getting the other half of that done in the first quarter. We've made the announcement around Kwinana. So that will be in 2024. We continue to make progress around Alumar. And so, we have that restart going on. And we have engagement on all the pertinent issues in Spain. And so we have that going on. At this point, Tim, that's a lot to get done. And I think the team has done a great job of initiating all of that. We will consider, as we always do, asset by asset, does it make sense to start, stop all those options. And we make it on a fairly real-time basis. And where we have spot power exposure, we make those decisions on a real-time basis. So we're always considering some of those portfolio options, specifically around high-cost facilities like Lista.

Thanks.

Thanks, John.

So John, to give you a little bit of background, it is not unusual for us to be in the market to buy alumina. In past years, I think in 2023, we probably did about 2 million metric tons. As you see with the curtailment of Kwinana, that's increasing to about 3 million metric tons. We have an alumina trading arm, and I don't want to make that sound as if we're doing any type of prop trading, but we have an alumina trading arm that is constantly sitting there trying to optimize logistics and optimize tons and quality across the system. And where will we get that. We have already agreed with certain suppliers that we will have offtake in 2024. And those suppliers run the gamut of Western World suppliers, Indonesia traders. And as we go through 2024, we'll do more of that.

Thanks for the question, John. So let me just back up a little bit. Matt Reid was chosen to be COO because he's the best person for the job, in my view. And the fact that he sits in Western Australia is a little bit of a benefit, because we do have such a massive operations in Western Australia. To specifically address your question of whether I'll be focused on the smelters and he'll be focused on mining and refining, no. Matt has an agreement for all operations globally. It's a big job. It will be a hard job to do out of Western Australia, and he and I have had that discussion, but I think he's the right person for the job.

And now with that said, he has four regional vice presidents that sit underneath him. And they -- and he used to be one of them, obviously, in Australia, so he has to replace himself. They're very good people, very capable people who have the ability to make decisions in the regions to benefit the regions. And that's important because as we saw in the permitting process, it is critically important to have really strong local leadership in the regions that can make decisions, that make sure that the permitting is done correctly, that the rehab is done correctly that the ESG factors are appropriately considered in the regions. Sometimes it's hard for a global player to have that perspective. That's why you have to have strong leadership in the regions, and Matt will ensure that he has four strong leaders around the world.

Thanks, John.

And Bill, I really have to give kudos to Molly and her team because -- and Jim Dwyer, many of the investors have been asking us, "Hey, there's lots of moving parts here. Can you help us understand what those moving parts look like and how good can things be if you accomplish those moving parts”. And so that's the point of this slide. It basically says, hey, let's -- our view on overall materials is going to be $300 million better. We're actually instituting and we haven't talked much about it on this call, but we're instituting what we're calling a competitiveness program where we're trying to get 5% of the cost structure aside from raw materials and energy out of the cost structure, and it's at every single plant, mine, refinery around the world. So this chart was meant to be a reaction to investors that said, help us understand with all these moving pieces, what can it look like. And that's why we put it together.

I made some comments at the Future Minerals Forum in Saudi Arabia last week, and I'll reiterate those here. Our customers are asking for low-carbon solutions. And we and some of our competitors are developing those low carbon solutions. We have the broadest line of low-carbon solutions of anybody out there between EcoLum, EcoDura, EcoSource, we offer low-carbon solutions today that our customers can take advantage of. We've seen a fairly sizable growth of EcoLum year-over-year, something like a 60% increase in sales in EcoLum.

Are we getting premiums? Small ones, right? And I would like to get a whole lot more premium than what we get. But today, we are getting premiums for EcoLum across the system. And so, our customers want it. We need to be on the forefront, ELYSIS and Australia going into the next decade will provide us significant advantages, but we're starting to see some of the benefits of selling that broad product line today.

Thanks, Bill.

I hate to give you a definitive time, but I can quantify it a little bit for you. There is roughly $240 million of a combination of restricted cash in the entities and credit lines available. The entities lost on a pretax basis, about $150 million in 2023. So we are essentially sitting down with the stakeholders, trying to determine how can we preserve the cash in the entity to give that facility long enough time to come up with a plan to be viable over time.

So there's not any specific at this point, something as far as I'm willing to go out and say when that cash will run out, but it is a situation where there is limited cash available, and we need to figure out how to get that facility viable over time.

So if we were to restart the 32 pots, it just adds to the drain. Now we have a viability agreement that we plan on fulfilling, but if we do that, then it just accelerates the drain of cash. And that's a situation where everybody loses.

Let me take the U.S. question first. Just it's important to note how appreciative we are to the U.S. government for providing the clarity around 45X and the fact that those funds essentially support keeping aluminum, which in our view, is a critical mineral for the United States economy, keeping those assets running.

Warrick, as we've said, we're investing in Warrick to restart the third line. The 45X clearly helps and we have plans to make Warrick even more profitable over time. Now Warrick in the future needs to figure out what its energy source is going to be. Its energy source is still coal-based. And if we're going to meet our greenhouse gas targets, we will have to transition that to a sustainable energy, but that's a problem that we have some time to work on. Massena on the other hand, is a -- it's renewable energy. It's got a great energy source. And now with the 45X support, it's a better facility. So we're pretty pleased with the level of support that we've gotten. We're trying to get further clarity around 45X to include the raw material sources, and that's included in that $90 million benefit that you see, but we'll continue to work on that.

Western Australia.

[Multiple Speakers] You said, Brazil, but we should be accelerating Brazil too, because of external stakeholders, but Western Australia.

Our capital allocation program really is not changing, Lawson. We're going to continue to maintain the strong balance sheet. We're going to make capital expenditures to maintain and improve our portfolio. And then when we have excess cash and no particular order, we'll use it for portfolio actions, preparing for growth and returning cash to shareholders. The dividend is something that we speak carefully to the Board about and they would guide us in any changes there.

And remember, when we set the dividend, we set it at a level that we thought was very affordable through the cycle. It's not a huge dividend. But we said it at a time when our indebtedness -- our overall proportional net debt had gone from $3.8 billion down to $1.1 billion. It's crept up a little bit this year, but we set the dividend at a level that we thought was affordable through the cycle. And so that's the thinking.

Lawson, at this point, I don't want to speculate what happens when and if they were to run out of cash, what the task for us currently is to work with the unions and the government to try to get that to be a viable operation. And that's what we're really focused on. We have a dedicated group of people who are working with the various stakeholders and constituents to make it viable.

Thank you.

Hi, Curt.

Thanks for reinitiating coverage, but you did it [indiscernible] level, just to be clear.

We can, we got a while. So we can dig in.

Let me address the second part of the question or maybe the theme of the question, Lawson, part of the reason why we put the chart together that we've been very focused on here is that, we made $500 million in EBITDA in 2023. Everybody can see that. And at the prices and raw material level in 2023, that's where we ended up. We have line of sight to near-term actions that are going to double that over the next, let's say, two years. And that's not banking on any type of metal market or alumina market improvement. If you then factor in where we were way back in 2022, which was not that long ago on metal prices, you can see the earnings just really accelerate very, very quickly.

So we at Alcoa aren't sitting here hoping for an earnings -- for a market recovery. We're taking action. We're taking the hard actions, quite honestly. Kwinana is not an easy decision. Warrick is an easy decision, but hard to accomplish safely and to do it effectively. Alumar we're improving. We haven't even talked much about WA bauxite permits here. That is something that was a nontrivial task to get accomplished in the fourth quarter. And it's good to have that behind us.

And then on top of that, we're going after $100 million of cost savings, and we're going to have that on a run rate basis by the first quarter of next year. So you can see that we are pulling every lever to take that $500 million to a much higher level and essentially prove your initial thesis incorrect.

So on the permitting, we are going through a Part 4 permitting process in Western Australia. That takes time. And we are saying that we won't be into North Mayara until at least 2027. As far as any potential further restructuring, and I'm going to let Molly answer it from a quantitative perspective, when we talk about our financial [indiscernible] operations, there are still ones in there that we are really challenging to be more cost competitive. Lista, we talked about earlier in this call. Warrick, we have a plan to get there. Portland has been repowered and is currently starting some marginal -- small marginal capacity in a couple of parts at a time, but that adds marginal EBITDA. So that's the actions that we're taking to address those remaining financially troubled operations. Any comment from you on cash restructuring.

Curt, thanks for coming back to following us. Appreciate it.

Thanks, Rocco, for hosting the call for us. And thanks again to all who joined our call. We're excited about our initiatives, as you can hear from our voices, including the work to address key challenges and drive improvements. I think we made a lot of progress over the last 90 days. There's an energy and enthusiasm within the company that's driving toward solving many of these near-term and midterm problems, and we are really going after it. Molly and I look forward to speaking with you next time and until that time, be safe. Thank you.