Ynon Kreiz
Mattel, Inc. (MAT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Eric. Hi. Vehicles continue a very strong performance. It was up 15% in the quarter. 11% for the year, and POS was in line with that. We gained 280 basis points of market share this is a very meaningful increase in our position. Hot Wheels within that grew 16% in the fourth quarter and 13% for the full year. And as we noted on the call, we achieved our sixth consecutive record year. And again, number one in the Vehicle category as a whole.

The growth was driven primarily by Die-Cast vehicles and new innovation, including the RC, for example, the skate segment and new launches of Hot Wheels: Race Off race in the fall. And we've continued to introduce new ways to play and engage with the brand.

We also look to continue to leverage the core Die-Cast vehicle serving both children and adult collectors. There's more content that will come out this year on Netflix. And the success in our Vehicle category in general and Hot Wheels specifically, really goes back to our playbook. And how we're leveraging the strength of the brand, infusing innovation into the product and continue to add more touch points for the consumers.

And there's a movie currently in development with J.J. Abrams, as a producer at Warner Brothers. So we will continue to drive and elevate this incredible franchise, which has so much of a runway and opportunities ahead of it.

Within the Vehicles category, just to say, Matchbox also performed well. Disney Pixar Cars continue to show that it's an evergreen brand under our management with double-digit growth in the fourth quarter. And all in all, we're in a great place and expect to continue to see growth in 2024 and beyond.

Thank you, Linda. Without commenting specifically about any one brand, we believe we have a very strong portfolio. We always evaluate our portfolio to position the company for growth in line with our strategy to create long-term shareholder value. And you, obviously, assume that whatever we announced today has been in play for a while, and these are things that we take our time to consider and analyze.

As it relates to American Girl, it's a valued asset within our portfolio with significant - a significant fan base and a really, really good product. We continue to progress our strategy to optimize the retail footprint and consumer omnichannel experience. We saw improvement in sales trends in the fourth quarter. We opened a new LA flagship store and all three flagship stores achieved same-store sales growth for the year.

We recently announced the American Girl movie partnership with Paramount, and just announced today our latest collaboration with Disney Princess and Frozen. So the brand is very much thriving with a lot of activity. And the moving American Girl to be part of the commercial organization is about helping us leverage our direct-to-consumer capabilities, and drive demand as we did so well with Mattel Creations.

We think the issue - the product is great. We're looking to strengthen the commercial model and believe that with our - within our North America organization, we have very strong capabilities as it relates to the direct to consumer. We are very confident in the long-term value of American Girl and continue to always evaluate our portfolio and position the company for long-term growth.

Thank you, Linda

Yes, Arpine, thank you. We talked about our M&A approach before - consistent with our capital allocation strategy, we are going to - first of all, when it comes to deploying capital, first of all, it's about organic growth and maintaining our investment grade rating with a leverage ratio between 2 times and 2.5 times debt to adjusted EBITDA.

Now with our strong balance sheet and significant cash balance, we have the flexibility to look at more opportunities to grow the business, and this is M&A and share repurchases. As it relates to M&A, the criteria is going to look for opportunities that are strategic, that are accretive, that will help us improve our growth profile and create economic value for our shareholders.

And the terminology we used in the past, the way we said is that we are looking to do things that will be obvious to our investors. We're going to be smart, methodical. We work very hard to put the company on a very strong financial footing as we are today. And we will make sure that we will not change that if we do an M&A or pursue external opportunities for growth.

Thank you.

Yes. Hi, Stephen, the Barbie had a very strong finish for the year with the fourth quarter growing 24% and this was across the brand, toys and the benefits associated with the movie. The movie continue to play very well, was a cultural phenomenon, it lifted the brand. It brought in the audience, and it played well also with adults and especially with collectors.

Within that, the Barbie DreamHouse had an excellent year as well. And Barbie as a whole continued to gain share and perform very strongly. A lot of it was due - was related to the movie. It was the benefit of the movie, but not only. It's just the strength and the cultural resonance of the brand. And we did a lot of work around that, to make sure we capture the moment and build on that.

In 2024, we will be celebrating Barbie's 65th anniversary, with a lot of activations around that and more products that will celebrate the brands past and future. We are looking to leverage the broader audience to launch new products, especially for adult collectors and trying to reach and engage pop culture fans and also reach all the kids and brought in the audience after the movie success.

We also expect to see shelf space expansion in the second half, and more customized product line that we will support with a unique system of play that we will talk more about in our March investor presentation. And separately from that, there will also be content on Netflix that will continue to play - offer the drumbeat of the content engagement with fans around the brand.

Thank you.

Thanks, Drew. Yes, we couldn't be happier with our performance in the Dolls category. And we're going to have a lot more to share with you at our Investor Day. There's a pretty deep analysis, a lot of exciting innovation and we'll break it down by each of our key brands. We do expect - just to give you a bit of a preview, we do expect the category to be down in 2024. But over time, it's a healthy category. It's competitive. It's driven by innovation.

And within that, we expect to continue to gain share with a very strong portfolio of some of the strongest brands in the industry that we are managing with - as part of our portfolio strategy with each of our key brands having its own lane, with its own clear purpose and methodology. And Lisa McKnight, our Chief Brand Officer, will talk about that in more detail at our presentation in March.

Thank you, operator, and thank you, everyone, for your questions today. In conclusion, this was a very strong fourth quarter for the company, double-digit growth, both at the top-line and bottom-line and continued margin expansion.

We ended the year with the strongest balance sheet we've had in years, putting us in an excellent position to continue to execute our strategy. As we look to 2024, we believe we are very well-positioned competitively and will continue to outpace the industry and gain market share. And we talked today about two important programs that we put in place for the - one is for the $1 billion of share repurchase and the other one is the Optimizing for Profitable Growth Program of $200 million savings over the next three years.

So we look forward to discussing more about our strategy and our road map for the year and beyond at our investor presentation in March. So please look out for more details about that. We'll have a lot more to share with you then.

And now I'll turn the call back over to Dave.