Peter Zaffino
Peter Zaffino
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
I don't think so. I think the accident year loss ratio that we finished the year is what I would expect in in 2024. Like you said, there's always a mix of business changes, there's always a little bit of noise. There could be some shift in composition. As you mentioned, property, we think we have tremendous opportunities there based on having five or six entry points across the world in terms of getting the best risk adjusted returns. When I look at what we've done in property over the last five years, we've gone from combined ratios in North America that are well north of 130 combines into the 70s and 80s now.
So I think we have a really good platform. We're able to scale up businesses when we see opportunities. But I would think absent big mix of business changes, I would not expect any changes in the loss ratio. And I signaled on the call that the remediation is largely behind us. And again, we're always going to be re-underwriting, but large programs or portions of the business in commercial, we really like what we have and think that there's real good opportunities for growth.
Thanks, Mike.
Good morning, Meyer. Sabra, do you want to talk about the reserves commensurate to the increase in premium and -- sorry, an increase in rate change, particularly on excess?
One other observation Meyer on that is that, the rates as we got to the back half of the year in casually, particularly in excess casually started to accelerate into double digits. And also, not that this is a bellwether, because there's different mix of business, but our casually submissions in Lexington in the fourth quarter were up 100%, which just means it's getting harder to get casualty placements done in the middle market. Pricing is going up, driven by rate, terms and conditions are being tightened, and there's more activity in [ENS] (ph).
Sure. Look, our casualty placements have evolved over time to reflect the portfolio, the gross limit deployment. And if I could take you back to even 2016 and 2017, where we had quota shares before we arrived, where we had a 50% quota share on primary casualty and then we had a 37.5% placement on excess casualty. That's just continued to evolve as we got into 2018 where we bought a large excess loss placements for our worldwide casualty portfolio for 75 25. And then at the end of 2018, we bought a 50% quota share for our casualty portfolio within the United States.
And the reason why I just give you that as a baseline is, we've changed, evolved, we've had reinsurance in place since 2016. But when you look at what we place on the quota share today, it's basically 20%. So we've taken that down while we've improved ceding commissions over 800 basis points from the original placement to 20% from north of 50%. So I think we have been recognizing that we don't need to do as much proportional, but there's a balance in those placements between the excess and the quota share partnerships with reinsurers. They like a balance between the excess of loss and quota share in terms of our underwriting and feel very comfortable that that's a good amount to cede off for looking at our overall casualty portfolio.
Thank you.
Thanks, Elyse. I'll turn it over to Sabra in two seconds, but I just want to caution us that we tried to outline what we expect shareholders' equity with a variety of different variables, but it was all pro forma. So I think Sabra can answer the question sort of technically as to how we should be looking about our capital relative to how we get to the 10% ROCE, but I just don't want to go into too many more variables because that was the pro forma that had a lot of assumptions. Sabra?
Well, when you take out -- again, there's a lot of moving pieces, but like you take out Validus, Crop Risk Services, and so we have a baseline. And then when we look at our commercial portfolio, yes, I look at the fundamentals Elyse in terms of how are we growing the business and we gave you highlights in the fourth quarter about our new business which was simply terrific and that momentum continues. Our retentions have been fantastic and so, again, it's a portfolio that we have done such a great job to get to a place where we really like and find opportunities for stability and more growth.
Agree on the rate, I mean, again, the fourth quarter was just a moment, but we would expect Financial Lines in 2024 not to keep up at the same pace on excess. We'll see as we get into the market, but really like the opportunities in our core businesses to drive growth. Lexington, I know there's been a lot of discussion in this quarter around is excess and surplus lines slowing down, things going back to the admitted. There's no evidence to suggest that's true. Again, submission count is significantly up and it's not just property. Property, if I looked at the fourth quarter, was the lowest submission count growth and that was up over 30%. As I said, property is around 30%. Casualty was up over 100% and healthcare was around 50%. So there's a lot more opportunity to continue to grow in excess and surplus lines And you know what the property market you get to the second quarter and there's your opportunity.
So like we have built a reinsurance structure, we built a gross portfolio that we can flex depending on market conditions. I mentioned global specialty, we think there's growth opportunities there, we think there's growth opportunities in our personal insurance business. So we're cautious, but optimistic that the growth rate that you outline, the high single digits is going to be achieved. But again, we have to be in the year and we'll give you updates every quarter, but we're optimistic.
Absolutely.
Good morning, Mike. Thanks for the question. If I look at international on the rate side, just a reminder that we do rate on gross premium written, not net. And so like as you take that from the portfolio, there's a heavy weighting of our specialty business in the fourth quarter. And the specialty business does have a lot of quota shares and has a terrific reinsurance partnership, but it's almost 50% of the business, roughly between 40% to 50% in the quarter. And so specialty, while had good rate increase in marine political risk, had a weighting on rate in the quarter, as well as Financial Lines. Financial Lines are 20% of the gross premium written in the quarter and having a negative -- that just weights the overall rate environment. But we had very strong rate in property. We had very good rate, as I mentioned in my prepared marks of 8% in Marine. And so yes, the overall index was at or perhaps slightly below lost cost trend, but it's not something we're concerned about.
The other thing too in specialty you should realize is that, December 1st is when all aviation renews. And so, that was low single digits, again, waiting on it. But it's mixed of business. It's gross. And why I say gross is that, when you take the gross to net for our specialty businesses, it’s basically 50% net premium written to gross. And so, we put that in the math in terms of our ceding commissions and profitability of the portfolio. But overall, we were pleased and think that there's opportunities to improve that in 2024.
Sabra, do you want to provide a little bit of update in terms of how we got to the adverse?
Thank you, Brian. It's a good question it's a little leading, but we had outlined the capital management strategy for the first six months, and that gets us below the 650 million share count at a base assumption of a stock price around where we are now. And so there's a few variables that could accelerate that or slow it down depending on market conditions and share price. But we know we have the liquidity and we just wanted to outline what we thought we would do within the first six months. The next is dependent upon when we do a secondary sell down, which I would expect before the end of the second quarter, another sell down, which gives us more liquidity. And the primary focus is going to be on share repurchase and dividend payment and believe that we can then, get by the end of the year down to the lower end of the range or the 600 million.
Once we're closer to that, we feel like we've made enormous progress on all the elements of our capital management strategy. It has been very balanced and believe we would have to give guidance after that in terms of what we intend to do. But I kind of want to get to the range first in the 600 to 650 and then get to the lower end of the range with proceeds and then we would provide additional guidance.
Thank you, Brian, for the question. And I've been trying to find a way to bring in McElroy to close it out. So Dave, why don't you give Brian some insight and then we'll send it back to me and we'll finish up.