1Karen Lynch
Karen Lynch
CVS CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses
Yes. And Lisa, I just want to reemphasize the point that Tom made about 2025, and I said this in our prepared remarks, that we are committed for margin recovery in Medicare Advantage for 2025, and we'll account for that in our bids.
Hey Justin, it's Karen, and I'll hand this over to Brian in a second, but I just want to comment on the rate notice because that's critical to how we think about 2025 bids. There's kind of three things I would say here. One is we believe it's in line with our expectations relative to being flat. However, we do not believe it covers overall cost trends that have been emerging in Medicare Advantage.
We also know that there's complexity around the risk model. And so we'll be contemplating that as we think about our bids.
And then finally, there's some uncertainty around how the Inflation Reduction Act impacts Part D, and that we'll be taking that under consideration when we do our bids as well and providing comments to CMS relative to these points. So all of those will factor in to our bid process, but we will be driving for margin recovery. And let me have Brian specifically answer your detailed questions.
Yes, I would say that the comments and the feedback have generally been positive with the discussions. Initially, obviously, there's a lot of details to go through and to work through. But we're really pleased with sort of the initial reaction. And I'll ask Prem to give you a little bit more detail here.
And Ann, I would just remind everyone that the industry has continually talked about the importance of driving cost transparency and affordability and simplicity. And with this model and our TrueCost model, we are really kind of leading at the forefront to support those items. And I think as Prem has been out in the market, there is a lot of support for this.
So Josh, the way we think about it is 4% to 5% margin needs to be at HCB. And then we get the benefit of our growth from all the other assets that we can bring to bear for the company. So that's our philosophical approach to MA bids. And then relative to how the Healthspire assets can support MA, I'll ask Mike to give you some comments on that.
And Allen, I'd also note, and we said this in the prepared remarks that we've been making good progress on our store closures, and we've been retaining scripts and retaining colleagues, which was critical to the success of those store closures as well.
And John, strategically, I wouldn't just think about one type of RSV vaccine. I want you to think about kind of an immunization franchise that the retail business has really developed and which is really creating strong value for that business.
Yes, relative to what's going on in Washington, obviously, this is -- continued discussions are going on there. I do think that they're talking about transparency. If anything does get passed, I think it will be around transparency. But I would tell you that given some of the actions that we have taken with both TrueCost and CostVantage, that is resonating with the legislators and is helpful in driving overall cost transparency. And I can't predict what's going on in D.C., but I know that we're taking action to improve overall outcome.