David Hult
David Hult
Asbury Automotive Group, Inc. (ABG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure, Daniel. I'll do the best I can, and then Dan can jump in if he wants. We love the software. We love the tool. We love the option it gives our guests to acquire a vehicle in a very transparent and fast manner. The ebbs and flows as it grows and adoption from the consumers is going to vary by brand, and in some cases, by states with us that we've seen so far. We were, I think, going through COVID very optimistic that it was going to be a good higher percentage of our sales than what it currently is today, but we still think it's a very valued tool, and it will continue to be a part of our business and grow over time as consumers get more comfortable with purchasing a vehicle online. As we all know through the COVID times, everything was really selling at a 1 price or MSRP. Now that the prices are softening and normalizing a little bit that creates more of a negotiation standpoint, which would certainly challenge Clicklane going forward. We have built algorithms on both new and used for pricing within the markets to make sure that we have the vehicles priced appropriately so there isn't a defection over price. But that is something we're entering new territory with this with Clicklane. So we'll have to monitor it as we go.
And one last thing to add. When we launched it, it was solely an online tool and consumers went through it online. Now that we've built showroom models, the customer is starting their journey sometimes online at home, sometimes in the showroom, sometimes putting their personal information, social doing the financing coming in and finishing the deal. It's really just engagement in the software that's increasing. But from our standpoint, we don't count the sale if they didn't give us all their personal information, social security. So if they just were in there looking at the tool and getting pricing that didn't count for us. They had to give us their personal information, put their social in there.
And Daniel, just to follow up on that, January is over now. We saw a nice increase in January year-over-year across the company. So that gives us some hope that we're headed in the right direction. It's that time of year or 2, and we've got a lot of stores in Denver and Salt Lake, weather is a challenge as well. So I don't know what weather is going to be in store for us the rest of the quarter and we certainly had some in January, but we've seen some nice progress in January. We frustrated a lot of our team members in the fourth quarter when you convert software and go through all that and never go smoothly. So you're frustrating your guests, you're frustrating your employees, and it's just a painful process to go through. But we're pretty much on the other side of that at this point.
I'm sorry, Dan, you cut out. All I heard was January improvement.
No, I wouldn't say that because we were -- we had some negative impact in January and some in lost days with the weather. So I kind of feel like that's not an issue.
John, I'll start. And this is David and Dan can jump in. I would say we've had a conservative approach on acquiring inventory and may be too conservative. We've been right or wrong, more focused on gross profit than we have volume. We need to take a more aggressive stand at acquiring vehicles. Naturally, when we acquire or purchase a vehicle, our gross profit is lower than when we take it in trade. And as a reminder, when your trades are coming in and the average age of the trade is 12.5 years, sometimes a lot of the trade-ins that you have just aren't for retail sale. I expect in '24, it's still to be challenging because there's not a lot of fleet vehicles coming off. There's not a lot of off-lease vehicles. So it'll still be a tight pool to pick from. But I think it's time that we take a more aggressive stance on creating more volume.
Sure, John. This is David. No, Koons acquisition had nothing to do with it. We're optimistic about the number because some of it was self-inflicted, trying different things on our end. We took a more aggressive stance on loaner vehicles and depreciation. And quite honestly, we spent a lot more in advertising in the quarter than what we normally spend per car. So those are 2 controllable expenses that we have. So when we think about the personnel costs and other expenses that we have, we were comfortable where we came in and consistent with our past, but those 2 line items that I mentioned really had an impact on overall SG&A. Michael, I don't know if you want to comment.
Sure, Ryan. As you can imagine, the days supply for us looked low in the quarter. But as Dan stated, it was really the pickup in sales in December that brought down the day supply. We still had Honda and Toyota in the mid-teens for a day supply. So naturally, you can imagine the margin held up there. We had a higher days supply in Nissan, so that certainly impacted the margin. We have a hard day supplying to Lantus. That impacted the margin in with Infinity. But with some other brands like Alexis, Mercedez and our others meeting Porsche, Land Rover, margins we felt really held up well. And as you can obviously see significantly above 2019. So we really think we're in a pretty good space for our new car business, both on gross profit and volume. But the story varies by brand, certainly.
Absolutely. This is David. Keep in mind, Tekion is a fairly new company, and we're excited. We've been talking with them for over 2 years. Working together to overcome obstacles and what both of us would need to do on our end to create the relationship. Tekion is a cloud-based DMS. The other DMS companies are not. The technology with the other legacy DMSs, unfortunately, require a tremendous amount of bolt-on software applications. So if you're in our sales or service teams, you have multiple different applications open at the same time, which doesn't make you efficient -- doesn't make you efficient in communicating internally or with the guest. With Tekion, again, in the building process, and we'll launch 4 stores on the pod in the third quarter. But with Tekion, we'll have the opportunity to take off about 70% to 75% of the bolt-ons that we have, which will keep folks in one software base and make it easier for them to communicate internally and also in working with our guests. And the other thing that we find beneficial to us, right now, if you're a customer one of our stores in Atlanta, when you go to another store in Atlanta, they can't see what you did at the prior store. What we're working on is a one customer profile with Tekion, which will allow any of our stores to see that customer transactions any stores that they did business with us. So there's going to be efficiencies in marketing, there's going to be efficiencies in productivity with employees, and there's going to be a better guest experience. Our belief is because our folks will be really living out of one software base and more comfortable interacting with them.
Rajat, this is David. At this time, we're not comfortable quoting a number, but I would tell you because of the lack of bolt-ons that we'll have in working out of 1 DMS or 1 software application for the most part, we anticipate a nice tailwind to our SG&A expense. As we -- third quarter, we'll launch 4 stores in our shared service center on the East Coast. Our anticipation is allowing that to run through the end of the year, work out the kinks. And if all goes well, the beginning of '25, we will start to roll out the rest of the company. And because of the Koons acquisition most recently just coming on, they would be the last ones to convert, and we would see them converting sometime in early '26. So good progress if we get it through with Tekion, which we believe we are, we're working really well with them and getting a lot done. We anticipate January rolling out all our stores, finishing up with Koons in the early part of '26.
There is -- the DMS conversion took place mainly in the third quarter into the fourth. And then we rolled out Parts and Service software kind of a bolt-on to our DMS. There are just a handful of stores left that we are rolling out right now, but it's a very small amount.
But like our peers, we certainly had some impact with parts. But quite honestly, we had some impact with parts on OEMs that don't have union issues. So it was just an odd end of the year from a parts standpoint, ebbing and flowing with when we're receiving parts.
I'll talk about the gross profit per vehicle, and Dan could hit the electric car stuff. It's a great question, Bret. The brands that you mentioned, Nissan, Salantis and Infinity they had the biggest impact as far as going backwards in PVR. But all 3 of them are significantly above, say, 2019, still very -- again, if you're comparing it to '19, extremely healthy, good gross profits, and they were good numbers overall, just compared to some of their peers in their spaces, meaning domestic, luxury and import, they weren't as good.
Okay. This concludes our call today. We appreciate you joining us for the fourth quarter earnings in year-end. We look forward to speaking with you after the first quarter. Have a great day.