Bob Jordan
Bob Jordan
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, Ravi, it's Bob. I'll start, and then maybe Ryan can jump in. Obviously, a lot of the year-over-year improvement counts on the initiatives delivering, and I feel very confident about that. I mean, some of this is our Investor Day initiatives continuing to perform. And then on top of that, you have new things, a lot of which -- the majority of which are the network improvements, which, as you know, are in place materially beginning in March and then fully in place by early summer.
And so we have a lot of confidence in, though, certainly, the Investor Day initiatives delivering. And while it's early in the quarter, we have some line of sight into, obviously, March and how will the network change and optimization is delivering, and we're on track there. It's things like -- it's basically adjusting for new demand patterns. It's adjusting -- you know what they are. The Tuesday, Wednesday, shoulder flying, those kinds of things. But no, I feel like we're on track to hit that incremental $1.5 billion. Again, most of that is revenue. About two-thirds of that is revenue related. Ryan, do you want to add anything?
Yes, Jamie, obviously, there are -- I mean, there are probably as many moving parts right now as I've ever seen. You've got -- as Ryan talked about, you've got a focus on parts of the cabin that are outperforming our route network that are outperforming, you've got -- you've got a lot of capacity moving around in the industry right now. You've got mergers. So it's tough to tell that -- and on top of that, obviously, you've got capacity impacts due to aircraft delivery, the DTF issues, all those things. So I think it's not to tease out. My guess would be that all of those factors probably get worse across the year. The impact of those are going to continue to increase, especially as you see more impacts on capacity and aircraft due to potential Boeing impacts, obviously, the geared turbofan. So more to follow.
On our end, obviously, we're focused on Southwest Airlines. I'm really pleased with 2023 and all that we got accomplished that we talked about. We ended the year a much better carrier than we were the year before. The area of course, where I'm not satisfied is our financial performance. We're running roughly four points under our cost of capital right now. And that is our focus here at Southwest, and we've got a really good plan here in '24…
Jamie, my apologies there. I don't know where we left off. But my point is we are focused on Southwest. We're focused in 24 years on expanding margins covering our cost of capital that sets us up for a lot of momentum to then even make even more progress in 2025. And thinking about capacity for Southwest Airlines, our capacity, our CapEx, as we plan forward, will obviously take into consideration the progress we are making against those financial goals. I just want you to know that. The backdrop of the industry, I think, is going to play out here across 2024, and we'll just have to see.
Yes. Well, let me just back up a second. Obviously, there's a lot going on with Boeing. I mean, the MAX 8 is a great aircraft. We're very satisfied with it. And like Boeing, we support the work of the FAA and the oversight to improve quality, address any issues because at the end of the day, better Boeing is good for Southwest Airlines.
The -- we periodically look at aircraft manufacturers and aircraft types. That's something we take up routinely here at Southwest Airlines. We've done that in the past. And our focus right now is on our own fleet plan, our fleet plan with Boeing. Obviously, working with Boeing to get the MAX 7 certified. But we do take that up periodically.
You also have to understand every -- I know you know this, but there isn't -- as such, there's no such thing as being able to derisk all of this. Even if you have multiple aircraft providers, say we were 50-50, you'd have 400 aircraft to one type and 400 of another type, and so an issue still creates great risk for the company. So the best thing that we can do is work with Boeing to make them an even better company, which is exactly what's happening.
We've got great confidence again in the MAX 8, and we're eager to get to MAX-7, we're not in charge of that certification date. But no, we have confidence that Boeing will get all this figured out with the FAA will come out a better company.
Jamie, thank you.
Thank you, and I'll start, and then I'm sure Tammy you will pile in. I mean the -- we were accrued for our labor contract increases here. We've got nine done, two to go it's really, for the most part, it's rate increases here in 2024. So if you take the pilots, for example, they've got a 4% rate increase. We've got some benefit increases. That's the majority of the $6 million to $7 million.
On top of that, you have maintenance pressure that was known. It's really the 800 engines coming off holiday and that's a couple of points. Those are going to be things, wage rate pressure, maintenance pressure that most of the industry shares.
Now on the efficiency side, as we go across the year, we've peaked our hiring, and we will -- our target is to end the year in 2024 with fewer heads than we ended the year 2023, which will, of course, naturally make us more efficient for the 7% growth. It’s too early to talk about 2025. But as you maybe think about a forecast there, yeah, you would naturally decelerate from the unit cost pressure this year. And our goal, we're not ready to give you a number, of course, for 2025, but our goal will be to dramatically control that headcount growth again in 2025. And we'll be sharing a lot more about that at our Investor Day later in the year.
And Brandon, this is Bob. The only thing I would add is -- and this is no prediction don't read more into this than is there. You've got to meet your customers' demand and their expectations. So as those change over time, you want to understand that. You want to be -- you want to carefully understand that. And we have a history of demonstrating that.
So you go back 10 years, we wouldn't have been talking about Wi-Fi. We would not have been talking about power on the aircraft. And you can go on and on and on. There was a time when we didn't even have a loyalty program here at Southwest Airlines. So as consumer demands and expectations change and you've got different generations of flyers coming into the system as well.
We will constantly look at that, understand what our customers want. And then if that warrants change, we will look at that, and we will make the right decision. Again, we have a history of doing that with our product here and our customer experience. That's no predictor regarding premium in the cabin. I'm just trying to make sure that you know that we aren't stubborn in this area that as you see demands change, we'll understand that and we will react if needed.
Yes. Maybe Helane, thank you. Maybe I can start and...
Yes, I'll try to remember everything. I think just generally, I think the biggest impact, sort of tearing everything aside in the fourth quarter is we did choose to restore capacity quickly. So basically, that was a choice to number one, get our aircraft back to normal utilization, fly all our aircraft, our pilots, all that. And so our capacity, our ramp-up was greater than normal, and therefore, we did have -- you could see it, we had a drop in load factor. I think that's the biggest contributor in terms of the performance rate there that's different than normal. And our '24 plan, obviously, is to get back to normal in that area as we normalize capacity.
So to me, that's the biggest thing. And I don't attribute any of that. I'll get to your flight attendant question. We don't -- I don't attribute any of that to book away in the holidays, for example, related to Elliot or something like that. I think it really was the rate of capacity restoration.
As we look at our consumer -- our customer behaviors, we look at our customer metrics, demand for Southwest Airlines, there's no indicator or indication that we saw any hangover or book away. In fact, the holiday periods were the strongest periods of the quarter.
Your question about the flight attendant, and I'm really proud of our labor folks. We ratified nine agreements in just over a year. We have two to go, one of those with TW 556 are flight attendants. We were at federal mediation. And in federal mediation, you follow the mediator, and the mediator determines your dates and when you meet and we're eager to get a contract done. And just like our pilots who are in mediation, I'm confident we can do that.
The SAV or the strike vote does not mean you are headed to a strike. There are many, many, many things that have to occur before we get to that point. So, I'm not worried about a strike despite the strike authorization vote. When we saw our pilots, I take an SAV or strike authorization vote. We did not see any very little customer even indicator that the customers were focused on it or aware. So I don't expect any kind of hangover from that here in terms of customer demand with -- because of the flight attendant vote. Ryan, do you want to add anything there?
That sentiment is fully recovered to at this point. And our NPS scores, our customer satisfaction have recently have been records and certainly back to pre-pandemic levels.
Thank you.
Yes, I'll answer directly and add Andrew, if you want to chime in. I think we're not ready to talk about that in maybe as much detail as you want until we get to our Investor Day here later this year. But absolutely, it's just like the goal of covering our cost of capital this year, and getting back to our historic returns and ROIC well above WACC, restoring efficiency is right alongside in terms of the key goal or a key goal.
We ramped up our hiring quickly to be able to restore the network and get all of our aircraft flying. That hiring peaked in October to November, and we have been decelerating that rapidly here in the last 60 days. The plan is to, again, to grow six-or-so percent this year and then to end this year with the same or fewer heads than we began the year, which will obviously help our efficiency quite a bit. Not ready to discuss 2025, but we would have certainly a directionally similar goal in 2025.
We also have a significant number to hate to tease here. We have a significant number of efficiency initiatives that we are planning around both efficiency of the aircraft, efficiency of our people and processes as we think about things like the turn, and we'll be sharing a lot more about that again in our Investor Day later this year.
I'd tell you what, you're stretching my technical abilities here, but I believe like a lot of companies, we have a path to shift to the cloud. But again, it's to shift the appropriate things to the cloud. It's not as simple as it might sound.
I think we have shifted something on the order of just below 50% is what I've got in my head, and we have a goal to shift a lot more. Some of that is cost savings, absolutely. And -- but I think that is more modest. A lot of what you gain is reliability. And the ability to fail over systems and obviously support operations, support our systems, which is critical here in an airline. You have systems that can't be down 30 minutes cause you an operational problem.
So, a lot of the shift to the cloud is as much a resiliency effort and a modernization of the code base and all that effort as it is a cost savings. Certainly, you'll see cost savings. And -- but I just don't -- not my guess is it's more in the tens of millions than it is hundreds of millions
The other lease of that, too, and then we'll -- I'll stop is the -- there is a -- it's not a tech cost, but there is a very high cost, both revenue and expense and being down and having an issue. And you saw issues earlier this year or last year, like the NOTAM outage that really hurt the industry. And so to the extent that you can reduce issues, reduce the number of the issues, the length of time of an issue or reduce them completely. My guess is that is more powerful in terms of cost reduction than even the technology reduction because reducing IROPs is very powerful.
Dan, thank you.
I'll start, and Andrew, you'll file in, Ali. Obviously, the certification of the MAX 7 and the issue there, that's really Boeing. I don't want to speak for Boeing or get ahead here. Obviously, we want the MAX 7 and we want it on the best timing possible. So I don't want to talk for Boeing, but it is one more thing to consider here in the certification process and certification time line.
Hey, Leslie, it's Bob. We don't -- obviously, like I said earlier, there is a lot going on in the industry. They're between merger potential mergers and acquisitions and issues with aircraft deliveries, the geared turbofan, I don't know in my 36 years in the industry. I've seen more moving parts as you have right now. One thing that's consistent here is we stick to our business. So we're focused on Southwest Airlines, improving Southwest Airlines being the best carrier that we can be improving our returns and profit and margins, all the things that we've talked about. It's impossible to speculate on what might happen. Our history would say that as opportunities arise for Southwest, if they make sense, we take a look at that. But I wouldn't want to speculate on anything going on in the industry, certainly around any other carrier.
Hey, Rajesh, Boeing has been a partner with us for 52 years. And I have absolute confidence that between the FAA oversight work that's going on, the work that Boeing is doing that Boeing will working with the FAA will address the quality issues, and we'll obviously come out of this a better company. I've talked personally to their leadership. They're committed to doing anything and everything it takes to be better and to address the problems. And as I said before, a better Boeing is very good for Southwest Airlines. So yeah, I have absolute confidence that they will work their way through this and address the issues.