Michel Khalaf
Yes, I think when we announced the deal, we thought this would give us 50 points to 60 points. We still think it will. There’s a little bit of what happens immediately and then how things trend in over time. Also, there’s a lot of other things going on, fungibility, growth. We had some very sizable growth in RAS. So, we deployed some extra capital this year. So, I think a lot of those things. But in terms of the deal economics that we outlined at time of signing, everything came in as expected.
Yes. Hi, Elyse, it's Michel. Thanks for the question.
So we talked about the reinsurance transaction as providing us with significant financial flexibility. And as you heard from John, our RBC ratio is approximately 400%. And I would just note here that the 5.2 Holdco cash does not yet include any of the reinsurance proceeds. So the excess capital is sitting in our statutory entities and it will ultimately migrate to the Holdco. We view excess capital as fungible and we will redeploy it over time.
And in the absence of attractive organic or inorganic growth opportunities as I think we've built a good track record in terms of being deliberate and expeditious, post major divestitures and how we return capital to shareholders. And as you've seen since we closed on the transaction, we've leaned into buybacks especially in January. I wouldn't sort of consider January as monthly run rate for the full year, but we're going to continue to be opportunistic here. Hope that helps.
Yes. Hey, John, I don't have that number handy. Specifically in terms of employee count. The best thing you could look at for an indicator for that is just overall employment levels because we have a very diversified book up and down market. It's highly diversified by industry. So you could think of us as reflecting the broader economy in terms of our employee count.
But the one that I would look at more closely is, and this is where we see a lot of white space with respect to employee counts, is the penetration rate in the workspace. We still see plenty of opportunity to drive penetration of our own products, be they voluntary or employee paid. And that's through the deployment of the right technology, the right tools, the right engagement capabilities. And that's really what's been fueling our voluntary growth over the past few years. And that's where we see continued future growth opportunities.