1Chris Leahy
Chris Leahy
CDW Corporation (CDW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, and Al, thanks. I would just add, if you take a big step back, Adam, what are our customers facing? They're facing proliferating data. They're facing ever-expanding cyber threats, expanding workloads, hardware obsolescence, the incredible promise of new technologies. And so the landscape that they're facing and the essential nature of technology to every single walk of life is not going away. So as we look forward to those catalysts that Al mentioned, think about digital transformation. That's a durable trend, and it's a continuous process, and many customers have really paused on their investment and evolution in 2023. That's going to come back when uncertainty abates.
Network modernization continues to be top of mind, and once that digestion gets through the process, then there's only going to be a need to handle greater network traffic and data, et cetera. Security threats continue to grow, and they're more sophisticated, kind of exclamation point. Client devices are just aging, and even the pre-pandemic devices are coming on four years old, and then we've got Windows 10 sun-setting. You've got all of those things that are catalysts that we're going to see coming down the pike, and then just add AI. Still early innings, use cases not quite proven out yet, but we're seeing incredibly exciting opportunities for the services and execution of adoption around those. So I think we couldn't be more excited about the technology industry generally.
Yes, no problem, Adam. Thanks for the question. The vectors you hit would be still consistent with how we're thinking about it, whether geographic expansion, larger acquisitions to bolster capabilities and tuck-ins, which we've been doing. And I would just reiterate, look, M&A is a strategic driver of our value prop and our growth strategy. And you've seen us do 10 acquisitions over the past five years. And those have been very valuable in terms of driving value to our customers. So as we think about where we focus our efforts, driving capabilities and solutions that are high growth and high relevance and in services capabilities, there's a plethora of areas that we could focus, including areas like security and cloud and AI.
And so, I would just say, look, at the end of the day, we've said it before, we're always looking, and we've got a number of identified targets in our pipeline, but it also has to be opportunistic. The one thing I would say, Adam, is when you think about the success in evolving our business to be able to deliver the profitability that we did this year with the hardware pressure and the other dynamics happening in the marketplace, that's due to bringing on capabilities that are highly strategic, highly relevant, and then executing against them. So when I think back five years versus now, our cloud business has grown on a compound annual growth basis by 30%, and we did it again in 2023. I look at security, another area that we were very focused on, a maiden acquisition in addition to internal investments, and that business has doubled in three years. So we really are investing behind the most important capabilities, and we're seeing great results as a result.
Thanks for the question. I'll start on market share gain. Look, we hold ourselves accountable consistently to deliver 200 to 300 basis points above IT market rate of growth, and we have a track record of doing just that, and we are confident that in 2023 we did gain share. If you look at our net sales versus what customers spend with CDW, we've talked about that delta widening significantly, and we're over seven basis points now, so we're very confident that we've taken share, even in this very cautious and uneven market environment, and that's due to team's excellent execution and the value of our full stack full life cycle portfolio. Al, I'll turn it to you for the gross profit question.
Good morning, Amit. And yeah, in terms of priorities, they're consistent with what we said in the prepared remarks. I mean, customers in the commercial space in particular are focused on cost optimization, customer employee experience, and things that revolve around that. There's still a heavy focus on digital transformation, obviously, and security as well. AI, which is where you're getting to, AI is a hyper focus. I think last call, we mentioned that you can't have a conversation with a customer without AI coming up, and it's been very exciting because we've had a data AI practice for several years, and that practice, I would say, we deepened it and we scaled it, particularly when we brought IGNW and Sirius into the CDW family.
And currently, I'd say there's burgeoning demand for consultative services in particular, and I'm talking deep technical capabilities as well as industry specific capabilities. And so, we're seeing quite a bit of momentum in our practice there. What I would tell you is that a number of customers are at the front end of their experiences, and we're helping them through use cases and what the efficiencies are to be had. And then we've got customers who are actually piloting some really interesting capabilities, and we're helping them work through those.
Here's what we're not seeing. We're not seeing a budget shift out of IT. What we are seeing and hearing is that budgets are coming from elsewhere in the organization, the functional areas that are going to be improved through AI innovation, like HR, like finance, like marketing, literally across the organization. Organizations are using budgets there to allocate to AI improvements because they're thinking about it merely as business transformation. So we haven't seen a shift, and frankly, we're not expecting that to happen. We're very excited about the opportunities that lie ahead, though.
Yes, it's a great question. I would say currently nascent, the opportunity and the burgeoning demand right now is because of the complexity and the speed and trying to figure out and test use cases. So we are seeing most of the activity for us in our advisory and consulting services. I think I use the word burgeoning. The momentum has been significant. But if you think longer term, this is a full stack play. And that's why CDW is a scaled full stack full life cycle provider with expertise, not just technically, but deep into each industry vertical is positions as well to help our customers.
And as you know, when we think about CDW strategy and the growth over the years, we have been moving our capabilities to ensure that we are moving closer to the front end of the value chain. AI is a great example of that strategy and action given the consulting momentum that we've been seeing. But at the end of the day, we're talking about the need for power and consumption and data center enhancements and up and down the stack. So in terms of timing across the next several years, it's hard to say exactly when the various components of the stack will hit. But what I would say is just like any kind of revolutionary technology change, it moves fast and this will move faster. So we're seeing AI as an accelerant in our business and one that we think will play out fairly quickly over the next 24 months.
Yeah, I'll start and then Al jump in. You know, I think it's hard to say at this point. What I would say is when we think about AI as a tool to increase productivity and results, just like we say technology is essential to every component of every organization being competitive and winning and delivering on their mission. AI is going to be central to that proposition, because artificial intelligence is going to be embedded in every component and everything that we sell from the edge to the core.
And so, however that plays out in terms of how of our customers consume it, how they purchase it and how they consume it, we will be able to deliver across the full stack to them in terms of what that looks like in netted down revenue specifically. Again, hard to really have a crystal ball as to how it's going to play out in that regard. Al, any thoughts on that?
Yeah, Erik, it's a great, great question. One, we actually face here at CDW. At one point, you know, we do -- we loosen the first strings. Here's what I'd say, two things. One, there's definitely pent up demand. Our customers are ready to start putting plans in action. Two, they're looking to be more confident in the expectations for the rest of the year. So while there have been some more positive indicators currently around the economy, I mean, we still have elevated inflation and elevated interest rates, and they're just merely waiting to feel more confident in where the economy is going. I hate to make it that simple, but, but frankly, it is. But we're also equally confident of the pent up demand and the desire for our customers to get moving on those projects. I'm talking about the commercial space in particular, but get moving on those projects that they have delayed and deferred for some period of time.
Well, thank you very much, Taylor. And let me close by recognizing the incredible dedication and hard work of our coworkers around the globe. Their ongoing commitment to serving our customers is what makes us successful. Thank you to our customers for the privilege and opportunity to help you achieve your goals. And thank you to those listening through your time and continued interest in CDW.