Kevin Lobo
Kevin Lobo
Stryker Corporation (SYK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. Thanks, Robbie. It certainly was a terrific year in 2023. We had 9.7% organic the year before and over 11% organic in 2023. And frankly, we feel very good going into 2024. At some point, you think the comps will start to catch up a little bit. And so we think 7.5% to 9% is a strong guide. I can tell that coming off all of the domestic sales meetings, there is tremendous energy and excitement among our teams. The procedure volumes are strong. The capital markets are very strong. Hospitals are spending. We have we exited the year with more backlog than we began the year, which means, obviously, our orders are continuing to be strong for capital equipment.
So we – and we have a number of new launches, again, planned in 2024. Obviously, 2023 was a great year of capitalizing on product launches, whether it's System 9, whether it was Neptune S, whether it was the 1788. We have other launches coming again. So our pipeline of innovation is very strong. And so I expect us to continue to grow at the high end of MedTech, in a MedTech market that is quite healthy.
Yes. Thanks, Larry. I would say that we're back on M&A offense now, what I'll call our normal M&A offense. And as you've seen in the past with Stryker that would typically mean larger volume of tuck-in deals. And those can be large, and they can also be small. During the pause, while we paid down debt, all of our BD teams worked very actively. Believe me, they have a long list of targets, and we are going to be active now that we've gotten our leverage back to where we'd like to be.
So let's say we're back to the normal Stryker offense. Expect us to be doing deals. We are open to larger deals. But our history would tell you that the vast majority of our deals are going to be smaller tuck-ins, but we can do many deals versus being very limited last year.
Yes. Thanks. We're delighted with the progress that we've made. 60% of U.S. Knees being done on the robot is pretty remarkable given how long ago we launched the Total Knee application and SNFs starting to really climb since we launched the 4.0 software has been terrific. Cementless continues to climb as well. And that tends to index much higher with the use of Mako. And as you know, we are clearly the leader in not just in robotic-assisted surgery, but clearly the leader in Cementless as well.
So a lot of good things going on with a market that is obviously a little better than it has been historically. But Mako continues to be the engine of growth, and that's true in the hospital. That's true in the ASPs as well. And we're seeing continued growth in the ASP, where our Stryker offense is really winning at a pretty spectacular rates as it relates to new builds and big renovations. So we have a lot of momentum across all of those dimensions, which translates to terrific performance as you saw with hips and knees.
But the other part of our story is trauma extremities. So the right medical acquisition has been a complete home run of a deal. And you’re seeing that not only has it been great for our extremities business, but it enabled us to focus a lot more on our core trauma business. And we really had all of our businesses in trauma extremities humming as we exited the year. And some great product launches towards the end of the year and some more to come in 2024.
Yes. Look, we love our medical business. And frankly, it’s become a big and very fast growing business. We continue to expect it to grow above Stryker’s average growth rate. That is going to be true for the next five years. From quarter-to-quarter, it does bounce around a little bit because, of course, there’s capital, a lot of large capital within medical. But you also have increasingly more stable revenue with Sage, which is doing spectacularly well.
Then you’ve got, obviously, the AED demand, which has exploded. And we have a terrific AED business, tremendous innovation, we launched the Xpedition stair chair in the early part of the year, the first powered stair chair, which the firehouses absolutely love. And then you’ve got a lot of new demand for the wireless connection, wireless stretchers.
So just tremendous innovation, tremendous leadership position, and now a much more diverse set of businesses than we had historically. So I think medical is the business. And Stryker that’s the most underestimated because AEDs are high growth, our powered cots are high growth, and now our bed business is doing really well behind ProCuity.
And then you have Vocera in addition to that. So really, I would expect high growth from all of those different businesses. Sage, Vocera, beds, stretchers, AEDs because of innovation that we’re constantly innovating. And we have a couple of big launches in medical coming this year as well. So it’s an exciting time to be at medical. And we also have an outstanding leadership team. They’ve really focused on talent for years and years and years. And so I’m very bullish on medical. And I think again, whatever people have in their models, we’ve tended to beat medical and people back for the last six years.
Yes. I’ll take the first part and then Jason can talk about AAOS. Look, that, that I would say that our pipeline of innovation is incredibly strong. When I mentioned the term super cycle, that really was referring to, let’s call them big platform launches. But the reality is we’re driving tremendous growth even in some of the divisions that don’t have big platform growth launches, if you think about upper extremities, if you think about foot and ankle, but I would say the big ones coming up, we have this Pangea launch within our core trauma business, which is a big platform launch.
We have a new defibrillator that’s coming, of course, pending FDA approval. It’s a PMA device, but we’re very excited. That’s what I would call a big platform launch. We have MAKO spine coming in the third quarter of this year. That’s another big platform launch towards the end of the year. We have the MAKO shoulder and we have this product that we call CO-PILOT, which is a very exciting product that’s going to be used by spine surgeons as well as neurosurgeons, which is within the same ecosystem as MAKO and our Q navigation system.
So those are the ones I’d point out too. But I – what I tell you is every business has launches planned and some of them, you accumulate a number of small launches and you end up driving pretty terrific growth. But I would say maybe we’re kind of midway through the large platforms. But I would tell you everyone’s reloading. So we launched 1788 and they’re reloading and already working on 1888.
So I think we’ve just hit a sort of a cadence of innovation that’s as good as it’s ever been in my time at Stryker. And so I don’t expect that we’re going to sort of come off this super cycle and suddenly have some kind of a dip. We’re just reloading and reloading and getting back on M&A offense also will help to continue to fuel that. So I’m very, very bullish really, for the next couple of years that this innovation pipeline across our company will continue to fuel high end growth for this. And second part, Jason?
Yes. Hi, Vijay. As we look at – I don’t want to guide quarterly, but I would tell you that the cadence of what we’re going to deliver from the mid-point will play out similar to 2023. But keep in mind, you got to back out one selling day in Q1 is what I would say and then on VBP, I’ll let Jason.
Yes. Well, first, the direct-to-consumer has been terrific. I mean, obviously, we have such a lead in robotics as a surgery. We want to make sure that we’re differentiating our product among the rest of products and the searches and the impressions that we have exceeded our expectations. We’re really pleased we’re going to continue that program for a good portion of this year. And so that’s certainly helped create a tremendous interest among consumers as well as hospitals, who actually watch the same ads as consumers. So we’re very excited about that.
Spine, we couldn’t be more happy, because certainly that’s been a gap in our portfolio relative to others. And this has got terrific workflow. And look, I think robotic adoption tends to really grow. No matter what procedure you’re doing, if you have a good solution, it will over time become the majority and eventually standard of care. And we’ve obviously seen this in the general surgery world as it relates to prostate and starting to happen in other cases. And I think it’s going to happen in orthopedics.
So Spine might take a little longer, but I absolutely do believe it’s going to be key for us in the future. We’re extremely excited. We’ve been showing surgeons the MAKO spine getting terrific feedback on the workflow and the speed and the efficiency. And again, that’s within the same ecosystem as the Q Guidance. So we’ve been selling a lot of Q Guidance software, which is used to navigate those procedures. And that same camera, which is the fastest camera on the market, will be compatible with MAKO when we launch it. So I do believe it’ll become for pedicle screw placement, at least the vast majority of the procedures in the future.
Okay. Well, I think if you look at the hospitals and what they’re saying, that’s kind of one of the indicators we look at. They’re busy, right? The hospitals are busy, patients, definitely aging demographics plays for Stryker’s portfolio that definitely plays to our advantage. And every day, 10,000 more people are turning 65. The activity levels are also increasing, right. The advent of Pickleball has been a terrific thing for our business.
More active people who are elderly tend to want to stay active. And activity levels are kind of the biggest predictor of needing joint replacements and sports medicine procedures. So we’re seeing very good activity levels. And so I don’t really want to talk about backlog. I just think what we’re seeing is patients presenting, frankly, some patients who are just wanting to be more active, losing weight and then wanting to be more active and then being eligible for surgery. So we do see really good waiting lists for surgeries for surgeons in the orthopedic space, hospitals ordering capital, whether it’s small capital or large capital, building more ASCs.
The ASC trend has actually really helped, because patients love it. They go, they get home the same day, they have a terrific experience, and they tell all their friends, and that word of mouth is spreading for hip and knees, absolutely, for hip and knee surgeries that is happening. And our percent of procedures in ASCs continues to climb. So I think those are the – there’s a number of factors I just outlined, all of them pointing to, at least for this year, continued good demand. And I don’t know how temporary it is. This could be continuing, frankly, for a period of time, because I think demographics and activity levels are the two drivers that we’re seeing, at least for our portfolio of businesses.
Yes. Great question. First of all, we have a history that we generally like to follow, and I would tell you that it’s early days. We’re here in January looking at 2024, we feel very confident about where we’re going to perform on sales and driving off margin expansion. At this point, I’m not going to comment on the potential to go beyond that, but we feel very good about the guidance that we put out.
Sure. Yes. I think you can do the math as well as I can, especially given all the areas that I’ve guided in the full year. So I definitely think you’re in the zip code for what we think will happen in 2024. And honestly, if we look at sort of what we’ve laid out and planned for the year, first of all, the natural leverage we get from growth versus fixed cost in operating expenses certainly will provide us some benefits. We also won’t stand still in a lot of the gross margin initiatives that I mentioned, and those will move forward and also provide some benefit that we’ll see in 2024. And so I would tell you that we haven’t walked lightly on this. I would say that across the globe, Stryker is very focused on these op margin expansion projects and sustainable op margin expansion for 2024 and 2025. And so we feel very confident that we’ll be able to deliver that.
Yes. Listen, as we’ve said from the beginning, MAKO shoulder will launch at the end of 2024. So I don’t expect to have much at all of a revenue impact. That said, it’s not like our shoulder business needs MAKO shoulder to be growing at strong double digits. They have terrific products within upper extremities with shoulder ID with a number of really pyrocarbon humeral. We have a fracture stem for Perform, which is incredible, a Reverse Perform stemless. So they have four terrific launches with an upper extremity. So they’re going to do fine even before MAKO. But MAKO will be the end of the year. The feedback from searches have been terrific. But that’ll have much more of an impact in 2025, not so much in 2024.
Yes. The only thing I would add to Jason’s comments are every ASC MAKO that’s installed is financed everyone, and that’s becoming a bigger percentage of the MAKO installation. So what you’re seeing is more financed rentals and financed versus outright capital purchases. So that obviously the revenue number and the revenue growth of 3 percentage or less is not the installation growth. The installation growth is higher than what you’re seeing. And over time that’ll start to normalize and then you’ll start to see the growth rate be more reflective of the installation rate. But we’re going through this kind of transition phase right now, and we are giving them away.
So we charge for it and we have different pricing models, obviously, and we want the customers to have skin in the game, so that if we just give it away, they have no incentive to use it. And what we don’t want are a bunch of robots collecting dust. So we care a lot and we monitor utilization of the robots very, very significantly. And then, of course, OUS we’re seeing terrific pickup and a lot more purchases than finance. We do offer financing around the world, but so far in international we’re seeing a lot more purchases than we are financing, which is why you see the revenue spike. But again, international has a huge potential. It’s kind of where we were in the U.S. about five years ago.
Yes. What I’d say is, first of all, the MAKO brand is extremely well known. That’s a very, very big positive. And I think what you’re going to see is a much faster uptake than you would have seen had we not had already had MAKO on hips and knees. Will it take a little bit of time? Sure. Will a spine surgeon want to share the robot with hips and knee surgeons? Not sure yet. Obviously, that’s something we’re going to see play out, whether they’re going to want their own robot or they’re going to be willing to operate on the days that the hip and knee people aren’t operating. So that’s a whole dynamic. I think that’ll vary account by account. So we’re already working on our commercialization plans.
I think part of the reason for our success is – success with the Q guidance, which is one half of the system. So you’re going to have the Q guidance and then as well, MAKO, they know it’s coming now. Customers have gone to Leesburg, Virginia, our spine headquarters, to see MAKO spine. And many of them have stopped their purchases of other robots knowing that this is coming. So I think that’s what’s helping to contribute to our, let’s call it somewhat improved performance, but we still would like to grow at a higher rate than we are right now. And we know we need not just MAKO, but also the CO-PILOT product.
So we’re going to go from being behind to being ahead. And CO-PILOT should launch in a similar time frame slightly ahead of MAKO spine. So you’re now going to have the CO-PILOT product plus MAKO spine, where our competitors will just have their robot. The ones that have robot will just have a robot without CO-PILOT with haptic feedback that can do the laminectomy and discectomy portions of the procedure, which complements the pedicle screw placement. So we’re really going to be in a great position by the time third quarter comes around. Robots do take time, so the scaling will take time, but I think it’ll be certainly much faster than the initial people who came in with robotics, they know, they benefit from it, and they know and they can trust the MAKO brand.
Yes, I think it’s largely in the rearview mirror. There’s still niggling things here and there, but it’s gotten very quiet. You saw that in Q4. It’s just a boomer of a Q4. And kind of the normal seasonality, I think we now have finally a normalized year for you to compare is, of course, adjusted for selling days, but there is a normalized year finally. And yes, they’ve gotten their staffing issues solved largely, and they do prioritize orthopedics, because orthopedics is a moneymaker for hospitals, right? Cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures are two money makers.
And so if they are short staffed, they are going to prioritize staffing for orthopedics. I would say the only area that still has a lot of room to run is ASCs. So every hospital is constructing ASCs, and that’s going to continue to be an engine of future growth. But I’d say we’re in a very normalized environment. They have the capacity. They can operate additional days, which we saw some of that in Q4 again, which we hadn’t seen for a couple of years. So, I think the hospitals are absolutely ready now, and a lot of that’s behind us.
Yes, frankly, I would say it’s rare to have one MAKO in a hospital now. There are some that have five, six, seven MAKOs. I think 60% of our knees are going to MAKOs. There’s got to be a lot of MAKOs to be able to drive that kind of volume. So the days of people saying, well, this is my first MAKO, those days in the U.S. are kind of fading. That phenomenon still exists outside the U.S.
Yes. Look, we continue to like the neuromuscular market, as there’s still a large number of patients that are being treated. It’s an attractive market growing high single digits. And we do expect to grow in line, at least in line with the market. We are obviously very hard hit by China this year with the VBP. We had a very big neurovascular business in China. So that hurt. I don’t know that we completely lapped it, but it’s going to – we’re going to get to the bottom of China pretty soon, and then that will be behind us.
We also have the Cerus acquisition, which is off to a very good start outside the United States. We are seeking U.S. approval, I believe. That will be some time in 2025, maybe beginning of 2026. So we still have a bit of time to wait for that, but that is a fabulous product for intrasecular technology. We are looking at an area like liquid embolic. We don’t have that product, as you want to think about one that we we’re going to be looking into. Every business has something they’d like to add. But we do have a good pipeline. We don’t talk about neurovascular pipeline too much because they get subject to regulatory approval through the PMA process.
So – but the team does have some very good products that are lining up. And I do believe we’re going to be back to kind of much closer market growth, slightly above market growth in the years ahead. But as the market we continue to like, it obviously has gotten much more competitive on the ischemic side, and we continue to have a very strong business on the hemorrhagic side. We launched a couple of products last year, the Vector 46 catheter, the Tetra [ph] coil and that kind of fueled some very good U.S. growth as you saw in the back half of the year.
So we like the business. Yes, it’s not as fast growing as it was historically, but it’s still a very good business. We’re committed to it and do expect that that will pick up as we put VBP in the rearview mirror.
Yes. Thanks, Danielle. Look, we've always talked about outgrowing the market, let's call it around numbers, 300 basis points ahead of the market. And in the past, there was time when hips weren't quite growing that fast until we launched Insignia stem. But if you go back over the last decade, we have been growing roughly 300 basis points faster than market. So if the market moves up, then our numbers move up as well. And I think you've seen that all year, this year, as you've seen in the last couple of years. So that's kind of the way I'd look at it is whatever the market grows, we should be roughly 300 basis points faster because we have this huge lead in robotic-assisted surgery, as well as cementless, and we just have a team that's firing on all cylinders.
Yes. Hey, Matt. Look, I can't get too specific with you, the nature of M&A. M&A is fluid and the deals have to make sense financially. You have to have the buyer that's ready to sell when you want to acquire. I think because of the pent-up demand in the businesses, we have a lot of mouths to feed and they're hungry. And so I would think in, let's say, at least the first half of the year, it'll probably be more of tucking things in that because we've been staying close to these companies and we have a bunch of deals that are teed up. But then once you get through the first half of the year, I think it becomes open field. And then open field means maybe more tuck ins, but it means maybe more things that are in the adjacency categories. We're always open to those, but a lot of things have to, stars have to align in order to be able to do those deals. But we're back on the normal Stryker offense.
And again, what does that mean? It means most of the deals by number are going to be those tuck-in deals, but things like Vocera and neurovascular and those types of Physio-Control, those kinds of deals are going to pop up that are more in the adjacent categories. But I can't predict this honestly, because I don't know what's going to happen. But we are out hunting and we are excited to get back to a more regular M&A. It's been a huge part of our offense. We know how to do this. We've gotten really good acumen around evaluations and around integrations, which early in my tenure, we weren't so good at integrations. And if I look at Wright Medical, it's just been a role model for how to integrate a complex business, and the results have been stellar [ph].
Yes, thanks, Matt. Okay. I could spend a long time on this, but I'll just sort of cut to the chase and say that, look, things are continuing to progress in the ASC. We're now running between 12% to 15% of our hips and knees in the ASC. That's higher, certainly, than it was last year. So it continues to climb at a gradual rate because the rate limiting factor is capacity and the buildouts of these ASCs, but it is definitely continuing a steady climb. We have everything we need for orthopedic ASCs, and when I say everything, I mean booms, lights, power tools, Steri-Shield, Neptune waste management, operating table, every implant from foot and ankle to shoulder to hips to knees to spine.
And I'm going to include spine in that because we just most recently did a really terrific ASC deal in spine. A lot of spine procedures are moving to the ASC. We did this in Duluth, Minnesota, which is a really exciting deal. And we were able to leverage spine in addition to a lot of other capital equipment in the ASC. And so those new builds and big renovations, we are absolutely beautifully positioned. What we're now looking at, now that we're a little bit in the GI space with Neptune and the POM acquisition that we have is, what else can we do in that space and other things we could add in that space.
Now, I'm not saying that's specifically about ASC. It's about how we are. We like to be really busy in a call point, and now that we're in the GI call point, what every call point we go into, we say, what else can we bring to that call point? What other value can we bring? I'm not predicting that we'll do something in that space, but that's kind of how we look at it. But as it relates to the orthopedic ASC, we are in an incredibly good position to be able to win in the ASC market.
Yes, I tell you. Listen, our performance thus far has really nothing to do with the disruption of the consolidation. It's just starting. We've just started to hear some disruption in Texas as an example and a couple of other little spots. So I would say very early days of disruption, and that's not the reason why we're doing better. We've kind of really improved our offense in spine, especially as it relates to enabling tech. I think the Q guidance was a big shot in the arm for the spine business. They've done a terrific job selling that and, of course, leveraging that for implants. That's been more of a factor than disruption. I think we're going to see the disruption starting this year, and hopefully we'll be able to pick up on that. But thus far, there really hasn't been much in the way of disruption, and we're going to see that play out over the course of this year.
Yes, just – look, there's a whole series of outcomes, just to simplify it, it makes a very hard procedure very easy to do. That's the way I would simplify it. Why was the partial knee so wildly successful? It was a hard procedure to do and the robot made it easy. And the shoulder is harder to do than a partial knee, and it's going to make a very hard procedure very easy to do. Take stress off the surgeon, have very predictable results. That's been the value profit. There are surgeons I talk to you now that due to high volume of knees that tell me at the end of the day, I'm not tired anymore. This robot is taking away my stress. It's just making life easier for me, and you can multiply that by 10 for shoulder replacements.
Yes. And so keep in mind that 3 is not necessarily an upper limit, right? So that's a normal landing zone for us, this 2.5 to 3 for the right deal at the right price. Could we go higher than 3? Sure, we would. And we have obviously have to commit to paying down the debt. But we don't really look at us as sort of being constrained that way. So for the right asset, if it's going to be value-creating for Stryker, we are not afraid to push beyond the 3, but that's kind of the land we like to live in as a landing zone.
I am so glad you asked about sports. It's absolutely a rocket ship of growth for us for the past five, six, seven years. They have a number of shoulder launches coming out this year, I believe, four different shoulder launches. They call it internally this shoulder , which is quite motivating. But we've done a terrific job with hip. We've had a terrific job with knee, but shoulder has been kind of the area that we've needed to have new products.
But they've been just an amazing business. It was a startup 12 years ago, and it just become a big, fast-growing business. It's really helped us win ASC deals. Frankly, having a really every ASC deal is orthopedic, ASC deal involves sports, and because we have such a strong portfolio we are able to win those deals. But historically, we wouldn't have been able to, and it's an incredibly exciting year of new product launches, particularly in shoulder. And I think some of those hopefully might be shown in AAOS, I'll have to get back to you on that.
But I'm very bullish. We have a fabulous leader who's been leading the sports medicine business since the start-up when we had just a camera and not really much in the way of implants. And we are now formidable in sport medicine. Certainly in the U.S., certainly in Europe, we still have work to do in the emerging markets in Asia Pacific, but really a fabulous business. And it's been part of the growth engine within Endoscopy. And you've seen Endoscopy post pretty impressive results, certainly last year and this year.
Yes, sure. So as it relates to soft tissue robotics, listen, it's a very interesting space. As you know, there's a very large and very successful company that kind of dominates the space. We certainly don't have a problem selling Endoscopy, if you look at our numbers. Certainly, for our 1788 and our cameras we're doing extremely well. We still have huge room for growth outside of being in soft tissue robotics. It's an area that we're certainly interested in, but very respectful of the large incumbent. And I'm not sure that we'd want to try to take them head on, just like anybody trying to come and take us head on in our space wouldn't be so easy.
But it is an area that we like, there are loads and loads of companies, start-ups in the space, and we're looking at them. And it's not inconceivable that we would make a move at some point. But again, not expecting to come out and launch something that would go head-to-head with the Goliath and try to take them down. So, but it is a space we're pursuing, we're interested. We're looking at companies, and it's not impossible that we would make a move at some point in the future. It's just not an easy space. As you know, robots are hard. And we're going to be very thoughtful and very careful. But we don't see this kind of – at this point anyways, as a major threat to our Endoscopy business at all.
I mean, first of all, it's heavily dependent on sort of the mix that we get if we over deliver on sales in terms of how much margin we can get to. I would say that 200 basis points expansion is the absolute goal, and that will be the target. And we get there a little sooner, so be it. But we won't take our – our eye off of making sure that we're doing what's right in the business so that we can deliver that 200 basis points.
Yes. Great. Listen, I – integrations are challenging. In this one, we had some challenges with the cloud. We had to restructure the sales force. We are already seeing terrific integration with both beds and now more recently with our wireless stretcher. We had – they had a list before we bought the company, and we've expanded that list of connecting products and those products that we're going to connect to the ecosystem are not just Stryker products. So there are third-party companies that are coming to us and asking to be connected to our ecosystem.
So we want to be a vital resource within hospitals. We're even looking at emergency departments that don't have really well automated workflow that actually do the documentation that take cognitive load off of nurses. So the potential every day, it just keeps expanding and expanding it. So it's wildly exciting. And the team now – the new sales team is really, really pick up in a big way.
And so we're super excited. We're not ready – ready to talk about which products we'll be integrating. We'd rather do the integration and tell you about it. And we'd like to sort of give you a full year update. So a year from now, I expect we'll give you kind of a wholesome update and include more of those products that will be attached to the ecosystem. But we are really, really excited about this acquisition. It's a platform.
So I'd say after MAKO, this is the second platform acquisition that I've done during my tenure. The other deals we've done, none of them were platforms. And that means it has wild upside potential over time. Now it's not going to happen overnight. It's going to take time. But this is – for us is – it will be very sticky in hospitals. It will just be a renewal, recurring revenue. And then as you add more and more to the ecosystem; it becomes something that hospitals can't live without. So that's our dream, and we're pretty optimistic given where we are right now, given the momentum that we have, given the interest that we have, both from parts of Stryker as well as third-party companies wanting to integrate to the system.
Yes. Thanks, Rich. Thanks for the question. Look, I think back to 2017, 2018, 2019, we were expanding margins before some dilution. We have around 80 basis points. And we were not growing at this kind of growth rate, right? We were growing in the 6s and 7s organically, not double-digit growth organically or high single-digit growth organically.
So with that higher growth, this is not a crazy level of margin expansion that we think we could do. But doing small deals. And if they're small tuck-in varieties, there's some dilution that will come with that. We expect we're going to eat that and be able to deliver the 200 basis points. If a deal came along, let's say, something like a MAKO, which, as you know, occurs once a decade, maybe. It's not an everyday occurrence. That had dilution, but we felt it was just so great for the company that we had to do it. We would go ahead and do it. And then we would look at our numbers and say, is this something we can absorb or isn't it?
Our going-in assumption is that that's not a likely occurrence. It's not impossible though. And I never want to rule anything out when it comes to M&A. If something really delicious appears and we think that this is going to be great for our future, we're going to go ahead and do it, and then we'll do our math and figure out can we get there with the 200 basis points. But in the normal cadence of operations of Stryker – and that means doing a number of deals that have a little bit of dilution here or there – we're going to eat it and we'll deliver our 200 basis points. If something bigger happens like a MAKO, as you know, was very dilutive but has proven to be a pretty terrific asset for our company, we're not going to say, well, we're going to wait two years and then we'll do it later. We're going to go ahead and do it.
But again, I don't see that on the horizon. It's not obvious to me. But I'd never want to rule that out. It would be foolish, frankly, to be beholden to a certain financial target and pass up what could be very value creating for our company. But again, it's not our current frame of mind, not our current thought process. But I don't want to rule out that that could be a possibility.
Thank you all for joining our call. As you can see, we have terrific momentum as we finish the year. We're excited about 2024, and we look forward to sharing our first quarter results with you in April. Thank you.