Christian Ulbrich
Well, we have seen that the interest rates play a very important role. Now the question is, is it the absolute level which we are seeing, or was it the very quick spike in interest rates and also in margins. And therefore, I think is a very steady environment. The market were to expect no interest rate cuts, but also no increases that will obviously dampen the overall transaction volume, but it wouldn't fall below 2023 levels, I would guess it would still be slightly above.
And if the market is seeing those interest rate declines, those cuts over the course of the year, over and above what is now included in the predictions that could add another 5% to 10% of volume from that part onwards, so not for the whole year, but when that is happening. And so our own expectations are that we will have a pretty cautious trading environment in the first 2 quarters, but we expect it to lighten up in the second half of the year, as we already stated a couple of times in this call.
Listen, we have a very clear expectations what type of talent we want to have on our platform. And we are pretty good in attracting those people to our platform. And so the market for the type of talent we are looking for is still incredibly tight, I don't see any major impact of the context you are stating here.
Well, first of all, as you know, we have been quite hesitant to enter the M&A market over the last couple of years because we thought that pricing was too high and that it is better value for our shareholders if we reduce our leverage and buy back shares as we have done over the last year. Now what we are currently seeing is that M&A pricing has come down a fair bit. And so we have been consistently evaluating deals. And as we continue to do so, we are now seeing more and more opportunities, which we find more interesting than in the past. And usually, those are in areas where it offers us the opportunity to bring in several of our different services, which we are providing to clients so that it is not only touching one business line, but that is also across various business lines. That's the biggest asset we have at JLL; our One JLL approach, we are selling various services to the same clients is something which drives a lot of our top line growth.
It is not helpful. We are still seeing a growing client interest to transact. It's always the question when is the right moment to get out into the market. So our teams are incredibly busy advising our clients, and we would have preferred that we haven't seen that recent uptick, but it doesn't take anything away what we already said on the call about our outlook for the year.