Donald Macpherson
Donald Macpherson
WW Grainger, Inc. (GWW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
You've tracked that. I think you tracked that correctly. The only other thing I would add is that when we -- during the Investor Day when we said 40%, I think we probably knew that there was -- the supply chain efficiencies is a big bucket. We probably knew that there was a lot of inefficiency. I think we probably maybe have been surprised at how much in efficiency and as we've gotten back to normal, that's been a big a big tailwind for us. And so we probably -- if we had known, it was just difficult to see all that. We probably would have had a higher number of back then as well.
Yes. And I appreciate the question. In terms of returning to near normal service, I would say everything that we directly control is back to normal in terms of our own internal cycle times transportation is back to normal. There's still some elongated supplier lead times, which is the reason we're still probably a little shy of where we were. But from a competitive standpoint, that's all that really matters is a competitive standpoint, we're doing quite well.
In terms of the investments we're making, we're filling in gaps where we've grown to the point where having buildings in those locations make sense. And they make sense not only to improve service, but to improve cost in some perspective. So if you think about the Northwest. Most of our product today comes out of California has to clear the mountains and get in there and that's a long haul. We now have enough volume to be able to improve the service dramatically in the Northwest and actually lower transportation cost pretty substantially. So we look at all those factors, service and cost and when we make these decisions, but we're very confident in what we've outlined and announced so far that those are the right things to do for the health of the business.
I mean I'll start and Dee, if you want to add in, you can. I think the thing to note is that we tend to look at productivity from a core productivity standpoint. So distribution centers, contact centers, seller productivity, all those levers. And we really see opportunity across the business. And I think we're going to see really nice core productivity this year. The headwinds are more around the growth investments, which we think are absolutely the right thing to do, they're high return growth investments. But we are spending more money in marketing and we're investing in the sales force. And so those things make it -- the headline number looked a little more challenging. And it's a time in place when we are investing in those things and believe that's the right thing to do. But we're going to continue to get core productivity. It's an evergreen initiative for us to look everywhere in the business. And I think we've got a whole bunch of things teed up to improve the productivity of the core business.
It's a mix. It's a mix. And I think it just practically, if you thought about it, we're a lot bigger than 2019. There was almost no way to actually build buildings productively during the pandemic, you couldn't get things going. And so we were a little bit behind. We talked about that in 2022. So a part of it is catch-up but a part of it is planning for the future growth as well. And I would say the square footage isn't exactly capacity because the bulk warehouse portion of those is lower cost and doesn't quite give you as much capacity as does the other buildings, but certainly, Houston and Portland are added capacity similar to the other capacity of the number.
Yes. I mean first and foremost, I would reiterate that we are an organic growth company, and that's where we are focused on most of our energy. We get a lot of looks at things and opportunities. I would say that we get 2 types of looks of the distributors, which probably haven't been as interesting to us. And then there are some potential technology investments and things that might be more interesting to us. So we continue to look at a wide range of opportunities in areas that we think are really important to the success of the business, particularly some specific domains that we think we need to be really good at going forward, and we might invest in those areas. But as I said, we are primarily an organic growth company at this point.
Yes. So without getting overly detailed, I would say that the demand generation investments are typically SG&A investments, so marketing and seller ads or SG&A investments. Whereas a lot of the capacity investments we're making in productivity investments or AI investments or technology investments, most of this showing capital, some shows up in expense for sure. But if you think about -- when we talk about spending $450 million, $550 million in capital, the vast majority of that comes from supply chain investments and capacity increases and in technology. And so I would think of it in those terms. And technology is building capabilities and advantage in information assets and supporting the growth initiatives in the core business as well versus marketing to our more direct spend that go into demand generation.
Yes, it talked about it. Yes, we do expect to get SG&A leverage over time, and we are probably making more incremental investments in this year than others. Yes. So that is probably true. We're also -- just I would just point out, in a fairly flat price environment, that SG&A is -- its more difficult to get SG&A leverage as well. So there's a number of factors going on. Dee, do you have any?
Yes. And the other thing I'd add to that is that both in marketing and seller coverage, we are very well measured. So we are -- everything is tested. We don't make the investments lightly. We know exactly what returns are getting. So if they're a positive return, we will make them even if in the year, they might slow down our SG&A leverage because it is the right thing to do for the overall profitability of the business.
Yes, sure. So I can take the -- I mean, I can try to take both of them. I guess the first one, I think there were two factors that made January slow start. One was that most of the schools were shut, which slowed some activity in the first week of January, which last year schools opened in midweek. And we noticed that and we noticed that in some of the schools we serve as well as just the broader economy. And then obviously, the cold weather week. What I would say is that the last 2 weeks of January were very normal for us. And so while there was some slowness, it wasn't -- in the course of the quarter, it will be very, very small in terms of the impact, but noticeable in a month, of course, because it's many weeks, but it's not huge in the grand scheme of things, it's just noise. And so we don't -- we won't focus too much on that.
I think any forecast for the MRO market any year, I think you could argue could be risk to the upside or downside, I don't know. This is our current forecast, and we have economists internally and external that we look at, and this is the forecast they have right now. So that's what we're going with. But that too will always change and it will never be right until we know that. So again, we want to over-index on the forecast.
Yes. So I think what I would say there is that, obviously, as the B2C and B2C like volume shrinks, it becomes less of an impact on the rest of the business and our business customer activity has actually been reasonably healthy through the entire quarter. We do expect some of the decline to be less impactful in the back half of the year. So we should have less drag in the back half of the year than we have in the first half of the year from the decline B2C lifeline.
So on the Red Sea, we don't have much volume going through that -- those lanes. Most of our shipping volume comes out of Asia through to the West Coast and then as railed to our network. And so that has not been impacted. So we've really seen nothing there. Could you repeat the second half of your question?
Yes. I mean much of our freight, most of our freight actually goes into our gross profit line, but we -- our forecasts haven't changed much given the activity we've seen, given the lines we're in. Certainly, things like fuel increases can have an impact and who knows how that's going to play out. But right now, we're actually still in a favorable position relative to a year ago -- certainly on ocean freight at this point. So we expect that to continue through the first part of the year, and then we'll see what happens.
Yes, it's probably more of a 25% -- so to be clear, MonotaRO this year, we'll be hitting that already, we think it's low double-digit low teens. So that will be close to that for the year. And then Zoro will start the year lower than that, and we expect them to get a bit better as the year goes along. We probably won't get there by this year, but that would be more in out years, we think that's the target.
Just to add to that, I think the practical reality was that if you think back to 2022, we took a budget price midyear that from a 2023 Q1 to 2022 Q1 comparison made 2023 have very high price increases relative to the year before because we took them in the middle of the year and those -- so it wasn't all taken January 1 last year, but all the inflation run up in 2022 made last year look a little unusual from a first quarter price increase.
Yes. I think it was basically neutral. We did have -- you're right, midsize customers did grow faster than the largest customers. Overall, it was not a meaningful impact, as I understand it.
Dee and I are in different rooms, so she's sequestered. So we're looking at each other through a camera here.
All right. Sorry, we're a few minutes over. Thanks for joining the call. What I would say is that and we're certainly proud of the results we had in 2023. We are very focused on continuing to drive forward and create value for our customers in 2024 and a lot of that is really the same despite the more muted growth in the market that a lot of that's just a continuation of driving forward the initiatives that matter, both from a growth perspective and a productivity perspective. And we remain very positive about the outlook and our ability to gain share profitably for years to come. So thanks for the time. Hope you all have a great weekend. Take care.