James C
James C. Fish
Waste Management, Inc. (WM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, Bryan, a couple of standouts really were continues to be residential pricing and disposal pricing, those actually showed increases year-over-year. Not surprisingly, the other collection lines of business were down, but that wasn't unexpected. As we move into ‘24, we think that kind of 4.5% to 5% yield number is a good target for us. And pricing continues to be a strength. We said at the beginning of ‘23 that our focus areas for the year would be pricing and then the cost controls that, John, went through.
So, pricing is going to continue to at least add a little bit of margin for us. We think as opposed to ‘22 where we I've said several times we kind of felt like we were in hand-to-hand combat with our cost structure.
So, Jerry, real quickly, we did kind of anticipate that there will be some questions on margin. And so, just a couple of things here. First of all, the margin obviously for Q4 was as strong as we could have expected it and to be and that has continued as we look at the month of January. January came in quite strong for us, so we're pleased with that. The second point would be around some of the questions that you're asking around conservatism on margin for ‘24 and Devina did a really good job of explaining that.
I think it's really just I guess you could argue that it's conservative based on 90 basis points of improvement from 2022 to 2023. But there seems to be an uncertain year in front of us every time we come to this point. We don't know exactly what the economy is going to do. Some days I feel great about the economy, other day is not so great.
So, you could argue there's a little bit of economic conservatism in there and also a little bit of forecasting conservatism coming off such a strong year that you want to try and say we're going to do the same thing going forward into ‘24. But we do feel really good about the way we finished the year and honestly the way we've started the year so far through January.
So, I'm going I'll say one word on that and then I'm going to turn it over to Tara Hemmer to maybe give a little bit more color. But, that's always an option for us. And we have multiple options and it's good to be in a place where you have multiple options. But at this point, we're pleased with the progress we're making on building these plants. We have a number of plants that are at various stages of construction. Tara, anything to add to that?
I think Tyler, a little bit of an add on here is that I've been told we don't pat ourselves on the back enough, so I'm going to pat ourselves on the back a little bit here. When we started talking about some aspirational metrics, meaning margin, EBITDA margin, SG&A as percent of revenue, OpEx as percent a couple of years ago and then talking about technology and using attrition to reduce our labor dependence. Those numbers were pretty far out on the horizon. And, now in every case those numbers are literally a stone's throw away for us. Whether you talk about 30% EBITDA margin, we're right there for the fourth quarter, SG&A at 9%, we're very close to that and OpEx at 60%, very close to that.
So, I'm really proud of the team for executing so well on this and being able to stand up on this call today and last quarter as well and say those things that we put out there, those goals that we set, we're getting close to achieving those. That means we're satisfied. We'll continue to set higher goals, but I'm pleased with the fact that we've been able to get to those goals that were pretty far in the out on the horizon we initially set them.
You bet.
And John, those supply chain constraints are not that different from what we've seen on the fleet side of our business either. The good news is that as you heard, John Morris, talk about it, we started to see that free up a bit and so Tara seeing the same thing on the RNG and recycling side, but we definitely had some supply chain constraints that contributed to this bit of a slowdown over 2022 in particular, but also the front half of 2023.
So, look, we said that our acquisition pipeline was robust. I think what you're seeing is that some of those, and I'm speaking just from this is somewhat anecdotal and speaking to some of those folks that we have acquired, is that, there's kind of a multitude of challenges for them, some of which we face and some of which we don't face. So, one that we might not face is a lack of a succession plan for some of these folks. Their kids have just decided they don't want to run the business. They'd rather go take the money and live in Italy. And so, that's not something we face fortunately, but they're also having challenges with labor.
We're addressing that as you've heard today through automation and in some cases they are as well, in some cases they're not able to do that. So, there's a number of different reasons why there's a growing list of willing sellers. We're going to take advantage of that. But at the same time, we've invested heavily in these organic growth projects, and we want to make sure that we have similar returns before we go invest heavily in tuck-ins.
Yes. Tobey, we got about, we've delivered about 1,700 units this year, which was a little light of what we had planned for, but that would be really considered a full lot. And we probably have another 300 units on top of that to deliver. So, I would say that by the end of ‘24, we're fully caught up. What I would tell you is, team has done a really good job of not compromising the quality of our fleet had shown up in our service and it's really starting to show up in the back half of the year in terms of our operating performance and we see that continuing into ‘24, and certainly as we get the benefit of some additional vehicles.
Yes. I mean, we've been in hazardous waste space for quite some time and it continues to be a valuable component of our portfolio. And we've got coverage nationally. We've got assets on the East Coast and then obviously to the South East and on the West Coast as well. And, I would tell you, we continue to look for opportunities to grow that business.
I think one of the benefits we have is, we've got a tremendous network of transportation assets that allows us to access a lot of the prominent markets, I think the Southeast, the Gulf Coast is one where we are very, very well-positioned, in terms of our hazardous waste presence.
Well, I think you've hit on the right focal point for us which is that price cost spread as opposed to just looking at price because obviously, in ‘22, price was higher. But as I said, we were really just combating this real high inflation in ‘22. ‘23 was as you said back to a point where the price cost spread starts to widen a bit. And so how much that widens is a little bit of a question mark. We don't know exactly where inflation goes. This morning's numbers were maybe a little disappointing to the market. But we feel good about the wage inflation. We feel like that is much more kind of something we have control of now, whereas two years ago, we really had less control over it.
I think you'll see the price cost spread stay pretty close to where it's been in 2023. 2024 won't be a big change from that standpoint.
Okay. Well, thank you all for joining us. We're very proud of the quarter we had, very proud of the year, excited about what 2024 holds for us, and we look forward to talking to you next quarter. Thank you very much.