John Ketchum
And Shahr, this is John, just adding on to that again, on the repowers. Just like we do at the, I mean, just think about it as tax equity and project finance.
And again, the private capital raises provide us with a number of options, but we're looking at a lot of different alternatives, that being one of them.
Yes, thanks for the question, Shahr. So let me just take those in order. First of all, there's no update. We have not been contacted by the FEC. And I think just to remind investors of the timing, first of all, these are just guidelines I'm going to give you. I mean, there is no prescribed timeline in terms of the FEC providing a response to us.
But as you may recall, we originally received the FEC complaint, I guess is what you would call it, that had been filed by a group called CREW back in November of 2022. And if you follow the historical precedent of the FEC, it's usually 12 to 18 months after you first are notified of a complaint having been filed, that you would learn whether or not the FEC decides to find that there's reason to believe that they ought to conduct an investigation. We have not heard anything from the FEC in that regard.
The second thing I would remind investors of is this is not material. Again, these were five allegations totaling political contributions of roughly $1.3 million to $1.5 million. So we're talking about smaller dollar amounts and how and when we would update investors would depend on what exactly we hear from the FEC.
Sure, Steve. Let me go ahead and take that, this is John. First of all in the 21 years I've been at the company, as we've changed administrations and we've seen changes in Congress, we've never seen a change or appeal of tax credits. No matter what form they've taken, IRA is the form we're talking about here. So that's the first point I would make.
Second, it's really hard to overturn existing law. I think Obamacare is a very good example of that. It's just very difficult no matter what the political wins are.
The third point I would make is that the IRA benefits both sides of the aisle. It certainly is advantageous for obvious reasons for Democrats, but it also has a big benefit to Republicans. Because if you think about where the investments are being made around IRA and where a lot of the benefit of IRA is flowing, it's flowing to Republican states and it's flowing to parts of those states that are really difficult to stimulate economically. And we're talking about rural communities in these states.
And so when we come in and we build a wind project, we build a solar project, we build a battery storage project, it's a complete turnaround for these communities. We're providing an economic base in the form of jobs. We're providing an economic base in the form of spending that occurs in that community. We're providing an economic base in the form of property taxes and sales tax revenues.
These are 180s for these rural communities and make a huge difference on their viability going forward. Just think about hospitals and staffing doctors at county hospitals or teach -- paying teacher salaries. I mean, the property tax revenues have significant benefits. And so for those reasons, we've always been able to work with both sides of the aisle. So see any repeal of IRAs being unlikely.