Albert Chao
Albert Chao
Westlake Corporation (WLK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Of those -- yeah, I was going to add, some of those cost savings, as a result of the rationalization we've done in '23, we see the benefit in '24.
You’re welcome.
Yeah. Every dollar of gas price dropped 1,000 cubic feet is well over $100 million of benefit. And it's to say not only that our energy costs going down, but when natural gas prices going down, ethane price going down, so our ethylene manufacturing cost has come down a lot.
Correct. Yep.
Thank you.
Yeah. PEM business, there are several in polyethylene PVC price announcements, and we got a $0.05 upon price increase in polyethylene in January and further price announcements we made, and the price announcement made in PVC as well. So as you know, also, the springtime is a construction period. And with warm weather, a lot of activities are going on. And as we said, we are seeing momentum with HIP our customers operating orders so the momentum in the fourth quarter is carrying to the first quarter.
Yeah. Thank you. Some of the consultant study, that fourth quarter operating rates chlor-alkali in the US is about 76%. And people are projecting -- well, it's down from 82% in third quarter, but people are projecting 2024 chlor-alkali running rates in the high 70s. So we are seeing some improvement. I think about half of the chlorine will go to PVC. So the PVC really drives the running rates for chlor-alkali running rates.
And we are seeing that -- maybe partially because of the Suez Canal, freight rates and everything else is that the import is reducing volume. And as a result, also European liquid epoxy resin prices start moving up.
Yes, thank you very much. So I wanted to come back to epoxies and I'm trying to see if you can a help me quantify what has been the impact versus when you gave some numbers a couple of years ago with your major acquisition? How much of that earnings power has been lost here? And also, what's kind of your view for epoxy earnings, either quantitatively or at least directionally in 2024 versus 2023? And also, are you seeing kind of an epoxy upward price pressure that some trade vouchers are reporting in Europe?
Okay. And if I may ask a little bit on the HIP guidance for 2024. I know that in your adjusted EBITDA, you’ve not actually got some of the restructuring items such as the $20 million you incurred in Q4. I'm wondering, do you have any substantial restructuring charges baked in the 20% EBITDA margin for 2024?
Yeah, it's a good question. We have smart engineers. They always find ways to improve in debottleneck, and sometimes the debottleneck can be a bit more than the debottleneck. So we're currently looking at what opportunities we have, what the cost, what the benefit, depending on the cycle or part of the cycle, whether it's a good time to expand now, expand a bit later. That happens in PEM and also in HIP, we're looking at -- some of the rationalization is we have moved equipment from one region that's a slower growth to a region that's higher growth. So we are doing all the stuff to optimize our footprint in the HIP side as well.
Yeah, that's a good question. We constantly look at the productivity and cost position of our plans and where necessary, we should take actions. But one thing is that, as you have heard from our discussions, Westlake benefits from the integration from chlor-alkali to PVC to the HIP businesses. And those integration really helps to, as we said, when the upstream is better, we benefit from upstream and we can take the part as a downstream and vice versa. When downstream's better, we take benefit from downstream, we still keep our upstream running. So those interactions are different from some other competitors of ours. And we're able -- by looking at the whole totality, not just at a unit by itself.
Yeah. Our fourth quarter -- usually demand is lower in the PVC side, we export more than the third quarter. As a result, the average sales price has come down. But I think the ACC reported that PVC exports is about 37% in January. And I think 35% to 40% is the range that PVC industries been exporting.
You’re welcome.
Yeah. That's a good question. Yes, we are seeing more ideas -- deals on banks, even though the deal flows have not really picked up, we've seen some industry announcements of people buying assets or companies in the HIP business. And suddenly, for Westlake, we'll look at both sides, what makes the best economic return for Westlake through our synergies. So whether it's in PEM side or HIP side, we constantly look at deals and on a global basis, not just in the US, and when you add economic value to us, we'll take a hard look at those deals.
Yeah. I think we believe capacity additions is really not that great. People talk about China, especially with the carbide process being on the moratorium of new build and there's some ethylene-based PVC plants starting in China, but the cost is a lot higher from either on produced ethylene or imported EDC. So I think global demand, that's the key question. And some of this is political macroeconomic related. And the other one, interest rate related. So we are blessed that the US has, by far, the lowest cost position from low-cost ethane, ethylene and low-cost power to make chlor-alkali. So we're able to export, as we mentioned in our talk earlier, they're able to capture any opportunities that comes up for export. If the US demand is out there, or not enough. So that's why we mentioned, in the fourth quarter, we did more export than second and third quarter, and we can still capture good cash contributions.
You’re welcome.
Yes. I would think combination of caustic and as well as some PVC price drop. But you're right, I think caustic -- last year, they dropped materially over, I think, $300 for the whole year last year. Every month, it dropped except, I think, in January or February now, we are seeing the first price increase. I think looking at -- according to CMA reported $5 a term price increase in February, and that's the first time for 14 months, that caustic price has not dropped, actually went up.
Yes. Talking about PEM customers or HIP customers?
Yeah. I think as you can tell, when prices come -- came down and demand came down last year, customers tend to be -- have low inventory levels and they order -- only order when they need products. And so over year-end, also they don't need to carry inventories. So as we come into January, February of this year, customers are starting to order to their demand. And so we are seeing the order going up. But I think inventory is still -- customer is very cautious they are still keeping relatively low to medium levels of inventory. And that's true also for the HIP side. And -- but as you know, this is the good material construction starting -- usually starting from March is the season people start increasing construction. And with the warmer weather, people stopped it earlier. So I think they are just ordering to meet the demand, make sure they have good -- they have the products because if you miss one item, the house is not complete. So they want to make sure they have all the items delivered to the site, that they he can put a house together relatively quickly.
You’re welcome
Yes. I think supply-demand has improved. I think we see some pulp and paper plants are running harder and they're ordering caustic and chlorine. Now, as I mentioned earlier, the CMA's forecast for operating rates for chlor-alkali in the US are running in the high 70s, which is okay, but not great. So this is their forecast now, things could change. But I think also, export prices started moving up. And again, the consultants, CMA looking at $5 increase in February and April is $10 and May is $5. Now, the industry that we have announced the price increase and other companies announced pricing increase more than what CMA has announced. And time will tell how much of our industry announcement will get put in place, but it's a substantially higher price increase announced by the industry.
You’re welcome.
Well, the -- according to CMA, fourth quarter last year 2023, caustic price domestically dropped by $60 a ton. And I said earlier, CMA looking at $5 increase in February and then $10 in April. So…
You’re welcome.
That's a good question. As I said earlier, there are price increase, we have $0.05 a ton price increase achieved in January, and there are price increase announced for February, and one industry participant announced the price increase for March. And so we are seeing some improvements in export price. So we believe that some part of the price increase will go through, but in the first quarter, a lot depending on global economy, supply demand, macroeconomics and also the Red Sea, Suez Canal issues and Panama Canal, when will it be settled or subside issues. So all these have to come into play in terms of our pricing and volumes moving international trade. As you know, in polyethylene, the US exports a large quantity, I think close to about 50% plus or minus of total USP produced is exported. So export is a big component of it. So all these dynamics is difficult to forecast what would happen. But we believe, at least domestically, in the first quarter, things should be better. And we mentioned earlier, that with lower price of natural gas and ethane, the ethane-based production costs should be low if you have polyethylene price increase, the margin should improve.
Proxy is not a big part of the Westlake's business. And we're talking about -- the problem was the Pernis, Netherlands plant epoxy that we have problems with. And you heard also, we are doing substantial cost reduction programs to make the system better and -- but still Asian exports to Europe and is a big issue of keeping prices low. But epoxy as a whole is a small part of Westlake's business.
Yeah. Very good question. And I think a big part was export price. When export prices was high, then the US enjoyed also high domestic price. But export price start to decline pretty sharply, 2023. And so US domestic market has to respond. And we are seeing signs that the export price stabilize and start moving up a little bit. So I think the economics have -- whether it's going to the alumina business or pulp and paper, as we said earlier, we see some sign of improvement and demands increasing international caustic market. There's not a huge amount of capacity added globally. It's really a demand issue, not a supply issue. And hopefully, as economics improves globally and also China's economy improves, we are hearing that the government in China is trying to, again, stimulate its construction business after the New Year's over, only time will tell what kind of initiatives they will have. If the global economy stabilizes and continue to recover and grow and lower interest rate, it will help caustic -- caustic is such a broad industrial chemical, it's used -- it goes into many, many segments of our economy, consumer, industrial, investment, all that. So it's a bellwether of the global economy. And we hope this year, things will bottom out, or last year, bottom out and getting better. So we are optimally cautiously optimistic on caustic market, but a lot of things could happen.
Yeah. I think as I said earlier, China's [ex] (ph) PVC, 80% is on the carbide based, it's not welcomed maybe on South Asia maybe or South Asia, but you don't have carbide PVC going to Europe or go into North America. So -- and there's a moratorium on new build. So really, it's existing demand, existing capacity, that's the problem in China as Chinese infrastructure and residential improves, then the demand PVC will improve. But we've seen last year, Chinese PVC exports, as I said, to South Asia and South Asia. But we are seeing a big slowdown because the Chinese government are trying to really reduce carbon emissions and pollutions and the double control from GDP -- carbon emissions per GDP by cities and province are really -- people are watching carefully. And so we don't expect the Chinese PVC be flooding the market. And then also, still a high cost. Energy is still higher cost in the US.
You're absolutely right. The shipping freight rates, we heard increased by $200 to $300 a ton. That could be even higher. And also delayed route arrival. It's really impacted the global trade. And since we're talking about Asia exports to Europe and some to the US, it has stopped or slowed down a lot of that. And I think that helped also supporting price increase as we said in our remarks, going up.
You’re welcome.