Mike Hsu
Mike Hsu
Kimberly-Clark Corporation (KMB) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Okay. Thank you, Chris.
And first of all, I'd like to just welcome Chris to Kimberly-Clark. This is his first earnings call with us, but it's probably a triple-digit number in earnings calls that he has done in his career. So, welcome to K-C, Chris.
Hey, I'd like to just start by sharing that we're really proud of our performance in 2023, but, of course, we're not yet satisfied. We've built a strong foundation and positioned Kimberly-Clark for our next chapter of growth. These past few years, we've consistently invested to build a consumer-centric organization while navigating unprecedented challenges. Our strategy to elevate our categories and expand our market is working, and we're on an exciting path and positioned to deliver durable growth and returns for shareholders in our next chapter. And as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, we're looking forward to detailing our strategic priorities, our long-term algorithm, and outline the key initiatives behind our plans in March.
And so with that, love to open it up for questions.
Okay. Hey, thanks, Dara. Maybe I'll start with -- maybe as you kind of tee up there, the state of the consumer, particularly in Developed Markets, I'd say, our underlying category growth across Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, and Professional remains pretty robust both in absolute terms, and I think if you look across in relative to other broader staples. Our products -- I'll remind you, our daily essentials in -- unlike some categories, substitution of our categories is fairly low. On top of that, we still have a lot of room for penetration and revenue per user gains, and so we're working on that.
So, overall, I think the consumer right now still remains despite what, you might argue, is a fairly mixed kind of consumer picture, the consumer remains pretty healthy. We're confident in our ability to elevate our categories and expand the markets further. The consumer picture, I said is somewhat mixed. Employment remains strong. Wage growth is up. But I think it's also probably fair to say, from our side that, the full effects of all the rate hikes and all the economic policy impacts are not fully materialized in the consumers.
So that all said, the categories were pretty robust. In North America, just to give you a reference point, North America category value was up six in the fourth quarter and up eight for the year. So that's a pretty solid number. Again, I'll chalk that up to the fact that there's low substitution in our categories. And that makes our categories a lot more resilient than other staples categories that I've worked in the past.
We still also, Dara, see pretty good demand for premium products and we're seeing that in a broad array of markets, including in North America. Surprisingly, you might say in a market like Argentina is still, Brazil, China, of course. And so, we're very enthused about our approach with elevating our categories and expanding our markets and we believe that still working and still appropriate, even though we recognize we've got to be able to offer great value at all price tiers.
So I'll pause there. I know that I threw a lot at you. So, I know there were multiple parts to your question. I don't know, Dara, if you wanted to go. Nelson, if you want to...
We're pretty pleased, Dara. I think we've made very, very solid progress on volume and consumers responded very favorably on our categories. So, I'd say, first of all, our next chapter, which I think we're turning the page and shifting to a volume mix-driven plan, which is returning to that, which -- that was kind of our approach pre-pandemic and so we're going back to that. So, contribution pricing to help offset the record inflation that we've got, it's going to recede and has already started receding.
There might be a need to address some particular higher costs in some markets or locations. But that's going to be pretty surgical, and will likely reflect if there's pricing reflect inflation at local levels. But overall, I think we're feeling very good about driving the volume on our business. We have seen our businesses start to improve, including in North America on a share perspective in the fourth quarter, and believe we have the right mix and growth drivers in our plan to drive the business going forward.
Okay. Thank you, Dara.
Hi, Lauren.
Okay. Hey, Lauren, thanks for the question. Hey, let me start with the overall on the path forward, I will say, hey, we're staying the course, but we're, of course, going to balance potential against the inherent volatility in the business. And so, we're going to remain prudent. I do want to say, I'm really inspired, and we've got people operating in some difficult conditions in Argentina and also other markets. So, as a company, we're really inspired by the impact our employees make in these markets and really proud to shoulder that responsibility of serving our consumers in these difficult conditions.
At the same time, I will say we will not just hang around where conditions become untenable. And then, of course, you would double-click and say, what's untenable. I'll let you know when we see it. But certainly, if we can't make product or if we can't convert currency at some point that becomes somewhat untenable. But right now, we're working our way through it in multiple markets like Argentina, like Ukraine. And so, again, that's the high-level answer on path forward is we're staying the course.
Okay. Thanks, Lauren.
Hey, Jason.
As always, Jason, you're right on the issue. So, a good one. But I think if you look at the margin profile of the business, I think the team has done a great job addressing, I would say the volume softness or volume change in the environment. And a couple different things. One, we had to adjust rapidly to this work-from-home demand environment that kind of came on with the advent of COVID as you might recall. And you may recall our washroom business, which is the majority of our business in K-C Professional tends to be higher development in offices. And so, that's really where the volume has gone up.
I would say right now, that volume on a category basis is running about 80% to 85% of what it was pre-pandemic. And it's not going to bounce back that quickly, the reality is. And I'm not sure you're in your office at Goldman in New York every day. And so that's the same thing. As we look around our offices, we're not fully back in, right? And so, it's partial at best. So that's, I would say, an ongoing challenge in that business. But I think our team has adjusted to that and treated as a reality.
We have rightsized some of the business and some of it was from a cost perspective. The reality is we were doing a lot of volume and co-packing a lot of volume on the external market. And so I'd say, we haven't had to address fixed costs as much as you might have thought of. And so -- and I think that's reflected. So, I think the team has done a good job of recapturing margins from a -- both from a price perspective, mix perspective, and also while growing volumes at the same time behind great innovations like our ICON dispenser, which I believe is really the best dispenser in that side of the business.
So, anyway, so I think the team has done a great job and I think you can see that in the margin and definitely have recovered from pre-'19 margins on that business and actually exceeding at this point.
One could only hope, Jason. We could only hope that. But actually, I think, first of all, a couple of things. Yeah, we did have some pretty significant supply constraints in our North American Consumer business for the majority of last year, definitely through Q3. And that had to do with some supply conditions with external suppliers, for example, on packaging that made availability difficult across Personal Care. Also some in our Kleenex business, I think we've talked about a key ingredient that we weren't able to get access to, that we developed a secondary source to during the course of the year.
So, those were kind of the big factors, I would say. I think we mentioned that on the last quarter call, we didn't make the biggest deal about it. We were working through this challenge with our suppliers, with our customers, and they were fully aware of it. But it's not something that we communicated publicly that often. But I would say for the better part of the year, that did suppress our share performance. I'm not saying that was the only driver, but I think it was a fairly significant driver.
We have addressed those issues. I'd say our commercial execution is going to be stronger than ever. We're really past all these constraints that I talked about. And our consumption is moving in the right direction. Our share has moved in the right direction in the fourth quarter as well in North America.
Okay. Yeah, great question, Anna. Core to our business, I'd say a couple of things. First of all, on market share, I'm confident that our market share performance this year is going to improve from last year. Definitely, I was not happy with our performance on share last year. For perspective, on a weighted basis, which we use as an internal metric, we don't talk about as much publicly, but on a weighted basis, we are down globally about 40 bps, okay? So, not falling off a cliff, but not what we want. So, we want to be growing weighted share as well. On a cohort basis, which is the one we usually talk to you all about, we are up or even and just under 40%. And so that's below our goal of 50% or more, of which I'd say we were kind of jumping over that bar back in 2021. So, I think we are where we are today, what we're going to build from here.
I'd say a couple of things. All that said, probably the biggest challenge has been for us in North America related to the supply constraints that I just talked about. I did want to note. We've had strong gains and really, really strong market positions in most of our largest markets. Just for reference, in South Korea, which is our second largest business, we're up probably about 20 share points over the last five years. And in Australia and New Zealand, we're up somewhere between 10 and 15 share points over the last five years. Andrex, in the quarter, which is our number fifth largest business, was up over 300 bps on share just in the quarter. So, we feel very good -- and one more on China. I think we're approaching almost 300 bps again on the Huggies in the quarter.
So, I think we feel very good about our gains in our largest markets. The exception has been North America, where we have underperformed, but that is improving. A lot of that, I think, was just what I discussed with Jason. We had some severe supply constraints where we weren't able to run our brand plans in the way that we wanted to run last year. We saw solid improvement in Q4. We were up or even in six of eight categories and sequentially improved in five of eight. And so, we feel pretty good about our trajectory. As I said just a while ago, our commercial execution capability has never been better, and we're going to gain share by bringing the right innovations, which our customers are excited about, executing well, and bringing sustainable cost advantage to our business.
You mentioned private label. On the note, I would recognize that, yeah, we have seen an uptick in private label in the past quarter or two. I think, if you look at the scanner data, I think it was up or even in seven of eight categories. I'd say, on private label, we are very, very committed to having a superior value proposition in every price tier that we're in. So, versus 2019, if you look on a longer perspective, private label is down a bit and the premium segment is up significantly. And even today, the premium segment continues to grow. So, it is clear that the value tier has picked up a bit, and our shares were impacted in the second and third quarter, although I would say, more from our supply constraints than private label trading.
I mean, we compete with private label. We're cognizant of that. Our approach, Anna, is to bring the right set of innovations, which we are accelerating and have been accelerating, and our customers are very supportive of it. There are a couple of categories where we have a little more value offering. Scott 1000 is a great value brand, but I think it competes very, very well in its tier and is really, really accepted by consumers. And so, again, we're cognizant that private label is kind of out there, and that in uncertain or tough economic conditions, value becomes much more important to the consumer. And we're committed to having a great value proposition at every tier.
Okay. Thanks, Anna.
Hi, Steve.
Yeah. I'll just -- I'll make a couple of comments and then Nelson maybe can give some additional detail. But look, see, I would say we are running our Consumer Tissue business, some might say externally, a little differently. I look at our Consumer Tissue business and see it as a premier consumer franchise and I'm proud of the strong margin recovery that we've made over a short period of time in this business. To note, I would say, on a volume basis, if you look at North America for the quarter, our organic and tissue was up 3% and the volume was up 2%. I'm very excited about the volume kind of resiliency in that business. I think it reflects the essential nature of the category. As you know, you're not moving away from the bath category, no matter what the condition is. And so, we recognize we have an important kind of responsibility for consumers.
But I think the thing that changed in the past few years, first of all, the amount of inflation that's occurred on our overall business, but especially tissue, has been, not to be dramatic, but fundamentally historic, right? Two years in a row of 2x what the all-time high ever was, right? And so, our teams have done a phenomenal job, I would say, recovering the margins on the business that were necessary to keep that franchise healthy going forward.
A couple other things that we've done to improve our ability to manage the business better is, better risk management tools to get us more stability from costs. And hopefully, you guys are seeing that. We're not talking a lot about that, but with Nelson coming in, we've changed some of our practices. With Tamera, our Chief Supply Officer, coming in, we've changed some of our supply chain practices. And so we're trying to reduce the volatility of the input costs.
I would say if you looked at the margin recovery, the biggest driver is really, really disciplined application of, we call internally, revenue growth management tools. But if we had not made those investments over the past five years, we would not have been able to move at the pace we moved over the last two years on revenue management.
And then, probably the most important thing going forward is the fact that we're driving value-added innovation. And we recognize as a consumer franchise, we have to have a great offering, a superior offering. I mentioned in the UK Andrex, I think we hit about a 33 or 34 share in the quarter. Our price gap has widened over the past three years, but our quality has improved significantly. And we've invested in new technologies in our European tissue business that's allowing us to differentiate that product.
And so, we feel good about our position on tissue. There are some pockets of challenge, some markets can be very tough and we're able to operate in those. But we're really pleased with the kind of rapid recovery of margins and how our teams are managing that business right now.
Okay. Thanks.
Hey, Andrea, great set of questions. Maybe I'll start with the bottom half first, and then Nelson could kind of decomp some of the organic drivers. On the investment, again, my priority would be focused on advertising. I think we get great returns on advertising, both from -- certainly from traditional TV and stuff, but more importantly, the digital, and the returns are very, very high. And so, our focus is there. I mean, we are going to be, I would say, competitive on the promotion front -- on a trade promotion front, but that said, that's not how we're going to drive our business. We do feel like we get great value and we have great creative both on things like Huggies, on U by Kotex, across our business, on Scott 1000 lasts long, and so we got great copy and we're going to invest there.