Lourenco Goncalves
Lourenco Goncalves
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. (CLF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, we had a package. Good morning, Lucas. We had a package that we -- our attorneys at Dave's Hawk were discussing with the attorneys at New Bank, that we believe would be more than sufficient to clear our regulatory hurdles. And that included the commitment to sell pellets to others, the commitment to sell labs to others, other commitments on supply agreements. And we would go all the way to some divestitures up to a level of $2 billion in revenues. That should do it, based on our own homework done with the -- with our knowledge of the DOJ works, the antitrust division of the DOJ works, and our deep experience led by Howard [Indiscernible] of Dave's Hawk.
Unfortunately, we never had a willing partner, even though we were discussing in terms of working together. We never had a willing partner with Milbank. And by the way, for the record, the $7 billion hurdle in revenues was never revealed to us. It was an internal discussion of U.S. It was just an internal discussion. It was never even discussed with us. So if they had brought that to the conversation, we would easily turn it down. So we are very, very confident on what we had done and all the homework we did. We don't get the support we had from the administration, from political eminent, political figures on the left, on the right, on the center, and you know the names. And if I need to say the names to clarify what they have to do it. And that was totally ignored. So you absolutely, you have it what you saw. And at this point, we'll see. Stay put.
[Multiple Speakers] I forgot to talk about synergies. Yes, you know, how we operate with synergies. We usually, we under promise and over deliver. That is what happened with the AK Steel. That's what happened when we acquired Ascometal USA. So at this point, with the U.S. Steel would be more of the same, just in a bigger scale. So that would come from purchasing, that would come from services background, healthcare, renegotiations, all kinds of good stuff in terms of having a bigger footprint and a lot more ability to negotiate out of a much more broad type of footprint.
And very importantly, our synergies were not anticipating that we would shut down any facility and would not be letting go any single union employee, any single worker at the plant of West Steel or Cleveland-Cliffs for that matter. So that would not be cutting jobs, so I'll leave it at that, but we had a robust proposal and they elected to go in a different direction. Good luck, like I said on December 18. Good luck on closing.
Yes, Lucas, I’ll let Celso answer this one. Go ahead, go ahead.
Thanks a lot, Lucas [Multiple Speakers]
Good morning, Timna. Let me start with the futures. The futures are fiction because it's done by desks that guys that if I show them a hot-rolled coil, a cold-rolled coil, galvanized coil, normal spangled, they still cannot differentiate one from the other and you know that. So they can go up and down $200, $250 per ton in a day. And they do that with absolutely no consequences. So that's my opinion on futures.
Basically, you can use that thing to a toilet paper, it’s useless. That's the future. Because we have a few producers of hot rolled in the country. We deal every day with the thing. And we buy, we sell, we transact, we produce. And we know a lot more about the future than the future. So reset yourself, Timna. Unplug yourself from the wall. Plug again, they're going to be okay with pricing going forward. And then you're not going to be talking about steel [Indiscernible] and things like that. Because I see potential in you.
As far as the EBITDA guidance $30 per ton is basically the $500 million of the big data that you are talking about. If you multiply $30 bucks by 16.5 million tons of shipments, you get to 495. So I'm rounding up to 500. That's the number.
Timna, people like me need to talk like I talk to make sure that the people that look stop looking. Because if they stop looking, it's a good, good, good start, you know. And if people like you help, life will be a lot easier, because you're knowledgeable. You know that, that thing sucks. You know that, that thing is useless. You know that, that thing is just a thing for people to sell the newsletters every day. It's absolutely useless. There's a lot of wealth being destroyed by the use of these things. It's about time for us as a business community to understand that it's fair to make money. Let's make money doing things that are constructive. And that thing is destructive, is not constructive. I'm sorry I interrupted you. Go ahead please, Timna.
Thank you. Don't forget about the resetting thing. It's serious.
Good morning, Tristan. Yes, you already answered your own question. Yes, that's the January thing. In a market that is clearly undersupplied with prime scrap? Why is it unsupplied with prime scrap? Let's see. Manufacturing in the United States is until the initiative that has happened in the last few years, the IRA, the infrastructure bill, and et cetera., all these things that are going on right now and will bear fruit in the future, manufacturing is shrinking. With manufacturing shrinking, the generation of prime scrap is shrinking. At the same time, the mini mills continue to build capacity and capacity to produce flat rolled steel, it is prime scrap. There's no other way to get there, particularly with mini mills that don't own or own assets. So they can't use enough of metallics, enough of substitutes, so they have to use prime scrap.
So the prime scrap is shrinking because manufacturing is shrinking. It has not started to grow just yet. And the demand for scrap is increasing. What's the trend of the price, is up. So we can't have a drop like the one that was attempted to happen in January, because it was just a head fake. The final numbers were not the initial numbers. The initial numbers were one trade, is one trade that only happens here in Ohio. And we have already identified how the trade goes.
So what's the solution? Just let supply and demand work. Because if supply and demand doesn't work and this thing continues to happen time and time again, this is a country of loss. You cannot collude to make prices go in the direction you want. You're going to have real competition. You're going to have the forces of supply and demand prevail, because that's what the letter of the law will support. I hope you understand my point.
Yes, in 2024, it will be stable, and that's the number. The surcharge called Cliffs H, it's applied to all of our automotive clients at this point. And some of the clients outside of automotive that have the need and the desire to get a steel that is environmentally compliant. It's easy for them to not only pay for it, but also to pass along, which they haven't started yet. But it should be, for a car, for example, assuming that a car has one ton of steel, it would be $40 per car. So it will not be significant in a big scheme of things. So all of our automotive contracts with multiple millions of tons, let's call 5 million tons, is a significant number. So it's not irrelevant. That's why we're spending time discussing in this call.
The next step will be when we have green hydrogen available, which we don't have today. Our trials with hydrogen are being done with what we have, gray hydrogen. And gray hydrogen is good enough for us to make sure that, metallurgically, inside the blast furnace, the hydrogen works as a reductant. And that's what we're proving right now. We are proving to ourselves that we are on the right track. We are very excited that we are on the technological right track. But what we are aiming to have is green hydrogen. And when we have green hydrogen available, we're going to be at the Cliffs H max level.
In the meantime, any hydrogen, green, gray, pink, whatever, we can get our hands around, that we can use to enrich natural gas, we are going to start using. And when we get to a level that we can consider to really reducing CO2 emissions, due to the use of any type of hydrogen that is a positive for CO2 emissions and we can prove the numbers to the world in our sustainability reports, we are going to go to the Cliff H2 surcharge. That will be higher than Cliffs H.
So in summary, Cliffs H now is $40 per ton. When we have hydrogen available enough to use hydrogen to enrich natural gas, we're going to go to Cliff H2, and when you get to green hydrogen, which we fully expect it to be in the next several years, but before 2030, we're going to be at the Cliff H max. But that's the route we're going. But we are doing this to get paid, not to brag about like 99.9% of the CEOs that talk about environmental, they have, they just want this thing to go away one day and they don't need to talk about it anymore. But they don't even know what they're talking about.
Thank you.
Yes, look -- good morning, Bill. Look, first of all, we are seeing our first quarter that is pretty stable in comparison with what we were seeing last year. Remember, last year, everybody was expecting the hard landing, expecting the Armageddon, the catastrophe, and inflation would take over, the world would come to an end. And all of a sudden, everything was great. Everything was okay. And we were fine in terms of soft landing.
The other thing that influenced last year was not even the strike that the UAW called on the big three in Detroit, the big three car manufacturers in Detroit, because that was actually a good thing for us as a supplier, a major supplier of automotive, to the point that the car manufacturers were building inventories in anticipation of the strike. And then when the strike was not as bad or as long as they were anticipating, they continued buying. So we were very mildly affected, only at the very tail end of the strike when the strike was in their last days. But the biggest impact of the UAW strike was the behavior of the other buyers, particularly the middlemen, particularly the service centers and distributors, that in anticipation of a disaster that they were expecting on demand and prices, they stopped buying.
And then when an entire sector goes black, an entire sector does not buy anymore, price goes up. And that's what happened last year. We are not anticipating, Bill, at this point, that nothing like that will happen this year. So we are expecting at the end of the day a much more stable, a much more normal year in 2024, and that's why we are basically anticipating a flat year in terms of shipment, 16.4 million tons last year, 16.5 million tons this year, no change in mix.
I'm sorry, Bill, can you say it one time?
Yes, go ahead, Celso.
Look, we don't see the need to do anything. We believe that we have a fantastic footprint. We have a fantastic position in terms of our feedstock and our ability to control our own destiny. So we don't see the need to do anything. But we continue, Bill, to see opportunities. Technologically, we are ahead. In terms of quality, we are ahead. But don't forget, we built a steel company in three years with that we paid the debt down to a point that nobody would anticipate. It's like buying a big house with a big mortgage, 30-years, and everybody will be happy to keep paying every month for 30-years, and then in three years you're done. You paid off the mortgage. That's what we did here. And investors need to recognize that.
When we see a target that is completely underappreciated like U.S. Steel, U.S. Steel is trading based on the cash on hand. Everybody, someone else was believing that they could do a better job than that management team that is squattering there. And I agree with them. That's why I made an offer to bring them to the role of companies that trade based on some type of fundamentals and not just on cash on hand. And that my first offer and was a good one. But then things got crazy, because that board did not want to sell to Cliff, Spirit full stock. They would like to bring the back of the union. That's what they are doing.
Let's talk Turkey here. That management team and that board had one goal in mind, and the goal was to bring the back of the United Steelworkers. And by breaking the back of the United Steelworkers to break the back of the United Labor in America, I am a big supporter of United Labor, because it goes against bosses like Dave Burritt. These type of people need to go. So that's my take on U.S. Steel. Do I need to do more color or that's enough?
Yes, the last price increase we are transacting at the level that we announced for some cases. And the overall market is still below, so it's a mixed bag. So we always try one more until we realize that the market has reached a point that we are not going to be able to push anymore. We like higher prices. That's the best thing for our companies, the best thing for our employees, the best thing for our shareholders. So that's why we push prices up. We go until we can't go no more.
On the other hand, we don't see any reason for price to be -- of HRC price to be below $1,000 in this marketplace at this very point, with all the fundamentals being, you go around and around and around and come back to one thing, scrap. So I have already discussed scrap enough. So $1,000 per ton is a good floor. And I would say that at this point, the $1,150 is my talk. So that's the range that I expect price to transact as far as HRC going forward. As far as the automotive block that goes in April, the biggest client on that block is Toyota. Toyota is an April 1 for us. And we have a great relationship with Toyota. We -- they are our largest client in automotive at this point, by a decent margin against the other that we used to be called big three. They are still big, but Toyota is bigger.
And the good thing about Toyota is we continue to develop highly sophisticated specs with Toyota, particularly at this point in no-oriented electrical steels, because we really produce no-oriented electrical steels, we don't just say that we are producing no-oriented electrical steels, and we never sue Toyota like Nippon Steel just did in Japan. Nippon Steel sued Toyota for -- to get a price increase. We're getting price increase without suing our clients. So if that's the technology that they would like to bring to the United States. We don't need that technology. We know how relationships work.
50-50 is a good number. We are probably in the 45, 55. So we're close to the 55, I don't know if Celso has any more color on that.
I'm sorry, I'm not sure if I understood your question, Lucas.
Yes. The biggest thing when we were talking about is still coming from abroad is that, first of all, it's still coming from abroad by and large, it's still coming from blast furnace BOF integrated type of mills. The mini mill thing only exists in volume and in importance in the United States. So when you talk about big producers of steel that are able to export no matter if it's from China or Korea or Japan or Europe, they are super influenced by the price of iron ore. So the old [Indiscernible] that we used to discuss a lot in these calls a few years ago is now above $130.
I remember one of my last calls when our award was still important. For us, I said [Indiscernible] should trade no lower than $130, something like that, bingo. That's exactly several years later, that's exactly where we are. So I'm making the same prediction for how hot rolled square today. And we continue to be very attentive to the trade laws of the United States and the enforcement of the trade laws of the United States. Because when things don't go the way I have just described, the reason is very simple. It's dumping. And the biggest problem of having foreign ownership in the United States is that you put the box to take care of the hen house. And then we're going to have a domestic player that will say, no, I don't think that there's a problem here. And he's a domestic player. So we cannot allow that to happen, because that would be weakening the trade laws from the inside.
If you can't enforce having the trade laws, it doesn't work. So that's one of the things why we are so protected in terms of our supply chains and our national security. Because of course, it's not in the best interest of the country to give away control over these things, particularly steel production in times of war or pre-war that we are in right now.
Thank you, Lucas.
Thank you very much for participating in the call today. Great questions. We believe that the saga is not over, but for us, we are going to continue to play as we go. In the next 24 hours, the window for us will be open, and you make no mistake, my priority at this point is buying back my shares, because my shares are on sale. So, and I’d like to buy things on sale. Thank you very much and have a great day.