Enrique Lores
Enrique Lores
HP Inc. (HPQ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah. So, Wamsi, hi, this is Enrique. Let me provide a view on macro, and then Marie will be more specific about seasonality on EPS, because I think it will help to understand it better.
So, from a macro perspective, what we saw in Q4 is an increase in seasonality, especially for PCs, between Q3 and Q4. And also, on the commercial side, we saw stability of sales. Market continued to remain soft, but especially when we look at real end user demand, we saw demand being stable. And somehow this helps us in the projection that we have for next year. As we discussed before, we expect the PC market to be slightly growing from 2024 to 2023, and the print market to be about flat to slightly decline between '24 and '25 -- '24 and '23, and we expect both segments to improve gradually through the year.
So, having said that context, Marie will address the EPS question.
Thank you.
So, let me start on Print. So, not much has changed since we met a few weeks ago. So, we continue to see a competitive environment on the Print side, especially driven by the current situation between yen and dollar. But I have to say, between Q3 and Q4, we didn't see more aggressive pricing. If anything, prices sequentially improved Q3 to Q4. We have not seen an increase in competition from that perspective.
When we look at '24 and the actions that we are taking to compensate for a potential more pricing increase, we are going to be executing the plan that we described before. We have an aggressive cost reduction plan that will help us to manage that. We continue to drive the shift toward HP+ units and profit upfront units that will also help from that perspective. And we continue to drive -- and we expect to grow share in the office space, which will be a contributor of margin improvement.
And finally, as we shared in our prepared remarks, we have seen an improvement of the performance of the industrial business. We have seen a recovery of the market. And within the market, we have grown both hardware and consumption. And we think this is going to help us also in 2024.
So, let me start by saying that we are really excited about the impact that AI PCs are going to have in the overall PC category. As we have shared before, we think that they will drive -- they will double the expected growth from '24 to '26. So, it's really going to have significant impact.
If we talk about '24, we think the impact will be smaller just because of: first, timing, the first AI PC will be introduced in the second half; and second, because of penetration, when we launch a new category, we know also it takes time for the category to penetrate. Our expectation is that in three years, 40% to 60% of the PCs will be AI PC, but it's going to be a gradual penetration of the category.
But again, we are really excited, not only because of the impact that it will have on the business, but also because of the value -- additional value this is going to bring to our customers.
Thank you. Yes. So, what we had said before, and we haven't changed our projection is, average selling price for PCs will increase between 5% and 10%, as a consequence of the penetration of AI PC. Thank you.
Yeah. So, let me complement that. So, I think there are multiple factors that drove the good performance of supplies in Q4. As I have said many times though, when we look at year-on-year compares, it's not the best way to look at the performance in a quarter because there are many adjustments that are done every quarter, and then comparisons can all -- can distort the overall perspective.
We are driving many positive actions on supplies. We continue to grow share overall, which is something that we have been doing already for several quarters. We have increased prices to reflect the value that we bring. So, the combination of all these things help us to grow supplies quarter-on-quarter. And again, we are pleased with the performance. But in the long term, we continue to expect the supplies to decline low- to mid-single digits. We are not changing our projections for supplies in the future.
Thank you.
We expect to see a similar level of aggressiveness that we were seeing before channel inventory was high. And at this point, what we know about the holiday season is that based on the selling, the shipments we have been making, the strength of our portfolio, we have very good assortment on the stores. We have just introduced significant innovation across our full portfolio. So, we are optimistic about the holiday season in the coming weeks.
Sure. We continue to be very bullish about the opportunities that we have with the Poly business. Of course, during the last week, it has been impacted -- during the last quarter, it has been impacted by macro. But feedback we get from our channel, from our customers continues to be very positive. As you said, we just introduced both new technology in the systems and the new as-a-service model, which we think will help us to drive growth in 2024. And really the opportunity to grow and to innovate continues to be there.
From a process perspective, we are now finishing the IT integration based on the plan that we shared a few quarters ago. We have been driving the process as per plan. And again, we are happy with the progress we have made. I'm really optimistic about the opportunities this business is going to bring to us.
Thank you.
Perfect. Thank you, Erik. And thank you because when I was answering to Toni, I missed to mention one of the elements that also helped, which is the easy compare, because last -- Q4 last year was not a strong quarter for supplies. So, this also has an impact on the year-on-year compare.
If I -- if we look at the Four Box Model and the different drivers of supplies, clearly, installed base has continued to decline. So, this is a negative factor. Usage continues to go down, which is a negative factor, though I have to say, continues to be above, especially the home, in space, the references and the projections that we were making before the pandemic. And then, two positive factors that have had an impact this quarter; one is pricing, we have increased prices for supplies, and market share. As I mentioned before, we have continued to grow share for supplies, which has a positive impact on the overall supplies growth. Thank you.
Yeah. And just in your question about the office market in Print, two key comments. One is we have continued to shift change from A3 to A4, especially in Commercial -- in large Commercial customers. We think this is driven by the fact that we expect to see less printing -- people in the office. And therefore, they have reduced the printing volumes that they were expecting and they need less production type of products. So that has been one change.
Second, in terms of both A4 and A3, we continue to see an opportunity to grow share. We did it in this quarter in A3, and we have started to grow our share in A4 in several geographies. We did it in North America -- in Americas. We did it in several countries in Europe. We did it in China. And we know we have some work to do, but we expect to continue to drive that during 2024.
Thank you.
Thank you. Well, first of all, thank you, all of you for joining. With the Q4 results, we believe are a signal of the progress that we are making and increase the confidence that we have in the plan that we shared with all of you a few weeks ago. And this reinforces the key message that we shared at SAM, that we believe that HP shares are undervalued and continue to be a good investment. And then last but not least, for those of you in the U.S., let me close the call wishing all of you a very happy Thanksgiving. Thank you.