Greg Hayes
Greg Hayes
RTX Corporation (RTX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Good morning, Rob.
Let me start, Ron, and maybe Chris can add something. Let me give you a couple details first. On the aftermarket side at Collins, we expect that to be up high-single-digits to low-double-digits, I'd say 10% or more. On the OE side, mid to high-single-digits. And we're going to see, as everyone knows, about 40% incrementals there. And yes, wide body is going to be a big driver. So as we've seen a lot of narrow body, I'll call it catch up in growth over the last couple of years, we do expect that to shift to the widebody.
Now keep in mind on the widebody OE side for Collins, the margins are a bit thinner there, but it does set us up for good longer term projections, especially as you get into ‘25 and ‘26 and beyond, as that comes off warranty and converts to aftermarket. Around the interior business, I think Steve Tim had said this back in June, that business is growing, but it's nowhere near levels of 2019. And so we don't see that coming back until about 2026. So the good news is, you know, there's a lot of runway there. And we are seeing a lot of activity there. So I think that will be a growth driver. But clearly, we're starting to see a bit more of a shift from narrow body into wide body as we go into the next couple of years.
You know, Ron, that's actually an ongoing process. We're in the process of working with a number of airlines as they are going through their retrofit. And keep in mind, that is a three- to five-year process to upgrade these things. So we are still finishing out things that we had signed up for back in 2018, 2019. But again, as Neil said, the business is coming back. But given the long cycle nature of these upgrades, you're not going to see a heck of a lot of that in ‘24, more than ‘25 and certainly more than ‘26.
Good morning, Seth. Let me start, I wouldn't characterize the defense business within Collins as a drag. I think the defense business in ‘23 was flat at the top line and it experienced a lot of the same issues we've been talking about on the Raytheon side in terms of the impacts of inflation, the delays in the supply chain. But as we look to ‘24, we're going to see, I'd say, healthy growth there, low to mid-single-digits as we catch up and the supply chain catches up and we burn down the overdue there. And I think we're really well positioned on a lot of strategic platforms.
Remember, we moved businesses from the Raytheon segment into the Collins Mission Systems business to create more synergistic opportunity there. And I think that's really taking hold and there's a lot of good proposal activity there. So I think it's a great fit. It's in the right place in Collins. More broadly, I think just talking about the aftermarket potential at Collins, very strong, but we just put up some significant numbers there with aftermarket of 26% and provisioning up 42% on a full-year. So clearly there's been a surge in aftermarket over the last year, and so we're dealing with some very difficult compares.
And on the OE side, we'll start to see that growth moderate, but again, still on the back of some really strong 17% growth in ‘23. So I think Collins is well positioned and I think the defense business is a good fit and it's in the right place there for it right now.
Okay. Thank you, everyone, for calling in and listening today. As always, Jennifer and her investor relations team will be available all day to answer whatever further questions you might have. So with that, thank you and have a wonderful day. Take care.