Brian Doubles
Brian Doubles
Synchrony Financial (SYF) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Rick.
Thanks, Rick. Have a good day.
Good morning, Ryan.
Yeah, sure, Moshe. I'll start on this. We're obviously still waiting for the final rule to be issued, but with that said, while there still some unknowns in terms of the implementation period and other things that we'll see in the final rule, we've been working on this for almost a full-year now at this point. It's very complicated. Our teams have done a lot of work in preparation for this. We spent a lot of time with our partners. We've agreed on pricing actions and offsets that we would deploy when we see the final rule. So it's really all the work that has been going on over the past year. I mean it's systems work. You've got to issue a lot of CITs, change in terms. And so it's really that kind of stuff. I will say that the conversations with our partners have been very constructive. They fully recognize that without these offsets, that a meaningful portion of their customers that we approve today and that we underwrite and give credit to would no longer have access to credit. And that's something clearly we do not want, they do not want. So really no change to what we said in the past. Our goal is to protect our partners, fully offset the impact of the final rule when it does come. And we want to continue to provide credit to the customers that we do today.
Yeah, I think, look, generally we would continue to expect outsized growth in Health & Wellness. That's a platform where we've accelerated investment in the past year or two. We're seeing really good growth from our acquisition of Allegro Credit. It's a big market. We've got a leading position. This is dental, vet, cosmetic, great engagement with partner network. And so that's a platform we'll continue to invest in, and we would expect to see growth there on the higher side relative to the other platforms. The other one I would mention is digital. That's where we've got Venmo, Verizon, PayPal, Amazon, and so I think you'd continue to see some outsized growth there. And then maybe a little bit softer in lifestyle and home and auto. I don't know, Brian, if you’d add anything to that.
Thanks, Moshe.
Yeah, so I would say, first, I'll take the second part first, which is late fees and how that's impacting the pipeline. I do think it does make pricing new business, even renewals to some extent, a little more challenging. But we've been able to kind of work through that. You mentioned J.Crew. We're excited to announce that new program. But you've got to spend time. That's part of the negotiation, right? And there's speculation there and there's some uncertainty. And so you kind of got to try and cover yourself for those possible outcomes, which we believe we've done. So it does make, I think, pricing new business or renewals a little more challenging. I do think there'll be some clarity here in the next month or two, and that will clear that up and make things a little bit easier from that perspective. But it has influenced, I think, not only us, but other market participants. It's a big part of the conversation when she gets through. The way I think about the kind of the BD or the sales process, it's a lot about capabilities, technology, data analytics, data share, all those things. But then when you get to the financials, this is a big part of the discussion that's crept in there over the last 12 months just given the uncertainty. The other thing, just in terms of our pipeline for renewals, the vast majority of our programs are out there 2026 and beyond. With that said, if we have an opportunity, as always, if we have an opportunity to renew early, if there's something the partner wants to change in the deal or something we want to change, we'll get together and see if we can kick the term out a few years. So that's something we're always actively trying to work on with our partners.
Yeah, let me -- well, why don’t I start with Ally because it's the more recent of the two transactions. I mean, look, I think we're super excited about this acquisition. I think it's actually great for both companies. These were conversations that JB and I started back in the first half of ‘23. I think this wasn't a scale business for Ally, but on our side, this is absolutely a scale business. This is exactly the type of acquisition that we look for. These are businesses and industries that we know really well. We obviously have a presence already in home improvement and health and wellness. In fact, as we got into this, we realized that we serve some of the same partners. So as I think about Ally, it really just complements and accelerates our current strategy. I also think that, and Brian covered this, got a very attractive financial profile, it’s EPS accretive, it's got a nice ROA that'll be in line or maybe a little bit better than the company average. We get 2,500 new merchants. We get 500,000 new customers. So there's really a lot to like here. I mean, this is a nice bolt-on acquisition for us and will be a nice ad for both Home & Auto, but also Health & Wellness.
And then Pets Best was really more opportunistic. We weren't looking to sell the pet insurance business. It's been a great business for us. We're obviously creating a lot of value in a relatively short period of time We did a great job growing the business. From 2019, we grew the pets in force over 5x. We took the business to number seven or number eight to the number four pet insurance provider in the US. And when IPH approached us, it was a great offer, tough to turn it down. It's over 10x our original investment. We'll record a nice after-tax gain. But I think more importantly than that, it allows us to stay invested in the pet space and do it with someone, a great partner like IPH that has the scale, that has the expertise. And so we think there's not only a nice financial gain, but a long-term strategic play here that will benefit us. So it's a nice way to close out the year with two, I think, really great transactions.
Sorry, Sanjay, one more? Say that again?
Yeah. Look, we got a lot on our plate. I'd start with that. We got to get both of these transactions closed, which we hope to do in the first quarter. We got a lot going on in 2024, for sure. With that said, we typically get invited into most RFPs in this space and the things that are important to us haven't changed. We look for a good risk adjusted return. We look for really good alignment with the partner. I think that's probably the most important thing, particularly when you're looking at large deals. You've got to make sure that both partners like the deal in good times and bad times, that our interests are aligned around marketing and credit and underwriting and really all aspects of the program. So we'll always be in the market for opportunities that fit that screen.
Thanks, Sanjay. Have a good day.
Yeah, let me start with the second one first. I think we're all on a level playing field here in terms of the new late fee proposal. So as we're in there trying to, whether it's a renewal or new business, the impact is the same. I think it all comes down to what is the issuers required rate of return, what are the things that are important to them. So I don't see it changing the competitive dynamic much because it impacts us all equally. It really depends on the type of portfolio, what's important to the partner, the sharing, the alignment, all the things I talked about. So I don't think it will have -- I don't see it having a big impact there. And particularly at the point at which we have some clarity here around a final rule, then I think it becomes even clearer in terms of what to bake in.
And, Brian, why don’t you talk a little bit about the APRs and fees?