Tim Donahue
Tim Donahue
Crown Holdings, Inc. (CCK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
George, you can speak up a little?
Yes.
Sure, George. So, the answer to the first question, no, no carryover. Inventory is pretty much in line with where we think the business is going to go going forward in the tinplate businesses. To your second question, listen, I think the answer is any business is for sale under the right terms and conditions. But we are not in the market to give our businesses away in the hopes of driving some short-term multiple gain just so the private equity guys can make money, because we sold a business it below where it’s value, where the true value is. These businesses all generate pretty substantial cash. I mean, pretty difficult – I have a difficult time understanding how we create more value by getting smaller. We sold a business a couple of years ago, a very large business. We got a very good price, especially historically when you consider where a food can business trades, didn’t move the needle on valuation. So I have a hard time understanding it.
Now specifically to the business as you mentioned, listen, transit is an excellent business. We don’t spend a lot of time talking about it because you folks don’t want to talk about it, but this is a business with low- to mid-teens margins that requires almost no capital investment. I wish I had 5 more businesses like this where I didn’t have to invest any money and all it did was send me cash every day. Pretty stable business. Some of the end markets, as we’ve said before, might not be as stable or they might fluctuate more than other businesses. But our business, servicing a variety of end markets, is remarkably stable with the exception of the COVID year. The tinplate businesses, the food business is, as we said, well capitalized, doing quite well, income above pre-pandemic levels. Aerosol, well, it is an expensive way to dispense products. There are some things happening in the aerosol market. I would say that some of the large CPGs, despite their claims to meet their environmental goals, if you were to go into a market, you’d see that a lot of air fresheners now are in all plastic. They are not in metal anymore. They are not an aluminum and/or steel. So it is a changing business. We’re going to right-size the business for what we expect future demand to be, and we’ll see where it goes from there.
The beverage can equipment business, it’s been an excellent business for us for a number of years. I would project that this year and next year that it’s predominantly a service and parts business, that there is – there are a few new machine orders or new lines being installed globally, with the exception of China. And so we’ll hold on. We’ve right-sized the business. We’ll see what other end markets that our skilled technicians and mechanics can serve us besides beverage can equipment. But this is – this is a charge we took in the first quarter last year, George, and I won’t say which analyst, but one of you analysts called me afterwards and said, this is kind of the canary in the coal mine. You talked about your beverage can equipment business taking a big charge because of reduced expected demand and nobody brought up the question, as if nobody wanted to understand what was going on with expected future growth in beverage. And so I’ll leave that answer to a future question. But that’s my longwinded answer to your question, George. I apologize for being so long.
Thank you.
Yes. I think that – again, our guidance versus your estimates, these were your estimates, not ours. And I understand your estimate for Q1 was trying to somewhat move from what we reported in the first quarter of ‘23 back towards the first quarter of ‘22 and we’re going the opposite direction. I would say that European Beverage, probably a bit weaker in Q1 than we would have or you would have anticipated, and that’s largely the result of Q1 being a smaller quarter and – and while we do expect the European market to pick up in ‘24, we would expect that to be more back – more summer weighted, not Q1. And then the other segments, we had a very strong result in the equipment business in Q1 last year, and I’ll bet you if I had numbers in front of me, I’ll bet you our equipment businesses, probably down in the order of $10 million to $12 million alone, Q1 ‘24 versus Q1 ‘23. And then aerosol probably makes up another handful of the shortfall. So they would be the three buckets.
No, it’s in the guide already.
So I think in Europe, as I said in the prepared remarks, we are much stronger in Southern Europe than we are in Northern Europe. So if you want to think about Spain, Italy, Greece. And those markets were significantly weaker than the Northern European markets. We actually did quite well in the Middle East and Turkey, but our weakness was in the Southern Continental European countries. I think that there are some things in the European market that are certainly different from a retail perspective and a customer promotion perspective than – than what we see in North America. And – but I do think Europe is a market that will grow this year. It’s a market that might be down 1 year, but it doesn’t stay down for long. It generally – if we have a down year in Europe, we generally bounce back pretty quick within a year, not much more than a year. So I do expect Europe – although weak Q1, we’re projecting to be weak, I do expect some strength beginning in Q2 and forward.
No, I think it’s still too early for that.
You are welcome.
Well, I think what’s impacting demand in Europe is the pressure on the consumer from all the other things that they are faced with, energy and all their other costs. I don’t think the expulsion of one particular brand from a large retail chain affects us because it’s just replaced with other products on the shelves. Part of the issue in Europe is that this has more to do with government control around inflation than it does with the retailer. And so the retailer, in my view, I think the retailer is looking to avoid a government problem by putting the blame on the big soft drink company. I think if you were to – if somebody was to walk through the store, you would see that that particular soft drink company, what they are charging for beverages is not the highest charge for beverages on the shelf, but they do have other products perhaps in the retail store, and they are being punished across their entire portfolio, be it snacks and soft drinks, whereas their soft drink pricing is not the highest in the store.
So I think – but this has more to do with overreaching government regulation in that central banks around the world have created a problem for all of us, specifically consumers on the lower end of the scale, and they are trying to paint somebody else as the bad guy and they first point their finger at the retailer, and then the retailer points their finger at the CPG. So this will sort itself out in time. But specifically, the expulsion – again, I’ll say it again, the expulsion of one product does not impact demand. It’s just replaced with another product. What impacts demand is significant inflation across a variety of cost buckets for the consumer, notably energy.
How would I say this? I would say that – I would say that we’ve not been – well, let me say it this way. I think – you should be able to appreciate from the margins we have versus others margins that we’ve tried to grow our business in a responsible way in the marketplace. That is to say, that the share gains we’ve experienced were more likely the result of higher aspirations by others, which were not fulfilled and/or customers wanting to rebalance. I do think that by the end of – I think by the end of 2024 from where we sit, we think the market vis-a-vis customers and suppliers is probably set where it’s going to be for the next couple of years. It’d be difficult for me to understand significant share moves beyond that, unless somebody does something extremely foolish.
Thank you.
Good morning, Ghansham.
Yes. So what do we have? We’ve got $0.30 coming from – roughly $0.28 to $0.30 coming from the depreciation change. You’ve got higher depreciation year-on-year just from prior year’s capital investment. So I wouldn’t say it’s a wash, but it’s probably two-thirds of the depreciation changes offset by higher depreciation from prior year’s capital investment. You got the benefits of restructuring. And then you’ve got pretty sizable headwinds if you combine equipment, aerosols in Mexico. And I bet you if you took the equipment business, that could be down – Ghansham, year-on-year, that could be down on the order of $40 million. Aerosols and Mexican mix more one-way glass versus returnable in the PPI lag. We’re on a 1-year lag basis for PPI in Mexico. So as utility prices go up and down. We either get it and pay it the next year or pay it this year and get it next year, and we’re in the cycle where we will get it next year. But I would say, if you took the equipment business, aerosol in Mexico, you’re looking at combined $80 million across those three buckets. Offset by volume gains and some restructuring gains.
Yes. I mean think about this year, it sound’s like we will get everything done. Think about like $15 million, and we get more next year. Generally, there are – these are 1-year paybacks. The two plants in Asia were older plants built in the early ‘90s by a company we acquired. They were built – the one was built in the market it should have never been built in. These were initially built as slow speed lines. We’ve sped them up, the median speed lines. But in today’s marketplace, they can’t compete with a high-speed line factory. So the savings there are not as great as you would otherwise imagine because they weren’t very expensive to begin with. You got to remember, you go to a – you take an old plant out, there is no depreciation on it, so you don’t get the depreciation savings.
It will not be a headwind in 2023. We took the opportunity to reduce the off-balance sheet finance – it’s just financing of another form, Ghansham. We’re just trying to optimize the cost of financing. We – we generated probably on the order of $300 million to $350 million of working capital source of cash. So we offset it by buying that down off balance sheet. The closure of Batesville, I described that to you as one-off, post the closure of Batesville, our utilization rates are mid-90s. I’ll bet you the industry is 90 to 92 right now, and we’re probably 94 to 96. So we’re in pretty good balance in North America.
You are welcome.
Good morning.
Yes. So I think we described the business to you all when we acquired it in 2018 as a – as a GDP-like business. So in the absence of a large capital plan organic or inorganic, this business is going to grow with GDP. And as you know, the industrial activity is down. We’ve been able to offset that with cost reductions over the last couple of years. I’d tell you that little – it’s a little difficult to describe volume to you, but I can give you volume dollars. Our volume dollars in Q4 were down on the order of 3.5%. And for the full year, we’re down in the order of 8.5%. That’s volume dollars. But obviously, as you could tell by the income results, that was significantly offset by cost reduction activities and better price/cost management. So we would expect that the first half of this year, again, volume dollars to be a headwind. We will continue to offset that a bit with cost, but the income growth that we’re looking to experience in transit, weighted more towards Qs 3 and 4 than the first half of the year. But again, pretty – I know you guys are tired of hearing because you don’t like the business, but it’s a solid business that generates low to mid-teens returns on no capital.
No, I think Americas Beverage, you’ve got growth in North America and Brazil, and I’d say it’s mostly offset by the headwind in Mexico. So I think the segment is largely flat year-on-year given the Mexican headwind.
So I think that – we project the market in North America to be flat to up 1%. And just to remind ourselves, we believe the market was down on the order of 5% in ‘22, and it was down on – or was up about 1% in ‘23. We don’t see why ‘24 is up any more than 1%, so flat to 1%. And in that kind of market, we’re currently projecting we’d be up 4% to 5%. Having said that, obviously, January off to a rocketing start, but it’s 1 month and it’s a small month, so we don’t get too excited about it. Brazil, again, I’d suggest to you that we think the market and ourselves, up in the 2% to 3% range.
You are welcome.
Can you ask the second question again?
I’ll answer the EBITDA question. You got to ask me the second question again. So if we had $1.882 billion of EBITDA in ‘23, the number you just quoted, far too low. We’re – we’re within $10 million to $15 million of that number in ‘24. So think about 18.60 to 18.70. So you’re well off that number. And then what was your second question?
No, no. So I think what I just answered to Adam’s question, we said flat year-on-year, and that’s growth in North America and Brazil, offset by glass in Mexico.
Well, I think we could consider doing anything. I don’t particularly like the economics of aluminum aerosol, really expensive. And it doesn’t provide you with the incremental growth opportunities that you see in D&I beverage cans. So, the impact extruded aluminum aerosol can is generally one line gives you the output of x number of units. And there is really no way to add equipment to it to increase those x units to y units on that one line. If you want more units, you need to add more lines. So, for me, the – it’s an expensive business, okay. If you are already in it, like a lot of businesses, if you are already in it, you can talk yourself into spending more money. It’s really difficult to talk yourself into getting into that business. There are better uses of capital.
Yes.
Good question. The first thing I would say is that the real headwind that you faced last year and looking into this year is just the consumer is weak. And it’s a much weaker consumer to start with than we are used to in Western Europe or North America. And so what would really help is if we had volume growth, obviously. And for that, we need some kind of economic stimulus in the region. Now, there are obviously – there has been a significant amount of capacity installed mostly in China, where we are very small. There has been some incremental capacity installed in the Southeast Asia, but not to the level that would give you concern if there was adequate growth in the market and adequate growth being decided, defined as mid-single digits, which should be achievable in a market like Southeast Asia with a consumer that’s continuing to experience more purchasing power, albeit over the last 1.5 years, last 2 years, they have had declining purchasing power. So, that’s the real challenge at this point.
Rough number, yes.
So, like, Mexico, as you stated, comes back next year, no doubt. Can-making equipment business, as I have said earlier, we are – this year will be a service and parts business for previous equipment sold and installed. So, there won’t be a headwind next year from less machines sold because there will be no – minimal machines sold this year. So, that probably – that business will come back in the future, but it’s probably ‘26 and after. I don’t forecast – based on where we see global growth rates for beverage cans outside of China, I don’t see the need for more beverage can equipment in any market. But we do expect there will be enough growth that there will be further lines installed in the future, but that’s a ‘26 and after phenomenon. Aerosols, as I have said, there are some things happening in the aerosol business. I think that there is some substrate change to plastic. I would say the business is – I don’t see the business getting any worse, but it could be a year or 2 years before it gets better. We need some demand pickup in that business. And certainly, would demand pick up perhaps some better behavior by some of the others in the marketplace.
Good morning Gabe.
No. I think to answer the second part of your question, the Middle East has remained – despite the conflict, has remained very firm. I think the – perhaps the labels are different, but the volume is similar to higher. So, we don’t see that challenge that you just described. So, North America, I think that there is no reason why we can’t as an industry remain disciplined at utilization rates in the low to mid-90s levels. These are very high utilization rates. So, in the absence – as I have said earlier, in the absence of somebody doing something foolish, we don’t see significant share shifts beyond 2024.
$15 million this year, with more to come next year, I mean obviously, you announced them, it takes you some time to get the plant closed and realize the benefits through the remaining system. No, I think on the beverage can equipment business, I wouldn’t say this is a normal run rate, I would say this is a low point, considering that we don’t project any machine sales this year or next year. Clearly, when machine sales return, the profits go back up. So, I don’t think this is the normal. I do think that it’s hard to project as we sit here today after the last 2 years that the market for North American beverage will grow any more than zero to 1%. I know some others have higher growth aspirations for the market than that, but we are going to grow more than that this year, but I don’t see the market growing more than that. As you know, the customers have a new value over volume model. It’s hard for me to understand how much more volume they would need to sell to offset price loss if they do significant promotions. And I am sure they are much smarter about that, and they target their promotions in a way that I wouldn’t understand market-by-market. But you would have to sell an incredibly – incredible amounts of volume more than you are projecting now to offset the price that they have realized. So, if a 12-pack used to be $3, Gabe, that’s $6 for a case versus $18 for a case now, not promoted. And even promoted, if you are talking about buy two get one, that’s $12 a case. So, significant price inflation that they put into the market, hard to understand how they can reverse that and keep profits moving in the right direction for them. I understand for them that like all business, you always say volume covers all sins. Well, I don’t think they want to create the sin of under-pricing their product anymore. So, I think that zero to 1% for the market is probably a fair assessment as we sit here today.
You’re welcome.
Second question, listen, I think we announced the closure of Decatur. I think we are in a much better position after the Decatur closure. Now, you are back to, you have the capacity you need, a little more volume would help. And I think as I have said earlier, a little more volume perhaps brings about a little bit better behavior across the industry. I will leave it at that. On Europe, as I have said earlier, the challenge, and you probably heard others say as well, the challenge that we have right now is the consumer is under incredible pressure across Europe. If you were to look at any index measure of economic activity or consumer confidence, it’s pretty low across Europe right now. But I do think as I have said earlier, we have had periods before where in the can business where Europe has been down, it never stays down for long. So, I do think by the summer months here as we get into the summer months, we will start to see a pickup late in the second quarter through the summer.
You’re welcome.
Thanks George. So, I think $15 million this year and perhaps another $15 million next year. Keeping in mind, these are all old plants. So, there is no depreciation, right. So, you don’t get the depreciation savings that you see from a plant that’s not 30-plus years old. For Europe, we are expecting a flatter – so zero to 1% volume environment for Crown in 2024, I think the market up on the order of 2% to 3%.
Yes. Good question. So, listen, I think you are right. It doesn’t get measurably better in the future, but it doesn’t get any worse from where we are at, where we are projecting in ‘24. Yes, it is integrated. As you think about the – and I know, George, you know this as well as anybody, the process to cut, coat and print sheet across aerosols and food, very integrated. You could carve it out, but it probably leads to more dissynergies than it’s worth. And again, as I have said earlier, the prospect of selling any business is always on the table, but you have to think about how you are going to replace the cash flow if you would sell any one or a combination of businesses, specifically North American tinplate. We still generate a sizable amount of free cash flow across these businesses on an annual basis. As you consider, we don’t spend any capital in these businesses. And I think I addressed earlier why we are not interested to spend any capital in the aluminum aerosol business. So, we run these – those businesses, we specifically run for cash. And we will continue to run them for cash until something else breaks, but they are cash positive.
Thanks George. So Bill, I think you said that that was the last question. So, we thank everybody for joining us, and we will speak to you again in April after the completion of the first quarter. Thanks very much. Bye now.