Avigal Soreq
Avigal Soreq
Delek US Holdings, Inc. (DK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey Neil, how are you. Maybe you know how much energy we have on topic in the beta during the content significant headway in there some of the funds going to happen. One issue that Mark, you want to add more?
Just sort of little out, I might appreciate it.
Yeah. So Neil, you can see it very easy to see that we had a record during the quarter and the investment needs all the guidance to give in terms of G&A, OpEx, very strong cash flow. Supply and marketing obviously had a weaker, which is in line with the seasonal trend -- and we've seen that line of supply marketing that the previous quarter and a big positive in Q2. So there is some seasonality into that line, which is more market-driven. But listen, we are focusing on what we can control, and we did a good job during the quarter, Joseph, I don't know if you are an that visible.
Thank you.
Yeah, absolutely, John. I would -- asked Reuven maybe to give you some more color around it.
Yes, absolutely, John. So, at this point, we've elected to negotiate with the DOE, but there is no material CapEx -- capital for 2024. And we're going to do everything we will do under this FICC benchmark that we put on ourselves on the cost of capital return or from IRR standpoint. So, they are not going to break that metrics. But just from a holistic standpoint, you can see a very nice system running, the big spleen and they look at our marketing to read them in this area and were elected the Tulsa refinery to elect -- to electric energy transition by the DOE, which is a very big deal. And we believe that those projects will be further in the future and we will make -- will make a capital advantage or capital -- to meet our capital benchmark.
Another option we have on the renewable diesel. We are looking at that very carefully. Obviously, it's a cheap way to get the look into renewable diesel has to consider a 5,000 have renewed -- renewable diesel later, so we are fortunate not to commit to $200 million, $300 million and then there is a benefit from that. So we were fortune around that but the margin is very close to that. I don't know Mark, if you want to add anything around the option.
Good morning, Roger.
So, we are not going to give guidance to this line in some -- this is markets there was a market usually give. So, we'll be consistent with our builds around that. Overall, there is a positive trend, correlated to seasonal -- driving seasonal. We all are seeing the information around -- from a macro standpoint around gasoline and diesel. We are -- gasoline we are looking at around a five-year average below and in diesel we are at the lower end of the five-year average. So both the nuclear constructive but beyond the general market information, we are not going to give a guidance for the supply and marketing. You have something to end.
Yeah for sure. And Joseph will give a complete answer. But I would just say from a big picture standpoint, Big Spring is a refinery that's new to us, consisting 70,000 barrels a day of throughput in all and it is $525 OpEx, you can see the trend yield before, and there is no reason we cannot bring it back to where it used to be. And that's the highlight of the $100 billion. So if we realized consistent as that refinery used while in the past there is no reason we cannot get to what it used to be in 2023.
Yeah. Matthew, it's a great question. Everything is on the table and we are active. They have more than one fortnight [ph], so absolutely.
We don't give guidance for that line, and we will remain consistent with debt with the partners, amount of deals, and Rosy, I think you have a lot of energy around that topic.
To step in if we start with the uncertainty about the UK towards things and I will give some more color on the oil fields.
If you want some highlights around Eldorado, Joseph prepared in his prepared remark that we are planning to run a bit more heavy slate in Eldorado and take advantage of the weakness that we have been seeing of Canadian grades, heavier grades. And we're also addressing wholesale opportunity in the area. So Eldorado is a refinery that was built to run heavier than we were running, versus what we were running it, and we are trying to capture that opportunity.
And that is the -- slides 24 to 25. As you can see big spleen which is not related to capital. Some of the upside is coming 2025. This release and the slide says 24 to 25 don't seem to get it to a format -- to a capital commitment for commitment to 2025, just to make it very clear. That was not the intent of the slide. The slide will say that the benefit is going to come over time, but the turnaround which is the heavy capital during 2024 going to be completed in 2024
Hey, thanks for the question. I will give an overview about what we are thinking and how we think about the capital return to investor. So first of all will be -- we are very committed to shareholder return. We had a from free cash flow this year over $146 million of return, $85 million of the buyback and $61 million of dividends.
We are committed to maintain the same philosophy going into 2024. And there you can probably appreciate that we've bought 8% -- 8% of our sales of 2023. So nothing of what we are disclosing is the way to suggest any waiver of our boat. We are very committed to shareholder return. We want to see as I said market leader around it and we are pointing us to the path to that standard.
So in fact it was not a midcycle environment. We want to do it from free cash flow. So we are committed to this and the find -- do you have in finding more will depend on market condition as opposed to project market condition. And I'm optimistic about market condition, but you will hold me to that number and I don't want to be held to a number that the market conditions driven.
You need to understand the state of mind is find ways to bring return to shareholder. On the short term, medium term and long term and we are committed to all of them. And you have seen that as you have seen us demonstrate that Jason last year very nicely. We did. We did exactly what we said we're going to do and we will keep doing what we say it was going to do.
And so I think there's there was enough discussion by the weather in everyone of course -- we are not going to talk about weather. Other than weather we have a very good niche market and we are very blessed and optimistic on that.
You bet.