Marc Bitzer
Marc Bitzer
Whirlpool Corporation (WHR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hello. Good morning, Sam.
Sam, it's Marc. Let me first maybe take the raw material question, then we can come to the margin question. First of all, I know you're well aware, but more for our broad audience, our number one raw material buy is steel, number two is resins in all forms, and then it can split up in smaller elements. As you know, in '23, we got a tailwind from raw materials, and right now, we're guiding pretty much for almost no effect of this one.
Raw material, again, as I mentioned, steel is the number one driver, and there is no -- you don't have formal hedging contracts with steel. You basically have contract with individual steel suppliers, which are regional, and they typically are on an annual basis, certainly for US, less so in Latin America, but also in Europe, you have pretty much annual contract. These annual contracts, and that's why we have a very high degree of confidence in raw material assumption, they are largely locked-in now. So, typically, these negotiations happen November, December in that timeline, and they're not done of a -- kind of on the spot CRU spot price, they're kind of done more on rolling averages and certain assumptions about flow and color.
So, with all these contracts -- the majority of these contracts fully in place, again with the exception of Latin America, the variation which we expect from a steel price is very, very little. So that's why on the number one component we have a very high degree of certainty. The number two component, resins, they are more on a quarterly base, and obviously, there is an element about oil price assumptions in there which you have a little bit more variation, but again, it's relative to steel, it's much smaller.
So, again, these two components, Sam, we feel we're either contractually protected, or right now we have, certainly in plastics, I think we have a reasonable assumption for a full year.
Yeah. So, Sam, the North America margin in Q4, we posted the 8.4% roughly, and we referred to a full year base. KitchenAid typically has an impact of about 40 basis points on our margin business in North America. Now that's a little bit of seasonality in KitchenAid with a heavy skew towards Q3 and Q4. So, you take that out of the equation, you're pretty much exiting -- in '23, we were exiting around 8% roughly, North American margin, which as we talked, that's about a good 1 point below where we wanted to be, in all transparency. We guide the full year excluding KitchenAid on 9%, and I think also in our prepared remarks we were referring to we expect to exit '24 with around 10% North America margin.
Good morning, Michael.
Michael, it's Marc. So, let me try to address it. Let me first take a little bit of the Q4 in the rear mirror on North America, because I think that highlights a lot of challenges and opportunities which we have. And then, as much as we can talk, I can give you a broader direction on '24.
So, if you look back at Q4 '23, in particular North America, ultimately, it comes down to the amount -- the absolute amount of marketing and promotion dollars we put in the market are not unusual compared to pre-COVID. The big difference was that the lift we had on discretionary demand was very limited. So, ultimately, in hindsight, the ROI on some of the promotions did not work out the way we expected. So, as you know, we repeatedly talked about, we focused on value-creation promotions, and in hindsight, some of these promotions did not meet that benchmark. It's just because the discretionary demand of a pool of discretionary demand in the market was limited, so the whole equation got unbalanced, and that led to some margin erosion in Q4.
As I also said, as we look into '24, and as you know, we don't give any forward-looking comments on pricing, et cetera, but I said our focus is on margin expansion. I mentioned the exit margins are below where we want it to be. Right now, our focus is on margin expansion, obviously deploying all levers which are at our disposal; that's cost takeout, that's pricing, how we manage our mix, how we manage new product introduction. But the focus is on margin expansion, and that is in the context of, we feel good about our share gains. And right now, the level of share where will come from gives us a solid base, and we will at least for a foreseeable future, we are focused on margin expansion.
Yeah, Mike, I can take this. And first of all, apart from the supplement, that we will spend a lot more time on February 27th in our Investor Day to show you a little bit of a history of KitchenAid, the margin run rates, the seasonality. So, there will be a lot more color to your question.
So, on a high level right now, the seasonality is similar to what you described. So, there is more skew towards the back half around the holidays. But even in the first half, there are some important holidays which always matter for KitchenAid, like -- and we manage accordingly.
The broader margins, and again, we will show that in the supplement that you will see soon, are 15.5% which we guide to '24, is slightly higher than the '23 one. But even if I look at a multi-year KitchenAid SDA margin, it typically hovers around 15% EBIT. So, it's a very solid and margin-accretive business for us, which, of course, we want to grow significantly more going forward.
Hi, Susan.
So, Susan, just to echo what Jim is saying, and to be really crystal clear, we will -- we have and we will continue to invest heavily in new products and brand investments. Last year, despite all the pressure, we invested 75 basis points more into new product marketing and technology. We will continue to do so in '24. And as you've seen also in capital plans, we are prepared to invest in new products. That's ultimately the lifeblood of our company and creates future growth.
At the same time, we're also very mindful that we got to create the funds for that. And these funds, to Jim's point, they come from carryover actions. They come from manufacturing efficiency. And, frankly, after the Europe transaction is closed, we have a simpler business, and we will take advantage of relooking at our SG&A base in terms of how can we take advantage of now what it's globally a much simpler and easy business where we don't need to have all the complexity in its current structure.
Hey, David.
Yeah. So, David, I mean, first of all, the 1 point or 1.1 point, to be precise, full year gains in North America -- and the good thing is they're spread across multiple product categories. So, it's basically not a single product category where we would point to share weakness, we grew across the board. Obviously, a number of new product introductions helped and supported that share growth. The other element which partially helped but is not yet fully visible, we had significant share growth in the National Builder business, but obviously because the broader market is still soft, that is not yet fully showing, but that's a big source of share gains. So, it's pretty much across the board. I wouldn't point to specific price points.
Now, against the context of a broader market, and this is coming back to what I think we mentioned also in the last earnings call, the nature of a market which is now so heavily impacted by the replacement markets, again, with 60% of our sales right now of the total market, which is much more than past, replacement market inherently comes with a slightly lower margin profile than discretionary demand. It's just what it is, because consumer either look for specific dimensions or they're in a rush. They only have one or two days to make decisions, so that typically comes with a lower margin profile.
So, I wouldn't point to specific price points where we gain market share, but the broader market being so heavily replacement driven, that doesn't necessarily help you from a price/mix compared to previous periods.
Yes, David. Yes, this is a net number like we always put on the net cost line. And so, again, yeah, it takes more in gross actions to get to this number as we have to offset inflation in certain areas and especially in some of our higher-growth, emerging markets outside the US, but this is a net $300 million to $400 million.
And, Mike, maybe just give you a little bit more color and coming back to what I mentioned before, essentially, when you look back at Q4 North America, the industry sell-through was softer than most people expected, okay? And it comes back to, yeah, the amount of discretionary demand out there was not as high as people expected. That led to both, the return on investment on market promotions was just not attractive; and two, it also led to higher inventories of our retailers relative to what we had in mind in industry sell-through.
And as Jim mentioned earlier, I think that will impact somewhat the shipments, the industry shipments in Q1 and maybe to a lesser extent Q2. From everything -- and, of course, we don't have precise sellout data from competitors, but from everything which we see from a broader industry, it certainly was not a Whirlpool-specific issue. This was across the board. And right now, it just means a little bit of inventory overhang as we enter the industry in Q1, but again, that we will work through.
Jason, it's Marc. So, obviously, in particular with our heavy footprint on the Americas, the impact for Americas is less. Yes, there's some -- it impacted a little bit some of the East Coast shipments, not so much in cost, more in time. So, there's a one or two weeks later time. It could and will start impacting the European business. Right now, we're still in pretty good shape for Europe, but obviously, that brings uncertainty more on the European supply chain to much, much less extent of the North America supply chain.
Container costs have been so far pretty stable for us. Again, also put a bit of context, they came from excessively high rates in the COVID and post-COVID environment and now to more normalized rate, and the broader impact of the mix is limited. Keep also in mind, compared to any of our competitors, we are much more North America and Americas production based. So, relatively speaking, the container cost impact us a whole lot less than most of our competitors.
Yeah. So, Jason, I mean, first of all, split into two pieces. There's finished products and there's components. On finished products, our exposure is relatively small. We import microwave food combination and some refrigerators into the Americas and into Europe, and some dishwashers also into Europe. So, on finished products, it's actually, frankly, in particular for Americas, not a very big number.
Components, in particular in electronics, you have exposure, like everybody else, to China or broader Asia, I would say, because it's not just China, it's also Vietnam, Thailand, et cetera. Again, back to my early comments, in the competitive landscape, we're by long shot, the least exposed to China. And it's just because of our historic strong footprint in the Americas, our focus on producing in Americas and sourcing from Americas, except for electronics where you just have a limited supply base in the Americas.
And Eric, just maybe adding a comment on -- to Jim's point, to put it simply, the $550 million to $650 million cash flow, excluding Europe, on a normalized basis, it would translate into $800 million-plus. That's essentially what it means, because we have to unwind these working capital financing activities and some other elements. So that's what it really means.
Now, to your second point about the margin progress, and again, I want to also highlight our upcoming Investor Day where we give an update with the segments about our mid and long-term value-creation goals. But in short, and Eric, that's consistent with what we said before, we absolutely don't see any reason why the margins which we have pre-COVID are not in sight. So, i.e., in particular for North America, for years, we have been operating on 12% or 12%-plus operating margin in North America, and that's certainly what we see absolutely possible.
Right now, we're working through. I mean, as you all can see, it's a very negative macro cycle. I mean, our industry is heavily impacted by existing home sales, and existing home sales in the course of 20 months went from 6 million-plus units to 3.7 million. So, that's impacting us. But we know how to work through these cycles, and that's why we're very confident that we, over time, can reestablish these margins as we were experiencing them before. But again, much more perspective on this one at our Investor Day.
I guess with that, we've come pretty much to the end of our session. First of all, I want to thank you all for joining us today. And I think, I mean, really hopefully what you heard is, we feel good about where we are from our market share perspective. We also feel good about our ability to take out cost as we demonstrated in '23 and as we are confident for '24. And we frankly feel good about how we step by step restrengthen our balance sheet and where we are from a broader funding and balance sheet perspective.
I think all these elements set us up very well for working through a macro cycle, which we all see that. That's certainly going to impact the industry negatively in Q1 and probably also to some extent in Q2. But, again, we come from a very strong platform. We know how to work through these cycles, and we have, I think, the right actions in place to particularly also, once you look at the back half of '24, have a very attractive business.
So, with that in mind, again, I want to remind everybody, February 27th, that's where you will see a lot more perspective, in particular about our North America business, in particular about our KitchenAid SDA business, which we historically didn't put a lot of light on or didn't show you a lot, and we will also talk quite a bit about balance sheet and cash flow development. So, again, February 27th, and looking forward to see you all. Thank you.