Bill Nash
Bill Nash
CarMax, Inc. (KMX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure. Good morning, Michael. Yes, on the retail and wholesale GPU, obviously, they did come in stronger. I think the wholesale benefited a little bit we saw some appreciation in the latter part of the quarter, which when that generally happens, we usually trail whether it goes up or comes down. So I think that added a little bit of favorability there. I think as you go forward thinking about wholesale, I would land probably more in the line of where we've been historically $900 to $1,000.
On the retail side again, we did expansive price elasticity testing and determined that we could have sold a few more cars, but we actually would have made less money. So we held the retail GPUs, they're pretty similar to the third quarter. They were up year-over-year and that's more of a function of the fact that we continue to have a higher mix of older vehicles, which carry a little bit more margin. I think just in the retail pricing environment in totality, we did see some depreciation at the beginning of the quarter, we saw a little bit of appreciation at the latter part.
If you go back a year ago, not this year, they just completed the year before, prices appreciated about $7,500 and that's in the zero to five-year old cars this year. By the end of the calendar year, they had come back about $5,000, I would expect, even though we've seen some recent appreciation, I would expect to probably start to see a little bit more depreciation as we go forward. So that should continue to give a little bit of relief on the overall retail sales price.
Sure.
Corless, I think we may have lost Craig.
Yes, we can hear you, Craig. Go ahead.
Yes. I think it's hard to say, I mean, what I would tell you is because our self-sufficiency is so high, we just really haven't had an issue on sourcing environment. It's not like we're going out and competing in the auction lanes as much as we used to. I think it remains to be seeing what the impact is on competitors and where they get their funding. I guess theoretically, it could cause prices to go down if they are not able to source financing to keep inventory on the lot. But that remains to be seen.
Yes.
Yes, Rajat, thanks for the question. Look, we're certainly not economists, but I think there's some publications and I think like COGS for example has the used market overall being down a little bit this year. I think you also have it softer in the front part, I mean, softer in the front part a little bit better in the back half. I think that's kind of the way we think about it as well, but that remains to be seen. And as always on the market share, our goal is whether the market is a good market or a bad market. We want to gain profitable market share and I spoke to just the transitory pressures that we continue to see in this quarter as it relates to market share. But given previous experiences, we would expect that to turn and then we'd get back into gaining market share.
Sure.
Good morning.
Yes, everyone. Thanks for the question. I'll give you my thoughts first and I'm sure Enrique will have some thoughts as well. But you're exactly right, we are -- send in the message that we expect this to be at a lower rate going forward. And if you think about the past few years, every year we update and say, okay, this is what it's going to take to lever and we're running that five day in this past year, prior year we said, hey, it's going require more than that, because of the investments we knew we were making plus some of the carryover investments. We hadn't been giving longer term guidance, because quite honestly, while many companies have gone from a pure brick and mortar to more of an omnichannel, there really hasn't been any other example of companies doing that with what I call considered purchase where there's a lot of back and forth between physical and digital properties.
And so I almost equate this to renovating an old house, which unfortunately haven't experienced with that too. You don't know what you don't know until you get into it. And every time you pull down a wall in old house there's some new surprise there. Well, with this, every time we would turnover a rock as it related to the omnichannel experience, there were two other rocks underneath it. And I think what we've gotten to the point of is that we've built out our product organization. We feel really good about the resources there. We've got the base of the capabilities. Now it's about enhancing, and then as we enhance and finish some things, we'll shift people to work on different things. So we feel good about the resources that we have at this point.
And I'll let Enrique add any other…
And Sharon, the only other thing I would add to that is, and Enrique said this in his comments, it can vary quarter-to-quarter. You may be up in some quarters, you may be down in some other quarters and that will really be dictated by some of the ROI that we're seeing. We're always going to have some brand spend out there, because I think it's important long-term.
So the other thing I think of note here is that when we think about advertising, we also -- it's not just about customer acquisition, it’s also about vehicle acquisition. So there may be sometimes we spend up a little bit more in trying to buy cars from consumer. So again, we'll continue to monitor this.
Thank you.
Yes, great question, Scot, and welcome back to the call.
It's -- we see the traffic top of funnel, so it's not top of funnel. The degradation really happens at the conversion point and which can make sense as you find a car that you like, you start working through and all of a sudden you realize, wow, that monthly payment is more than I can afford and then you see where they fall out, which is the reason why we've been talking about vehicle affordability is one of the biggest factors that impact our sales. So it's all about conversion, not necessarily top of funnel.
Yes, the interest is definitely there. And I think some of the web traffic continued strength in the web traffic is also because of the finance based shopping product that Jon just talk to people just trying to figure out what can I afford? Maybe they're not ready to buy a car, but maybe they're just looking to see what can I afford?
Thanks, Scot.
Good morning.
Yes. And Daniel, the only other thing I would add to that is even as we -- as business returns, we're heavily focused on finding efficiencies. The business model has really changed within the store with omni. So we're looking at more efficiencies in the CEC, so as more volume comes in, CECs don't have to grow as fast. We've already taken -- we've reduced the sales force, because of the CECs, because customers are coming more progress, which is another reason why we're really focused on this self-progression, the more customers can progress on their own, our floor sales consultants can handle more associates.
So as we think about the future model, we're trying to get efficiencies not only at the corporate side, which we feel pretty good about the teams we've got there, but also just become more efficient in the field operations.
Yes. And I think Daniel on that, keep in mind part of the omni transformation is we've gone from an organization that worked with all legacy systems that really didn't cost us anything to a combination of systems that we built in-house, but also software-as-a-service. And software-as-a-service is an expense that we used to not have. So things like software-as-a-service, the product organization that we built out, we've got 60 product teams that really enable having this omni channel experience both to have the store and the digital. So that expense isn't going away. We didn't use to have that expense.
Theoretically, the CECs will be offset with the sale. So that should watch, but there are the things like cybersecurity that because we have so much of a digital presence now you had to step up your spend there. So there are some things which is why to Enrique’s point, our first goal is, hey, let's get back to the 70s because we know we've got some headwinds on things that we didn't use to have and then we'll continue to work on taking it below there.
Thank you.
Yes. Good morning, Seth. Yes, I think the market dynamics did help, because again, we were doing pricing elasticity tests and as I said earlier, we could have sold some more cars, but overall profitability would have been down. So I think that, that did help. Now as far as going forward, I think, I'd probably get more in the range of where we historically. I think, you know, part of it will depend on what the macro factors, because we'll continue to test elasticity. But if you think about we've been, kind of, in the 2,100 to -- roughly 2,100, 2,150 22,000 in that range. I would think somewhere in that range is probably a good target to think about for the upcoming year. But again, it's going to be dependent on what we see from the market factors.
Yes. No, it's a great question. And again, we've always said this idea of proper market share and that hasn't changed. You know, if I look at the market share for 2022 relatively flat. You can argue it was slightly up, but we call it relatively flat. For the first-half of the year, we saw good market share gains. In fact, most several of the months were double-digit gains. We hit August, August, I would call was fairly flat, and then we saw declining gains really from September through December. And we've seen this before, if I go back to ’08, ’09, if I go back to COVID, although they're very different circumstances, we've seen where we've lost market share for a period of time, then it flattens out. We start from a month-over-month, we start to grow it back. We get back to where we were before we started and then we continue to increase. I would expect this to not be any different.
I'm encouraged as I look at the data that we have so far, if you look at August through or really September through December, it was decreasing market shares month-over-month. I think December, January, my hope is we've kind of bottomed out there. We don't have the February data yet, but I'm hoping that we bottomed out, which means that, okay, market share should from month-over-month will still be probably below year-over-year, but we should start to climb back out.
Sure.
Yes. And Chris, I would just add to that the planned spend for the capacity, it's no different than what we've done in the past. We used to build production stores as we're going into new markets. Well, what we've been doing here lately, because we haven't opened up a bunch of production stores, we've been leveraging the existing production. So we had planned to add capacity. So it's really no different than what we've done in the past. It just happens to be okay now is time that we start to do some additional production builds. And the really only difference is that some of them will not be attached to stores, but still in close proximity to stores, because that's a big competitive advantage.
Yes. No, it's a good question. We just want to make sure that we're both maximizing the experience for our dealers, as well as maximizing the ultimate price that our cars sell for. And so we're just doing small tests just to see, hey, having a -- both a physical sale, but also virtually broadcasting it, are there new dealers that might show up? Or do you get extra bid. So we -- in our efforts to make sure we're being efficient as possible, we don't want to leave any [Indiscernible] unturned. So I don't really think about it as a big SG&A spend, because a lot of -- like the testing that we're doing is what I would call more of a post card sale. So you actually have the cars running through, but you have the auction lane open for folks to bid in that kind of thing. So again, small tests, we're going to continue to see what we can learn. But to your point, we feel great about the margins what we can put on cars. But again, we always are looking to get a little better.
Thank you.
And John, on the market share the six, 10, remember, we always measure market share zero to 10. I do think six to 10 is an opportunity. I mean, if you look at our recent sales like even this quarter, vehicle is over six years over 60,000 miles. If I look at where we were year-over-year, we're probably 10 points higher, we're probably high 30s as a percent of sale. The real question will be is prices come down. Do consumers start to go back to newer model vehicles? So we'll see, I think we're in a great position. We obviously have shown that we can acquire those vehicles and recondition them. So it's a great lever as we go forward.
Yes, I think so. But again, some of it will be just on consumer demand. If the folks that are coming into our stores are looking for later model vehicles, lower mileage, we're certainly going to put more of those on our lot, so we'll manage to whatever the consumer is looking for.
Yes. Thank you.
Yes, I think, Chris, it's a little early, because the vehicles we're selling right now, we sourced in the last quarter. So I don't think it's really going to impact up to this point what your retail ASPs are. So I would think about this quarter right now, our retail ASPs are probably similar to what they were for the quarter. And again, we had a little bit of appreciation that we saw there. Keep in mind that the depreciation flows through much quickly on the wholesale cars, because you're turning those -- that inventory every seven days.
Yes.
And those are -- David, those are long-term lenders that we already have that we're pulling in [Multiples Speakers]
Great. Thank you. I want to thank everybody for joining the call and your questions and support. I do want to congratulate all the associates again on being named a great place to work for 19-years in a row. And like I said earlier, we believe we're well positioned to navigate this environment and emerge even stronger. We look forward to talking with everyone next quarter. Take care.