Christopher Kubasik
Christopher Kubasik
L3Harris Technologies, Inc. (LHX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, good morning, Scott.
All right. Thanks, Scott. Yeah, talking about IMS, if we look at 2023, you'll see that we did improve margins in the second half compared to the first half. And as we've talked about, it is a little bit of a lumpy business based on the timing of aircraft purchases. We laid out at Investor Day that our strategy in the near term here was really to continue to have stability, especially with the program performance and focus on margin improvement. So to answer your question specifically, here in the short-term, we are seeing better program performance and I think that's what gives us confidence and opportunities not only for 2024 but the next several years. The attrition is definitely slowing down. We've been successful in hiring new people, training new employees, and I think that's starting to be reflected in our performance. And equally as important, the suppliers, and maybe more specifically in this case our subcontractors' performance is starting to improve as we got through those macroeconomic disruptions. The bidding rigor is improving, we've lowered the delegations of authority, so more bids are being reviewed. Not only at the segment level but the corporate level and we have at least one instance in the fourth quarter where we no bid a fixed price development program, and I've been talking about this for at least a year and we will continue to no bid programs where the contract type does not appropriate for the risks we're assuming and I said it in December and I'll say it again. I will sacrifice revenue for earnings and cash every day of the year and we will continue to do so until that changes. And of course, we're making structural changes to the business. In the midterm, I see upside to the margins as we're going to grow internationally at IMS. We're looking at about 25% international this year. I see that getting into the 30% range in a couple of years, driven by WESCAM and international business jets. In fact, this quarter already European customer has awarded $300 million award to us for aircraft missionization and that will be accretive to our margins. And then when we, sure, we will talk more about LHX NeXt in the time that remains but I think this segment is clearly ripe for opportunities. We laid out the fact despite all the good work we've done in the last four years, we still have 100 facilities. We still have eight different ERP vendors and we have 24 reporting units. I did mention that 10 of those in my comments were migrated into one. So we're making progress and the team has taken action, takes some investment on our part, but I like the momentum in the path that we're on. So maybe with that, Ken, you want to?
Hi. Good morning, Doug.
Yeah, Doug. Let me take that one. Yeah, let me start with where we are on margins. I mean, we have well-documented that our margins have declined in the last couple of years. We acknowledge we have had some performance issues across the portfolio. But I also want to mention that we have consciously made investments in some high-growth programs and businesses, which impacted the margins in the short-term, but we believe create value in the long-term, and I think Space is probably the best example that we keep highlighting in that regard. Investor Day we did step up our cost savings goal to $1 billion gross run-rate savings by the end of '26 that goes across the entire enterprise. We're calling that program LHX NeXt, as you well know. And look, I agree with you that there's differences by segments for a variety of reasons, and we're setting out a framework, three years out. So we put the 100 -- the 100 basis points is kind of the floor. If I go through or maybe in the -- in some form of order relative to the ability to realize the 100 basis points either earlier or exceeded, I'd like to start with Communication Systems. I think we all know that that has a commercial business model and the potential for more international growth. I think those will be key drivers. We run that like a commercial factory where we make the radios. We look at the quality, the cost of poor quality, the real throughput yield. We're making investments in equipment and training that gives us potential upside. And in that regard, pretty much every dollar falls to the bottom line. We're also looking at the models and seeing if we can be more aggressive on increasing our software sales as an example in addition to the hardware. So, CS would probably be at the top of my list. Aerojet Rocketdyne, we've only had it for five months. We're starting to see some improvements. Big, big volume increase, big investment in capacity, and negotiating the new contracts. Maybe I'll just mention now since owning them, we've already turned in 200 proposals for over $13 billion. Of course, we have to win them and negotiate them, but clearly, the demand is outweighing the supply. So feel good about the potential there, and the ability to return to their historical margins or even better. Scott asked about IMS. I think I laid that out. I think there's upside there with the shift to international. Again, we have the WESCAM business that provides designs and builds and delivers turrets or cameras or gimbals, whatever you want to call them. Again, that's a commercial business model which has accretive margins to the business and end of the day, it comes down to stabilizing the volatility and the program performance, and I think with some leadership changes and better negotiations on new contracts, we should be in a better shape there. And then, of course, Space or SAS, it does have the highest mix of cost plus contracts, Doug, as you know. So most of those savings go back to the customer. But again, the investments that we've made to get into some of these new markets, such as Space, will be decreasing or have decreased. So I don't know if that gives you a little more granularity. I think as we get closer to 2026, we'll be able to be more specific, but the 100 basis points is the floor, and that's kind of my order of how I'd put them. I don't know, Ken, if you agree or have different thoughts there.
Yeah. Space, we keep talking about Space and highlighting. That is kind of the model for our trusted disruptor strategy. So we've one -- we're really just on the tracking for SDA. So we won tranche zero, we won tranche one. And as I mentioned just a couple of weeks ago, we were awarded tranche two. So I think we've gone from four satellites to eight satellites to 18, so and there will be a tranche three and beyond, I would expect. I can tell you that in each of those successive contracts, the margins that we bid and expect have increased, which was part of our strategy. So the team is performing well. We have satellites waiting to be launched. So we're looking at these annuity-long cycle constellations, and we've talked about the missions really migrating from the air domain to the space domain, and I think we're seeing it here. And these satellites will have single-digit useful lives, and they'll need to be repopulated over time. So I kind of look at this as an annuity where in several years, the tranche zero satellites will deorbit and they'll need additional satellites to be launched. So three for three. Quite proud of the team, and I think our customer is obviously pleased with our performance. I did mention we do have a pretty good business in weather satellite, so it was exciting to see us get some international opportunities. You don't necessarily see that all the time in the Space business. So that's some additional growth. And we still provide payloads for exquisite satellites where we're a sub to the primes. Most of those are classified. So pretty good backlog. We also mentioned it at Investor Day. We're investing in building a satellite factory here in Florida and that ground has been broken and we're excited about that. So we'll be able to turn satellites at a pretty quick pace here in the near term.
Good morning, David .
All right, David. No, good questions. Yeah, so if I look at SAS, we have several sectors there, two of them, relatively large are flat. The air domain that we've talked about is a flat business. It's a good business with good margins. This is where we perform on mission systems for F-35, F-16, F-18, some classified platforms, but a relatively flat market. And as I just mentioned, those missions are migrating into Space in some cases. So that's how we see that playing out. Mission Networks, which does a lot of work for the FAA, is a very solid business. Good margins, but that's traditionally a pretty flat business for the foreseeable future, especially given some of the budget pressures at the FAA. So that's two of our segments or two of our sectors. Space is growing and Intel and Cyber are growing as well. Just as an aside, I mentioned a lot of this -- more of this business is cost plus than most. So as we continue to reduce cost, I think, David, sometimes -- not sometimes, it always does ultimately reduce your revenue a little bit as well. So the good news of taking out costs, you get higher margins. And as continue to say revenue is interesting, but I'll take margins and cash and EBIT every day, and that's a little bit of the headwind. So that's how I see SAS coming out where it does. And second question on Aerojet Rocketdyne, interesting that you say that, because nobody really knows what their 2023 revenue is. We will disclose that in the 10-K, they only reported the first quarter. There were four months that weren't reported, and then we reported the five months. Anyway, when you see those numbers, you will see that we're right around 5% top-line growth, 2024, compared to the pro-former 2023. Aerojet disclosed three months, we disclosed five. The four fell through the cracks just based on how the accounting works. So we'll put that all in there, and you'll see the 5% growth.
Yeah, I'll take the first part. Ask Ken to chime in on the second part. Yeah, the $50 million, we did go quickly to realize it. It obviously was a little more lower-hanging fruit than not, but it still takes a lot of time and effort, and we execute it, and we absolutely expect to get a little more out relative to what I'd call the integration. I mean, there's more work to do on the IT systems and tools. We have already aligned them on policies and procedures. All the personnel are already on our payroll systems, our benefit plans, and that type of stuff. So, yeah, we think there's probably an additional $20 million or $30 million that we can get that I would call integration. That will just roll into LHX NeXt. But Ken?
And I'll just chime in, Peter, the continuing resolution. While we've had one every year since 2010, and I think we in the industry know how to deal with it, it does tend to slow things down, really, from a customer perspective. So as I mentioned, we are under a CR through March. Hopefully we'll get a defense budget and eleven other appropriation bills passed so we can get back to normal. But that causes a little bit of the slow start, unfortunately, like it does pretty much every year for the last 13.
Hey, Seth.
Yeah, let me take that. We actually had a pretty -- we had a great year in CS and especially tactical radios specifically. The interesting thing here, as we talk about the margins, is really the mix between the DoD and the International. So when I looked at the first two quarters, we were heavily weighted towards International versus domestic and then it flipped again in Q3, Q4. And we'll start 2024 with a little more domestic deliveries than commercial, and then it flips in the back half. So we had a record year when it came to revenue in TCOM. I think the business is really coming together quite nicely. We've overcome most of the supply chain challenges. I know when we talked in the past, we literally had hundreds of key suppliers that we were tracking. Now we're down to just a handful. So the results are getting better. We're getting dual sources. And in fact, we've recently had some wins in some new markets that we've been informed of. We're not authorized to disclose them quite yet, but there's a lot of good news coming out of TCOM.
Good morning.
Yes. Thanks, Rob. Let me start -- cover a couple of things and work in specifically your question. The demand, I mentioned earlier, there's more demand than there is supply, which is a great thing when we look back on the acquisition. And to repeat myself, 200 proposals for $13 billion is something we would have never expected in just a six-month period. The infrastructure, great progress. We've got the $50 million. We've got the policies. We've got the personnel. The IT systems are in work. And in fact on the talent front, the attrition at Aerojet Rocketdyne has dropped by 1/3 overall and 50% for the engineers. We do these regular surveys. There's just a lot of enthusiasm and excitement about the acquisition, the strategy. And I think it's a tribute to the team that shows how we successfully have integrated them and welcomed them into L3Harris. Going back to the demand, it's all about capacity. We've talked about the DPA investment for $216 million focused on GMLRS and Javelin and Stinger. In fact, we've already acquired a building in Huntsville, Alabama. Our capacity and footprint there is 4x and that will ultimately -- it is, but it will ultimately be our inert center of excellence, which is great. The challenges are really at the sub-tier suppliers, as you said. I don't think it makes a lot of sense to bring them in-house. We've actually invested in some of these, not as an ownership, but by helping them with tooling and capital. Our customers have also -- our end customer and our immediate prime customers have also invested. So as we've said, there's a little bit of a chokepoint here at the sub-tier. Personally, I think over time, a third solid rocket motor provider is fine. We don't shy away from competition. But that doesn't really solve the problem because at the end of the day, everybody's going to be going to the same sub-tiers, for the cases, for the igniters, for the nozzles and such. So we have to fix the sub-tier. We're doing our part by helping them out financially, getting the equipment, improving their -- the capacity. And we started to see it. There is a big well documented, I think, we call it backlog or undelivered motors, and we're chipping away at that, as I mentioned. And once we get these facilities and equipment up and running, I think it's going to look pretty good. And, yes, there's a lot of people trying to get into this market now, which is fine. It's a high-growth market, and in my mind, reaffirms the rationale and the value potential from this acquisition.
Hi, Sheila.
Yes. Thanks for the question. I mean, obviously, the broader margin implication is we tend to have higher margins in international than domestic, just like we do with commercial. So I see an increase -- slight increase year-over-year. We're kind of hanging around the 22%, 23% of our revenue comes from international, maybe a little uptick in '24, '25 and '26. But every point helps. I think it comes down to this -- the one that's going to move the needle a little bit is going to be the supplementals. And we haven't talked a whole lot about DC in the budget. But there is a supplemental out there for Ukraine, Taiwan and Israel put out last year for $110 billion. I think about $58 billion is targeted for the DoD. It's all tied up in politics as it relates to border security. But I think at the end of the day, we need to get these things passed because it's really just backfilling the stockpile that we've already given into several of the countries I mentioned. So hopefully, we get that behind us, and that will solidify our growth opportunities in those regions specifically. So as I look at each of the segments. Aerojet, as you know, most of that goes through a couple of primes. So we actually don't have any international revenue the way we disclose it for Aerojet, notwithstanding that several of these products get deployed from -- but from our perspective, we just sell them to two or three primes and then they put them wherever they need to go. So we just call that domestic for what that's worth. IMS, I talked about WESCAM and bizjets, I see upside there. SAS, it's really given the classified nature of so many things they do. We have an occasional space satellite, like I mentioned, in Japan. Some of the avionics stuff goes international as well. And then CS has the highest percentage of international mainly coming out of the tactical radio business. And when I look at what we've done in Ukraine and what's needed in Europe and the Mid-East and the Far East, it's looking rather positive. So I hope that help, Sheila.
Good morning.
Yes. Good question, Robert. Look, we've all been in this industry for decades, and it kind of goes in cycles where everybody thought fixed-price development programs was a good idea in the '70s and '80s, and then it migrates back to cost-plus and goes the other way. Just kind of have to understand where the customer is and figure out where they're going. There's lots of opportunities to interface with them. We're we've been successful with our commercial business models that I've mentioned. I think there's more that we can look at in that regard. I think more and more things are moving towards software, and I think it's a new area. I think the DoD has to figure out how to buy software and we have to figure out how to sell software. There have been some cases where it's done. But again, that's probably a different business model than your traditional cost-plus, truth in negotiation type regulations may not make sense. And I think that's what a lot of the new entrants are also struggling with, to figure out how to get into those markets. So look, we all get to draft RFPs. We review them, we push back and sometimes you just have to no-bid. And one of these days, the entire industry is not going to bid on a fixed-price development contract and the DoD will change. But when you get one or two bids, they're going to make the award, and we're doing our best to balance the risk with the financial upside that we have, so probably a little more disciplined. But this has been an ongoing debate probably for decades, and we continue to engage with the customer, and I think they appreciate and understand where the industry is coming from. So we'll see what happens in the months and years ahead.
So look, before I sign off, I really would like to take a moment and thank our 50,000 employees for their focus on performance and execution throughout the year. Clearly, this is impossible without them, and they're critical to our success in meeting not only our shareholders, but our customer commitments. So really appreciate everybody joining the call. Ken, again, welcome to the team. And we'll be talking to you all soon. Thanks.