1Vicki Hollub
Vicki Hollub
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (OXY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, as you notice, by virtue of all the M&A that’s happening, there’s a lot of appetite for companies to try to get into the Permian and we do have properties in the Permian that are not core to us but could be core to others and some of it just where they’re placed in the Permian geographically and how they’re not as cored up as some of our key areas. So the divestitures, I believe, will go well. What we won’t do, though, is we’ve decided not to make any divestitures until we close the CrownRock acquisition and then we’ll start a proactive process more aggressively at that point.
So -- thank you. Appreciate it, Neil. That was time very well spent. They made use of all the time that they had to do things that we needed to do.
Well, depending on what actually is divested, we can’t really give you an estimate of what that is today. Some things are changing in terms of what we’re looking at. So I think that it would be very difficult to put the number out there at this point.
Anything that’s material, we wouldn’t likely do. We’re trying to minimize the cash flows sold to ensure that we can maintain our cash flow. With that said, there will be some cash flow going, because it’s hard to sell any assets out here that we haven’t already at least done appraisal work on to generate some cash flow.
So if you look at our -- what we’ve said we’ll spend in oil and gas is $4.8 billion to $5 billion in 2024, that -- part of that will be spent on, as we mentioned, some of the mid-cycle projects that generate oil production at a later date. For example, the Permian EOR, investing in that would generate the oil and gas production from that in about the third year after we started. So that will be a bit delayed.
Gulf of Mexico, some of those are also preparing us for the future. So the mid-cycle investments will not impact this year’s production. The potentially 2.2% increase will be based on the spending of the $4.9 billion, if you use the mid-cycle price, less than $4.8 billion. And then when you look at what’s being spent in our oil and gas operations minus that amount, you still have some of that going for our facilities.
I think it speaks well to what the teams have done with respect to productivity and getting more out of the wells that we can actually spend what’s really less than half that billion that you mentioned on oil and gas activities and then some of that will be for facilities. So, we’re actually getting a 2% growth rate from some of what we’ve developed in 2023, going over to 2024 and then the high productivity that we’re getting out of our development.
It’s really exciting what the teams have done and thank you for the question.
I think the bulk of the additions were from our Permian Resources business. I think the -- I think just essentially most of it was. We had some revisions from productivity improvements in other areas, but the bulk was from Permian EOR, where I think, Richard, if you look at your reserve replacement ratio just for onshore, that was pretty significant.
And I would add the other place where we did add significant reserves was Algeria. As a result of the team’s work to get all the 18 contracts merged into one and then extended. So that was great work done by the Algeria team to add reserves there. But the thing I’m most proud of is, while the bulk of the reserves came from those two sources, the Permian and Algeria, and a little bit from the DJ, every business unit we have increased reserves except for Al Hosn where we had already booked quite a bit of reserves because of the modeling work done there to get that estimate more refined.
Thank you.
Hi, David.
I would say that over the next 5 years to 10 years, it’s going to be a significant part of our portfolio development. We have 2 billion barrels of resources remaining to be developed and we believe that as a result of our Direct Air Capture facilities that we ultimately will build to get CO2 out of the atmosphere, it’s going to be the most sustainable barrels in the world.
It’s going to be a resource that the world needs to get to leave 30% or 40% of oil in conventional reservoirs, and 90% of oil in shale reservoirs is just not acceptable. And for the United States to continue our energy independence, EOR is going to have to be a part of the equation.
Ultimately, we’re getting way ahead of the game here to be sure that we’re ready, because we do believe that the climate transition would not be affordable for the world without EOR being able to produce net zero carbon barrels of oil.
So this is a huge part of our strategy and important not only to our shareholders who love value, but to the U.S., and ultimately, to other parts of the world. And for the nearer term, a forecast on what we can do, Richard has some data on that.
The discussions with the DoE are continuing and going quite well. That -- where we -- the timing of the start of the front-end engineering and design will be dependent on the completion of some of those discussions and then the discussions will continue beyond that on getting prepared for the start of construction. But there is a timeline there that we’re working through.
Well, some of our teams felt like they’d asked for everything. But I can tell you our teams are working diligently to work with the team at the FTC to get them all the answers that they need. So it’s -- we’re progressing and hope to, as we said, be able to close in the second half of this year.
I didn’t -- well, I didn’t see the moon on there, but we’re not done yet.
Well, when you look at it on a corporate level, what we’re really trying to do is balance our investments over time so that we can have a sustainable growing dividend. And it’s -- we’ve got this unique balance that I think makes it for us different than many other companies and we want to take full advantage of it. And I want to let Richard and Sunil chime in on their views on it, because this is a critical part of what differentiates us.
Yeah. I’ll pass that to Richard.
Yes. That’s what we figured on that. But the CrownRock does that acquisition. Once we get our debt back down to $15 billion, that’s going to be a key part of helping us then to start the resumption of a more robust share of purchase program of both the common and ultimately the preferred.
Thank you.
No. Actually, we would -- we’re going to accumulate cash flow as we continue to work toward closing the CrownRock deal, because a part of cash flow will be used to help pay down both the term loan and our debt maturities that are coming. So cash flow would not be used for share repurchases until we get to the point where we’ve achieved those goals.
I think, there is -- the projects there were pushed out a bit just like many other things because of supply chain issues and also dealing a little bit with inflation. But those projects, we started those and those are in progress and going well at this point.
So I’d like to say that, though, the importance of when those cash flows come on from the plant enhancement projects, we’re already starting to see cash flow from those projects. The actual cash flow that we’ll see from the Battleground expansion won’t be until the second half of 2026.
But the exciting thing about all of this is that, when you add the OxyChem projects, which will deliver the $300 billion to $400 billion, the full uplift by the second half of 2026, that’s both the plant enhancement projects and the expansion. So we’ve got that and you combine that with what Sunil had talked about earlier where we have a $400 million reduction in our mid-cycle contract prices in 2025. We’ll see the full uplift of that in 2026 as well.
And so when you combine those along with the $1 point -- $1 billion that we expect, assuming a WTI price of $70, that puts us in 2026 with $1.7 billion incremental cash at least and potentially more than that. So to be able to get to a point where, in just a little over two years, where we have through these projects and cost reduction, we are $1.7 billion better in terms of cash flow, that’s pretty significant for us and something that we’re really looking forward to and excited about.
The CrownRock acquisition stood on its own in terms of quality and how it fit within our portfolio in the Midland Basin and it made that asset stronger. But the four pilots that we conducted in the Midland Basin were on the South Curtis Ranch, which is not too far from some of those assets. So we do believe that the Midland Basin is going to be one of the areas that we would target in a big way with an enhanced oil recovery development that’s using anthropogenic or atmospheric. But we’re also doing the same thing in the Delaware Basin now. We have a pilot going on there that will help us to potentially look at that as another place to develop ultimately. So we have both options.
Thank you.
I’d just like to say thank you all for participating in our call today. Have a good day.