Charlie Scharf
Charlie Scharf
Wells Fargo & Company (WFC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, Scott, it really is going to depend. I will highlight one thing though. In the slide that we have there, we – I noted that part of what’s driving the investment spend this year is the tech and equipment line moving up. And so that won’t continue to move up at that pace forever. And so that does start to moderate as you go out into the future. But as you look at the other investments we’re making, we’re going to try to be very thoughtful about looking at the opportunities that we have across each of the businesses, thinking about short, medium, long-term results and making sure that we’re sort of calibrating all that, right? But I would expect us to continue to make investments in each of the businesses. And I think that ultimately that’s what’s going to drive great returns and better performance over time.
Yes. Look, as we look at the reserve, and then I’ll come back to the broader point there, at some point we’ll start using the reserve more fully and then that allowance coverage ratio will come down. No doubt. I mean, that’s the way it should work when you think about CECL and the way the accounting should work. I think, in terms of your broader point, it’s a long movie. We’re still – we’re not – we’re past the opening credits, but we’re still in the beginning of the movie. And so it’s going to take some time for this to play out. And as I noted, it’ll be somewhat of an uneven and episodic sort of nature to the charge offs and as you work through this, because every property has a different timeline in terms of events that it needs to sort of work through. So I do think that we’ve got a while for this to play out through the system.
And I’ll just add a little bit to it and to be a little bit repetitive. When you look at that slide, again, those are reported numbers. And so, the way we think about it is the earnings power of the company today on an ROTCE basis, you got to make your own assumptions for what’s in and out and what normalized net interest income is because we’ve been clear that we’ve been over earning. But when you look at, when you add back these expenses like FDIC, which relate to the past and this quarter and aren’t going to go forward. Our ROTCE is up 50% from where it was. So that is significant change.
On top of that, when we look at the actions, as Mike said, that we’ve taken in the home lending business, when we see the trajectory of growth that we’re seeing in the card business, just as those things mature, let alone being able to deploy the excess capital we have, those are things that are in process. We don’t have to really do anything more other than let them mature and let them play out that is continued movement towards the 15% ROTCE.
And then the last thing I’d say is just away from those things. When we got here, these businesses were not on trajectories to grow. The card business wasn’t growing, the corporate investment bank wasn’t growing. You can go through them one by one. And so, as we’ve talked about making investments, offsetting some of these efficiencies that we’ve seen and making determinations on whether or not they’re paying off. Those things that we’re seeing these increases in share, we’re pretty confident that they are going to continue to drive improved results over time. And so, as I said in my remarks, we’re clearly susceptible to market environment both for interest rates and the overall economic environment in the shorter term, but we feel both really good about the progress that we’ve made. We feel really good about what the path we see going forward is recognizing that there’s still a lot more that we have to do.
And the only thing I would add is that that’s something that has always existed pre-COVID. Right. There were always people that were doing better and there were people that were doing worse. And I think what’s important, I speak for ourselves, when we look at our card losses, what we actually are looking at is, how they’re performing on a vintage basis versus pre-COVID levels. And the curves are right on top of what that is. And so it’s when we talk about getting back to normal in terms of what we’re seeing, that’s what we’re actually seeing in card losses. We’re not seeing at this point anything that goes beyond that.
Yes, as you would guess, when you lose non-interest bearing deposits or they shift into higher yielding products, that’s going to have a pretty substantial impact. And so, that is a big driver of what the decline is for the rest of the year. We haven’t really talked about exactly where it bottoms, but it should stabilize at some point.
We’ll see, but I think, I won’t try to give you a buyback number. Lots of things go into figuring that out throughout the year. But as we said, we expect buybacks to be bigger than last year and, the level assuming that nothing significant happens in the macro environment, the level that we’re at is higher than we need to be.
Yes, what we said is, we expect stable deposits on the wealth and the commercial side. We do expect some declines on the consumer side, and an end to QT would be a positive.
Well, QT at drains, will at some point more meaningfully drain liquidity out of the banking system. Right. So once you get the RRP facility down to a smaller number, which is likely to happen, then any further QT starts to really remove liquidity more directly out of the banking system and so that stops. That’s a positive for deposits.
Hasn’t changed that meaningful yet. Really. We’re dealing with what is a structural change in sort of demand for real estate in some parts of the country. And so you got to work through that. And then I think on the margin, lower rates are helpful, but the bigger issue needs to get worked through first.
Okay, thanks, everyone, for the questions – next time.