Jim Vena
Jim Vena
Union Pacific Corporation (UNP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Margins?
Chris, let me just maybe just try to put this all into a box of the way we're thinking. It's very difficult for us to look forward and say this is exactly the way the year is going to go. More important to me and the team is, what have we done operationally? And what are we doing to provide Kenny and the entire team, the capability to go out there and maximize what's available for us and what we can bring on to this railroad. And for me, that's the single most important thing.
I think what we've shown is the capability to flex up. We have the assets to be able to flex up. We have the capacity to be able to flex up. And if we continue to drive the efficiency of the railroad, which I expect we will, then what we do is we win in the marketplace. And whatever is out there, we're going to compete against everybody else, trucks and other railroads, and we think we have a winning model, so that's the challenge we have. And it would be truly there would be a mistake for us to come out and say, because I can't tell what's going to happen, like Jennifer pointed out with the inputs and the effects from interest rates and everything else that's happening in the economy. But I'm very comfortable that we are going to maximize what's available for Union Pacific and win.
That' true, Kenny as we think about that because to your point, you can't predict the future with entire clarity. It's another reminder, Walter of the fact that when we talk about having a buffer and you look at what we did in the fourth quarter, we generated the ability to make sure we have that buffer. That buffer in locomotives, that buffer in railcars positioned in LA. So in the event the volume is there, we've supported Kenny's team to be able to actually capture it.
Well, I hate to always recap these, and I won't. But let me recap this, Scott for you. So inflation, when I was - the first call that I had in October, I was pretty clear that we are going to deal with the inflationary pressure that is presented for us that we have to tackle, and we're doing it two ways. We are dealing with it on a price - from the price side, and we're also dealing with it on the efficiency side.
And I think we have a clear view. This is not a short-term 3 months you can fix it on the price side and even on the efficiency side, we've seen improvements in efficiency, and you can see that from the number. And I think there's more available for us on the efficiency side from how we operate our trains, the fluidity and the terminals, how we use our people, and we did a really good job. The team did a fantastic job in the fourth quarter, and I expect it to get better as we go through the year.
So those two things we're tackling head on. We're not being shy about it. We're being straight. I've met with a lot of customers in groups and in small and I've been clear about what the pressures are and what we're going to do about it moving forward. But at the end, we want our customers to win in the marketplace. We want them to win. So we're being smart about how we price and what level and it's different for different marketplaces, and that's how we're handling it. But I'm excited. I think we overcome this year, by the end of the year, we'll see ourselves in a different position.
Well, listen, thanks for the question. So the way I see it is this. I think there's more on the railroad to become more efficient. And the concentration is a little different than the last time I was here and a little different than what we just were able to do in the fourth quarter. I think there's opportunity in speed and car velocity that will help us be able to move the railcars faster, use a few less locomotives and be able to keep the network more fluid.
But the real big piece for us and what we're going to concentrate on, and we think there's a capability to be much better is how fast we operate our terminals and the fluidity through the terminals to be able to have the products.
Now it's just not in the transportation piece. We are looking at ways on the engineering side, how we do maintenance, how we do capital work on the mechanical side, how we - what it costs us to perform overhauls, every piece of the network is still there. So I think there's still more left on that piece to be able to do.
Well, the challenge we have with headcount is we signed some collective agreements and you live with what was given to you. And some of those collective agreements put pressure on headcount. They put pressure on - from both the time off, the sick benefit time off that we provided. We had some weekends when the football game were on that we have like an extra 15%, 20% people all got sick at the same time. So we need to be able to figure out how to deal with that, and we'll do that as we move ahead. It must have been a real bad weekend, right? At the same time as one of their playoff games was on.
But at the end of the day, those are stumbling - those are blocks that we have to get over this year. And what we showed in the fourth quarter is with all that, all the pluses and all the headwinds we had on headcount, we were able to keep the headcount and reduce it overall in the company. And there is no reason for us not to continue to do that. We will look for every opportunity.
And sorry, I can't give you a specific number because this is a moving target. As we move ahead, we're implementing new agreements through this year. So it will be noisy. It won't be a straight tangent down. The scope won't be perfect. It will be a little up and down, but I'm very comfortable that we have the programs, the processes in place to be able to correct that and have the way which is less people handling the same amount of business.
Thank you.
Yes. In the - in 2024, we have dates of implementation for the agreements that we have not implemented completely. And those are pressures on the number of people that we would need to operate. So that will be through 2024, and that's why I've always talked about this is a - I see this as a 2-year adjustment to the railroad to be able to get there. But we do have programs in place as we implement, we run into things if we operate as efficiently as I think we can, we'll mitigate that. You mitigate it by running less trains, having more cars on the same trains. We grow. We put more cars on the same trains instead of starting more. We use the people and the facilities that we have more efficiently. So - but it's a 2024 headwind for us that we are going to overcome just like we did in the fourth quarter.
You're welcome.
Good morning.
Good question. Nice try. Thank you.
Allison, let me start and then Kenny, please jump in. So if we look at this railroad that we are blessed with that we operate, and I think you've seen some of the steps we've taken is you have to provide a level of service that we sold to our customers, and that's our goal, and we work real hard every day to do that.
We operate the railroad very efficiently. Where's the opportunity? We have a mix of traffic that's available to us that originates on our railroad, so when I go around the entire railroad, I'm very comfortable that we offset and we have the capability to offset and we are tackling, whether it's that industrial complex all the way from New Orleans to Brownsville, Texas, whether it's the grain, whether it's the soda ash, whether it's the intermodal at the West Coast and our speed. We are able to provide speed for customers that require speed and not all of them do.
We can go from LA to Texas, a close to 2,000 mile journey and we do that in 48 hours. So that's truck like. So - and our service that we put on from Mexico going into Eastern Canada, partnering with CN and ourselves into the East plus into Chicago is unparalleled. We can do it as fast as anybody. So there's lots of opportunity out there for us. And what we have to do is with good service, the customers will see what's possible, and they will want to partner with Union Pacific and grow their business with us versus anybody else. Kenny?
Bascome, I think it's a great question. If you looked at the bottom line, we have enough locomotives that we would not have to look in the planning period of 3 years out that we would have to purchase any locomotives. But we always look at the greenhouse gas emissions of our locomotives, what we need to do to be able to invest to make them more efficient, both on a fuel spend and greenhouse gas emissions.
So I think we will target certain capital expenditures. It's not in the plan this year, and we'll look at it again to see where we are. We're testing new innovative ways to have propulsion. So we'll continue to do that and invest in locomotives that can be hybrid that are able to work out there for us. So and in certain situations, we can implement it.
But I don't see the requirement is that we do not have to spend money. But bottom line is we know that we will invest in our fleet. And we don't want to have the oldest fleet in the network. So we'll continue to invest in renewing the fleet as we move ahead, but it will not happen in 2024.
You're welcome, Bascome,
Okay. So three questions, Ken. That was very good. I like - so why don't we start...
Why don't we start with the contract is real simple. The contract was lost early in 2023, and the business has actually lost starting January 1 correct, Ken?
So that's the challenge. It's a 2024 issue. And it was early in 2023 that we lost that business.
Listen, I think it was a well-framed question. I like it because it gets to the crux of who we are at Union Pacific and what the vision is and what our goals and objectives are. I'm very clear on it. I think we are going to have quarters just like the first quarter, but maybe we don't see as much of a sequential improvement as we would like because of the pressures of what we had in January so far with weather, and I'm not sure what's going to happen.
I've been around for way too long to forecast what's going to happen when winter is on and when we come through spring and everything that can happen then. But fundamentally, I see us as having a best operating ratio in the industry. And that's what we're driving towards, and we'll get there. And I see it in the future, and the future is not so far that it's cloudy. I see it clearly in what we have to do.
So for me, that's really important. And I don't care whether we - whether the business and the business in the marketplace gives us business or not. But I'll tell you, I'm pretty clear, okay? We have a great railroad. We operate very efficiently. We should win with the customers, and I expect Kenny and his team to deliver. This is not - people want to talk about we lost the business. We need to go replace that and we need to bring it on and we need to do that in the short term, not the long term, without going after making an adjustment on price to go get the business.
We have that capability, and we can deliver value to the customer. That's how I think. and I did not come back here. I could have sat at home in Scottsdale or being somewhere doing some exciting hiking or mountaineering, but I decided to come back because I think we could win, and we have the railroad and the network to do that.
So the pressure is on this team. The pressure is on Eric to make sure and his entire team to deliver, recover fast like we did with this last winter impact that we had. I expect Kenny to deliver. And I expect Jennifer and the entire team to look for every opportunity, how we monetize what we have as a railroad and win. So I love the question. Perfect. So hopefully, I answered it for you.
You're welcome.
So Kenny talk about the business and how we see it? And then if you don't mind, I'm going to answer the piece on the border, okay?
You bet. And on the border, I'm disappointed that the border was shut down, and I do not think that's the way to move forward. I think there is a problem. There's a humanitarian issue. I personally went down with some members of the team to go visit. And it's very difficult when you see people crossing the river and the mother with a child coming and then falling into some razor wire. That is not something that anybody should see.
But at the end of the day, for us, I think it's more important that the border crossings are fluid, and we are doing everything, investing in systems to make sure we protect the railway crossings that we do not have people crossing on the trains. And we've done a really good job of that. People are not crossing coming across from Mexico into the U.S. or vice versa on the trains, and that's what we will continue to do. And we will work close with customs and we have.
Customs understand they have a problem, and we've worked very closely with them, and we will continue to have meetings and discussions so that we will do everything we can to make sure that the rail operation is not impacted as we move forward.
Yes. Thank you for that question. So core to your question is how do we think about train length and how do we execute that? So let's put volume to the side just for a second. Do our trains have capacity for more train length? Absolutely, yes, 100%. The work that we have in front of us that we've been executing now for years and will continue to is to make sure that all of our systems behind the scenes continue to first identify those opportunities. And as we've always been to be exceptionally prudent about actually working through our physics engines and to understand exactly how to build our trains.
That's science. And like all science, it evolves. And every quarter, every year, we see new opportunities to be able to keep capitalize on this. So I'm not going to guide you to a specific number, but I'm going to tell you, we see some opportunity there. You'll see us capitalize it in '24, and I'm excited and appreciate what the team is doing to make that happen. Thank you, Ravi.
Morning, Brian.
Jennifer, why don't you handle the...
Thanks for the question, Brian.
So when you do the math, you know that math, right?
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The only thing I would add is with the ownership position we have in the FXC, I think that ties us even to be able to optimize what's available to us as near shoring happens and as we work collaboratively and make it the view as one railroad operationally, it will help us on the efficiency of being able to move the traffic. And I think we're able to offer the customers the best product, and we think it gives us a chance to win a bigger majority of any business that's added to those lanes.
Thank you.
Yes, they have the same capability. They do a real good job. I'm on the Board and so is Jennifer, and they have a great plan for 2024 and they invest in their railroad, the same as we do, bottom up, build the plan up to see what you need. So I'm very comfortable that they will invest and have the capability to invest what they need to move forward.
Thank you.
I said they put you last David?
You and I were always called last, I hear you.
So Kenny, let me ask the question. Would we plan our capital, do we ever limit the capital. So you have a problem for growth?
Perfect. That's the way we look at it. It's that simple, never. So let me clear up this whole, David, because it's a great question. And you know the answer. So you're asking me, and you've heard it before, and I'm very clear on this. We build our capital plan from the bottom up to look at what we need to reinvest in the railroad and every year is a little bit different. Ties, rail equipment. We look at growth and what we've identified of where we need to invest.
We're opening February 1, a new intermodal terminal in Phoenix. So we've invested in that. We're a quick turnaround. We don't fool around anymore. That would have been like a 6-month, 1-year discussion. We turned around and in November, said there's a market there. And February 1, we're opening up a place. So we're able to invest quick, and that's the way I look at it.
When we built it up, we came up with $3.4 billion. That is not a hard number. If there's an opportunity for us to invest to grow this company or invest that we need to on the replacement and the - what we do every day to operate the railroad, we'll invest. And we never ever skimp on safety, maintenance of the railroad, the capital cost we need and the growth. So we are there. I have no issue.
And on the passenger service, listen, I give both the FXE and CPKC. They're saying the right things, and I agree with them. We - there's an interaction when you have passenger service that affects you, but there's nothing that you - that I'm worried about because they can't figure out how to mitigate that and still operate a freight and passenger railroad efficiently. So I'm very comfortable that, that will not have a significant effect or really any effect as they move ahead. I'm sure that they will just move ahead and they'll be operating some passenger service on the railroad. So hopefully, we answered your question, David.
So bottom line is, this is - we have a great railroad. We have a franchise that allows us with the business mix to go up and down with - because not one area ever. And you wish 1 year that every segment that we had industrial premium, okay, and the bulk would all grow at one time, that's not the way the world is. I've never seen it in my career. We need to be able to have the resiliency and the capability to react on what's happening.
We don't know what's going to happen this year, but I'm telling you, fundamentally, we are on the right track to deliver. The team is engaged. We're excited and we're looking forward to winning this year.
We have goals to grow revenue with our service, and we also have goals to be the most efficient operationally railroad in the industry. So I'm looking forward to 2024. I'm excited. The team is excited, and I'm looking forward to talking to all of you in 3 months and see how the first quarter went and to see how we're growing and what we've done at this point. So thank you very much.