Glenn Fogel
Glenn Fogel
Booking Holdings Inc. (BKNG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks Dave for that. And Justin, AI, obviously incredibly important subject for everybody in any business right now. And I think I talked about it at the last call and have been talking about it a lot whenever I speak about how important this is for anybody who is looking to the future to create something that could be transformational. We are very early, as I have said in the past. I like pointing out the things that we have done so far and some of the early signs we see that this is going to be just fantastic for us. Nobody knows how long it will take. One of the things I love is us being in a position because of our financial position, because of the number of people we have who have capabilities to look into this. Because of the data we have, as you pointed out, that people can then be able to use it to create models and use it in ways that are complementary to other people, are doing in terms of creating large language models and so on. I do believe we have an advantage because of our size and scale and the capabilities of our people to create something in all parts of the business, whether it would be, as I discussed, things that help the traveler, which are the sort of products there or helping us in the back part of our business, the back office and make these more efficient, going throughout. I think we do have an advantage, of course, we will see over time how well and how quickly we can actually translate that into better numbers in terms of margins, in terms of more people coming to us, people increasing loyalty, etcetera. But I am very encouraged with what I am seeing so far. And I certainly believe that we do have the full position here in the travel industry.
And Kevin, just a reference back to Justin’s question about AI and data and merchandising, how we do it, etcetera. One of the great things I really see about our position is that using data, using all things you know to merchandise smartly. Do it where we think it’s going to give us an advantage and not do it where we are just giving away money. And I really see as all as AI technology develops further, as we begin to optimize over time, with all the different parts of the connected trip, we are going to be able to provide value to both the travelers and be able to get our suppliers to help provide merchandising opportunities and us doing an intelligent way. So, it’s win for the traveler, win for the partner and us as the people are doing all this, we will also win.
Yes. And regarding – the question regarding how we are going to do even better in the U.S., we have talked about the numbers that we have shown so far. I am very pleased you look back to 2019, see what our steer was, that what numbers we then look at them now, it goes really fantastic growth and great work by the team. I think last quarter, I had out to the team then and I will do it again because they are doing fantastic work. One of the things is because the under-indexed, because we are smaller in terms of not clear [ph] of the U.S. versus other parts, this is a great opportunity for us. And I have talked about we have to continue to improve our product particularly in the alternative accommodation on account of that, and we have been doing that. And that’s why we have this large growth rate in the U.S. alternative accommodations. Very pleased to see that happening. They continue to provide to our hotel partners what they need and what they want is incremental demand. They don’t want us to be a provider to manage they think they can always get. And one of the great things about our team is working closely with our hotel partners. As you know, a lot of the U.S. is large chains, and we have developed, I think a very good relation with them to work together to help them, do what they need to do to achieve their results and us being a provider of those services and getting what we need, which is more bookings. I am pleased with the results we have done so far. And I think we have got a great opportunity to continue to do so for a long time.
Thanks James. And I didn’t quite get the second one. Let’s start with the first one, maybe in front of the second one. So, it’s interesting because in our last call, I went into a little bit about what do we need to do to increase that supply of alternative combinations. And I talked a little bit – and this is that high, it wasn’t the first time I talked about this. Where we have – while we are even into urban and rural and such, I have talked in the past, though, how we don’t have as many of the single properties that perhaps some of our competitors have less area down the road. But the whole idea is we want to do things efficiently and want do things effectively, which means it goes through the things where you can get larger groups of properties listing quicker by going to the big property managers who have a lot of them. That may be that you are going to end up with more things that are not with single home properties. But then after we have that enough, and that’s the low-hanging fruit after we got that comes, then we got to go on and start getting more of the single homes, etcetera. And I have expressed my own disappointment that when I look for a single property sometimes I have mentioned, at one point on the call about wanting to get something out in the Hampton and New York for the summer and not seeing enough properties for us. There is lots of opportunity. But I look at this as an opportunity, not as a negative, but then you look how well we are doing, even though there is all the other stuff to go out and get. That’s the way I feel about it, and I am pleased the way the team is going out. Look, 12% increase in our listings or $6.6 million, now over $7.4 million, I like the fact that we are increasing those numbers, doing it in a nice size and also particularly really like the fact that our growth rate of return on the combination was significantly higher than some other people in our space. So, I was very happy to see that. I didn’t catch the second part of James’ question.
Sure. Okay. So, what I would said is we are going to experiment. And we really see, we always want to experiment, where do things work, where do we see return for it, where do we see how this is working so well. So, we are going to continue to experiment and we do have, for example, rental cars well established into our Genius program. Obviously, our combination as well and we are going to experiment with all the different verticals. And the thing, is there a way to do in flights, is there a way to do it in track and how do we do it in terms of potentially even insurance, in all sorts of ways, our ride business when people need a ride from the airport to the hotel or hotel to the airport or from their home to the airport. Again, and this goes back to the first question, I think it was Justin asked about AI and about how you use data. And that’s kind of one of the key things is when you have these models, and you can figure out what the best way to provide a benefit, and that’s through our loyalty Genius program, that’s doing that in a way that it provides value to the traveler, that’s where they use us, that’s why they come back to us. That’s why they come to us direct. Maybe they will use the app because it’s so simple to do it. At the same time, Genus is primarily almost right now, primarily being funded by our partners because they see value in that. They see value in providing a discount or some other type of benefit that we put into the offering, so that the travelers will book, that supplier what they want to sell. And doing to get it in a scientific way in doing it in a way that is going to make sure that we are not leaving value out of the cycle in a way that’s not going to be beneficial to our supplier partners, doing it smartly, that’s the thing that I love. And that’s why we are going to continue to experiment on that. And I think it’s worked so well in hotels and I think it’s in a combination, alternative accommodations, I think this is going to work great in all of it. But we will see after we expand it.
So, if the question was really how do we get from here early stage showing good signs, but it’s still small to scale and really showing the bottom line and top line and a loyalty and all those things, I think that – is that the question really?
Yes. So, look, one of the things that we have to – and I have said this is a long-term path. And the first thing was we had to build the verticals to begin with. One of the fun things was to mention that we started Booking.com we got off the ground in 2019 and now put all our flight numbers together, you see 400% increase there that’s included, of course, Priceline had placed before that, where you just see the growth rate of flights right now, great. So, we got that vertical up and we got excellences up and attract is still early, but up. But these things – all of these things are the car rental was up, but we still do on that and of course the rides business and others. All of these things are at different levels of development, but still relatively new. And one of that, then we have to build all the modeling, all the ways to figure out what’s the best way to offer one versus the other, and make sure that we are doing it the right way. And then it’s working with our partner suppliers to provide us and prove out to them that this is worthwhile to them. All of these things take time. But I do like to say, we are seeing those signals. We are seeing the numbers. It is early and I am not going to do – I am sure you would like me to give you some numbers, say, here is what it’s going to be tomorrow. Here is what the next milestone. I am going to do that. And I can’t say I see we are on the right path.
Thank you. So, I want to thank our partners, our customers, our dedicated employees, our shareholders. And as mentioned by a couple of people on the call, I have to give out a very special thank you to my very good friend and colleague, David Goulden. As you know, after 24 earnings calls as Booking Holdings CFO, he is retiring from this role and will be working on other areas of the business going forward. We greatly appreciate everything that David has done for this company, and we greatly appreciate everyone else’s support as well as we continue to build on the long-term vision of our company. Thank you very much and good night.