John Roberts
John Roberts
J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. (JBHT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Okay. Well, thanks for the two questions, Scott. So, when it comes to volume and looking to regain share from the highway, certainly that feels like some of the lowest fruit for us given the loss of share over, I'm going to call it, several years back into PSR time window, even through certainly the pandemic, I think Intermodal lost some share due to weakness in velocity. And as we gain velocity in 2023, we feel like we can better compete for our customers on consistency in the transit model that the customers need. So that's why we largely highlight highway conversions.
Certainly, growth of import traffics through the West Coast ports is an absolute benefit to J.B. Hunt. Certainly, I think we highlighted in the earnings release that we grew Transcon 13% in the fourth-quarter. So that I would think highlights at least some advantage of that effort from growth of imports.
As it relates to decoupling highway pricing to Intermodal pricing, I think that between our Transcon networks and our Eastern networks, there is already some decoupling, not 100%. Certainly the influence of the Intermodal market out West is a bigger factor in pricing there than highway rates. But in the eastern network, I can't imagine a world where Intermodal pricing would ever decouple from highway pricing in the eastern network. They really will be tied together.
Well, certainly -- I mean, the pricing environment just has too many unknowns today really to highlight anything there, Jason. What I would say is, it's certainly the longer length of haul loads that the West Coast represents can represent higher revenue per load. But that doesn't necessarily mean that there is pricing increases there. And so I'm not going to be able to fill out sort of the mix for you. I mean, we don't even know what that mix will be just yet. Certainly, there is an opportunity for growth on the West Coast that we're hearing about as more and more customers are talking about a shift of their imports to the West Coast.
Well, I think that certainly the fixed costs that we're carrying is material. And we highlighted that at least for the fourth-quarter, the coiled spring unlocked a little bit and we were able to spread growth volume over more loads and that's certainly was a contributing factor behind that. No, there certainly was not a price improvement during the quarter. Pricing will continue to be and forever will be the fastest way to repair margin. But certainly volume in our current state is worth more to us than it ever has been in our past given the asset count that we currently own. And so volume is worth more than it used to be and certainly in the fourth quarter was able to show that.
Great. Thank you and I appreciate the interest in the call today. I would reiterate goodbye and good riddance to 2023, with a couple of exceptions. We think about the performance in our Dedicated and Final Mile business, again, revealing what we believe is a very complementary portfolio of services built in very intentionally. I'd look at our performance and safety. We feel like there is a disconnect between our actual work in performance and investment and the results we're getting in the claims markets and the insurance markets.
I think, I look at like JBI, Intermodal has kind of been in the gym all year and we're carrying some extra positioning, but we got a glimpse of that, even in the fourth quarter of what that can lead us to. And I don't remember who said it, but I'm a '80s rock fan and I heard Back In Black, and I really like that, because that'll be something I can use around here through the rest of our work.
I wouldn't say that, while 2023 was a tough year, and in fact, we talk about our tenure a lot, but we've discussed here, none of us have really seen much in the lag over 2023 in many years. We're looking at decades of leadership here and so I think, while it was one of the toughest, I see it as also a very strengthening year. We had to lean-in harder to get ready for 2024. We had to ask ourselves a different type of question than we normally do and through that work in prepping for 2024 and dealing with 2023, I do believe we're better prepared as we come out of -- and I guess I'll say when not if, but when we come out of this freight recession, I totally and completely believe we are ready to respond to the needs of our customers.
We are -- have extraordinarily strong alignment and commitment to our top priorities, our people, our technology, and our capacity and I would just say let's watch for improvements while we continue to take care of our people who take care of our customers. And when that presents, I think we'll be very ready to serve and take advantage of that change in climate, so good riddance. Thanks for the memories and I'll turn it over to Shelley, to wrap us up.