Mike Salvino
Mike Salvino
DXC Technology Company (DXC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Bryan, thanks for that. And one of the things I said in my prepared remarks was we pushed on this hard. Obviously, we're seeing what our competitors are doing. We see some of the uncertainty. And that's why we went out and did that survey. And what that survey gave us back is that, look, the business that we have is incredibly stable. Our customers see us as essential, which basically means they can't run their business without us.
And then, the other key thing to that survey and those results were once we're in that position, then they want us to evolve to their technology solution. What's in the market right now is customers want cost savings, first and foremost. Second is they want projects that will give them quick value. So, gone are the projects on innovation, gone are a lot of the experiments.
So, we're in a unique position because ever since I've been here, our strategy has been to deliver on that GIS business so that we could sell the GBS business. And what essential means to us is that speaks to our GIS business, and they've got to spend money on that, all right? Now what we are seeing is some softness, which Ken and I both talked about in hardware sales, which in all honesty, we've been very focused on with our new sales approach to be sticklers about resale revenue. So, the resale revenue will come down -- came down in Q4. It will come down a bit in FY24, which in all honesty, will help our margin over the long term.
But three things I would say. First of all, yes, we see the uncertainty. The uncertainty we see is mostly in hardware sales and also some project stuff but mostly innovative projects. The positioning that we have is because we've got that ITO work and we're delivering, we're seen as essential. They're spending money on us. You can see that in, quite frankly, all three book-to-bills, overall book-to-bill, GBS book-to-bill and then GIS book-to-bill. And the final point I'll make is because of that grounding in the clients, they want us to evolve, so that's where we see the project work in GBS.
So hopefully, that, Bryan, gives you a flavor of what we're seeing in the market. Do you have a second question, Bryan?
Do you want me to take it first?
Okay. So Bryan, the bridge is take $737 million and then last quarter, remember, we took out Fondsdepot, that's $70 million, right? So $737 million plus $70 million gets you to $800 million. Where we see the other $100 million coming from is us managing CapEx better, all right, us also driving our margin. So, we feel pretty confident in that number.
Now, the other key thing that you should have taken from Ken's prepared remarks is there's a pattern. What I call is there's a rhythm. There's a rhythm of DXC now in our margin and also within our free cash flow, where we make investments in Q1, and we pay, quite frankly, a lot of our software vendors. We pay our bonuses in Q1 and then we generate increased margin and also increased cash flow throughout the year. And now, we've done that for two years. We've done that with the same team. And that's why we feel confident in the $900 million. Did I miss something?
So Keith, the first one on ChatGPT, first of all, that’s an awesome piece of technology because it's finally bringing AI to the mainstream. And if you've looked back on my background, that's one of the things I brought to DXC roughly almost four years ago. So, we're on the forefront of using AI with our ITO business and the product that we've built is called Platform X.
And when you think rate times hours, what Platform X does to us, I'll give you two use cases. Platform X monitors the IT estate. And the first use case is we use AI to predict when hardware is going to fail. A lot of our hardware providers will tell us that the hardware should be up and running for three years, four years, sometimes seven years. And what we have is predictive analytics. And we have built those algorithms to accurately predict when something is going to tip over so we can get in front of the client, all right, and make sure that that doesn't happen.
So, when you think rate times hours, we are doing project work, proactive new project work because of AI. Now, let me give you the cost savings example. The cost savings example is we don't need as many people now because the other AI algorithm that we've written in Platform X literally takes a failure point, and we basically map that to the bots that we have. We have a library of bots that we can deploy when something goes wrong.
So, when something goes wrong, AI looks at it, understands the issue. It predicts and takes the right bot. We implement the right bot and the thing gets fixed with no human intervention, which again, that's the piece where we're driving our cost down because of it.
So, I would tell you three things on AI. The first one is we're going to continue to evolve. I love the fact that it's mainstream because a lot more people understand the fact that you have to build the algorithms first. The second thing is we got 20,000 people that do Analytics and Engineering. And part of that analytics is data. And with that number of people, we have been able to create data sets that will train these algorithms. And then the final thing is, look, not only are we doing it for ourselves, we're doing it for our clients. So, love AI. I think it will be something that we can use to our advantage to both drive revenue and also reduce costs.
Now, in terms of the revenue, I think that's your second question, right, Keith, how do we stabilize the revenue, what the book-to-bill got to be?
Okay. So look, I mean, we always shoot every quarter to have a book-to-bill over 1. What you saw last year, which is why the slides in our deck on revenue are so important, particularly slide 15, is that you remember our book-to-bill last year was 0.87, 0.83, then I believe was 1.36 last quarter and then 1.04. And what you're able to see by us is that we can keep that revenue very stable, all right? So, what I would tell you is our goal absolutely is to get over 1.0. You've seen that the bookings can be lumpy. So, as long as we're in and around 1.0 for the entire year, our revenue should be in good shape. Hopefully, that gives you a good flavor about that question.
Look, what I'll tell you about the organic trajectory of the business is when you look at our flat revenues, we basically, let's call it over the last -- let's just call it over the last two quarters. So, we delivered minus 3.8%, last quarter we delivered minus 2.9% and this quarter we are now guiding to minus 1% to minus 2%.
There's two things that are going to go on with our revenue. The first thing is we are going to turn positive, what I would say towards the back end of this year. The second thing is you will see GBS become a larger and more dominant part of our revenue also in fiscal year 2024. And look, the key thing is that you can continue to see us driving the execution of this business into what we exactly said that we were going to do. We've always said that we've got two businesses. We said that that GIS business is incredibly important to us because if we deliver for our customers, that will change our perception in the industry, which is what we've done. And that will allow us, all right, to finally get to revenue growth throughout -- or in FY24.
So, when we think about the resale, all right, one of the things we've done with our operating committee is really hone in on resale revenue because we make very little margin on it. I understand our clients need it. I understand that our clients want a one-stop shop to implementing ITO and cloud. But look, this is part of our more disciplined approach to dealmaking.
And I just want to come back to what we said around infrastructure-light because that will be important. Because when we think about not using our balance sheet, when we think about not taking data centers, when we think about removing contractors or employees, all that stuff is goodness as it relates to our margin and then better revenue that will generate margin. So look, we tackle something pretty much each year. This will be the thing that we tackle this year. And I think it -- when we talk about having a better quality revenue for you all, that's what we're saying. Bryan, did you have another question?
Yes. What I will tell you is GBS will be -- will grow more than it did in FY23. So, that means a combination of analytics, insurance and apps. And GIS will shrink more than it did in FY23, all right? And what you've seen when you go look at Page 14 of our deck, the security is -- that's a business that is pretty stable for us. I mean, we do security based on the ITO stuff.
What you will see with our folks on ITO is we will drive that well below the FY23 totals. And then I've been saying now for probably four quarters that we're finally going to fix Modern Workplace. And you saw that turn this quarter from minus 15.3% to now minus 5.3%, and I expect that to get flat next quarter. So, more GBS, less GIS, and that basically will be our mix for FY24. So Bryan, hopefully that helps out.
Yes.
Well, look, I mean, Ashwin, the way -- I'll start with GIS, right? I mean, the first thing is you look at how stable the revenue is, and it's not like the macroeconomic stuff just started today, all right? So you look how stable that revenue has been just in the last two quarters, and we're looking at more stability as we enter FY24, all right? That, along with people are going to continue to spend money on the ITO and the cloud space mostly because they want to protect themselves from any sort of security issues that could cripple the environment.
The second thing, as you know, the other major offering we have in GIS is Modern Workplace. And as much as we would all hope that everybody might come into the office, that's still not true, all right? So being able to have a workforce that you can support virtually is key. So, we have two key offerings there that what I keep talking about is they are essential to our customers' needs and we are continuing to see demand. Now, in that demand, they want cost savings, all right? And in that demand, there are competitive deals from our competitors because they are not delivering for their customers coming to the market for us to look at.
So, we need to be very choosy because what we are not going to do is take the progress that we've made in GIS backwards. Now, on GBS, it's very simple. The Apps and the A&E business, we sell based on value. You sell based on value based on relationship sales. So part of this operating model change is taking seven of our most senior leaders and sticking them to the forefront of doing relationship selling and coaching our people and managing the details, all right? And when we do that, right, we have seen a built-in pipeline for our work in GBS, all right? And then, insurance stands on its own. I think Ray has got a great business there. It's a business where the industry needs our software. We do a good job running the software, and we definitely provide value to that industry in cost savings.
So look, that's why we're pretty bullish about calling what we've called in FY24, and we're not coming off that. And like I said, if I see anything, any shortcomings in the revenue, Ash, when it will be resale and it will be maybe the project work, okay?
Now, the last thing I will leave you on the project work is remember what we did a year ago. What we did a year ago is we took on the Russian issue straight away, okay? And we got ourselves out of Russia. So, that A&E capability is unique in the industry because we don't deliver any of that work with Russian resources. So therefore, that makes that revenue more stable, and that also gives us a unique sales position in the marketplace in terms of our delivery capability. So anyhow, that's how I would give you some more details, Ashwin, on our business.
Thanks, Rod. So first of all, the operating model goes across the entire company. And when I came in here, the business ran by region, right? So, we talk about what Ken and I have done on the financials to make it more transparent, to also get them to a better spot and so forth. But when you're running financials, all right, in the business by region, there's no differentiation. There's no good analysis on what's happening, right, with each offering. And there's really not a person that's driving that from revenue through margin through collections and basically operating these businesses like their own.
So, what the new operating model does is it's something I'm used to from my past. If you go look at the major service providers that are out there, typically, they are driven by an offering. Why? Because you can get the differentiation. What I like about it is we've literally chosen our top leaders, and we put them into the market to focus on growth differentiation. But the other thing is I keep talking about the culture. And in this business, you have to manage the details, which means you’ve got to get to the account level and you've got to drive the account.
And it starts with the relationship with the customer, then it gets into the actual value that we provide because a lot of our book-to-bill right now, Rod, is based on the value that those customers see in what we're providing. It's not just delivery anymore. But they're literally seeing the cost savings and they're seeing the new ideas brought to the table where we can help them meet their financial performance.
So, that's what the new offering model does. I'm really excited about it. I will tell you that we've been planning for this for an entire year. And Ken's done a lot of good work. Rob will definitely take it to the next step with his IBM background, all right? Because when you look at people like IBM and Accenture, they're used to running that model and driving the business, all right, for increased revenue and then margin expansion, EPS expansion and free cash flow. So that's why we're doing it. Like I said, I'm excited about it and I think everybody will see the fruits of it very shortly.
So what I would do is the first thing I would say is go back to that inflection point. So the great news is that we've got a leadership team here that can execute. We have shown everybody that we can recruit really good talent. And now this game is going to be about all about execution. And what I would tell you plain and simple is I see a company that will grow revenue and, like I said, expand margin, EPS and free cash flow. Those are our goals, all right? Those align to what we're trying to do and what we will implement in FY'24. And I think having those goals will propel us to be a company that will be a very stable company that can compete well in the IT services market for years to come. Lisa, do you have a second question?
Thanks, Lisa. Our focus right now will be on that second piece I talked about infrastructure-light, which is shedding our data centers, okay? So that's a fixed cost that when you're going through the transformation that we're going through, you got to be able to shed those. And I'm used to running what I call infrastructure-light at the old place, and basically, you don't own data centers. And what we're looking to do is that $250 million is focused on data centers and some facilities. So we plan on delivering that in FY24. And I think we've got a very good handle and beat on delivering that $250 million.
Okay. So Jason, the first thing that changed is the competitive landscape. So, when I got here, all right, we were not in the position we are today. And Jason, you cover the industry, you know what our competition is doing. You know the people that you put us up against, and I would tell you we're on the top of that heap right now, all right? So that's the first thing that's changed.
Now, based on us being in that position, that front position, we can now ask for different terms. And we can also start shaping our business because of that, all right? So, this isn't just something we've been talking to. We've been preparing for this for quite some time. Many people said that we ought to get rid of that business. And strategically, I thought that was the wrong thing to do. And now, it's proving out to being the right thing to do because we're able to shape that business and grow off the back of those customer relationships.
So, the main things I would tell you to focus on is our balance sheet is a lot cleaner than it's ever been. That's point one. So, we're implementing that appropriately. You'll see throughout the year how we implement the folks on data centers. And then, the last thing is the contractors. So, a lot of our competition, and in fact, DXC, when I got here, was very, very heavy on contractors, and flipping those contractors to employees allows us to generate more margin. Remember, each contractor, we're probably paying a 7% to 10% premium on. And having that focus will definitely clean up our margin.
So look, with that, Jason, I appreciate the question. Look, in closing, I want to thank Ken for all of his efforts. I want to welcome Rob. He will be a great addition to the team. I think we've been executing incredibly well. We've definitely got the right team, and I am definitely looking forward to delivering in FY24. Basically higher-quality revenue, margin, EPS, and the key thing will be expanding our free cash flow. And while we're doing that, we expect to maintain our investment-grade profile and deliver another $1 billion back to our shareholders.