Albert Bourla
Albert Bourla
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thank you, Dave. We have high confidence on the number that we gave.
Aamir, why don't you take the Prevnar question? And then maybe Alexandre, you can add a little bit color on the situation in the U.S. So what is the situation in Prevnar with the orders?
Thank you. Alexandre, how was the Prevnar situation in the last quarter or in the year in international markets?
And Mikael, to conclude what about the fourth-generation Prevnar?
Thank you, Mikael. So to summarize the Prevnar, which I know it is in the minds of all, let's start with the commercial front. In the U.S., clearly, the adult opportunity, we have taken the cream basically of the catch-up opportunity. This is happening once you are getting a recommendation from CDC for a catch-up. This market, the pool of patients has been largely exhausted. We have already 96% market share of that. So this is not a market, the adult now that we expect that will continuously grow in the U.S.
Pediatric, very different story because our market share is now growing, and we have indications that we'll continue growing very strongly. So we expect in the U.S., the Prevnar situation to be a strong growth story in pediatrics. International, both, we expect to see growth because the products have just been launched, and then the recommendations are following. So there is a delay in international higher than usually there is in the U.S. So we expect to see growth in adult and pediatrics.
I want to reemphasize that we have basically exclusivity of Prevnar 13 in more than 100 countries, 113 countries in of tenders. And we plan to convert that now to 20. And then on the fourth generation, we are moving full speed. We think that our expertise will allow us to build a polyvalent vaccine that will really compete very, very nicely as a fourth generation and will do that successfully and fast. So that's the story and let's move to the next question, please.
Thank you very much. Why don't you take the impairment question and then I will move to commercial?
Thank you very much. So Aamir, maybe etrasimod commercially, how the launch is doing and the Abrysvo?
What about Abrysvo?
Thank you very much. Maybe very quickly on Danuglipron, we didn't mention because we don't have anything to say more. So that's the only thing. There is a program, which is composed with a lot of experiments that we are doing now. In terms of moving it to once-a-day and we will speak only when we have data. We don't want to become now the focus again of another earnings call. But that being said, I'm moving it to Alexandre to discuss about Comirnaty in the rest of the world outside the U.S. What are the dynamics of Comirnaty?
Look, I will ask Dave to speak about it. But the fact that we are looking everything and we are engaging in everything doesn't mean that, that's our obligation. We are doing all the work. It doesn't mean that our intention is to deviate the capital allocation strategy that we have just articulated. And that is the number one priority is our dividend and the growing dividend. Then it's a year of execution. We try to delever as David said.
And then once we bring our deleverage to the levels that we are aspiring, we will start also moving into share buybacks and, of course, M&A, which means that for '24, we will see everything in existence because we never say never to business development opportunities could come. But our strategy, it is that you will not see anything major in business development in terms of dollars. David, did I say it well?
Thank you very much. You are a good teacher. Thank you. And the other question, Umer? I think that was it, right?
So Aamir, are you planning to give light to more? Give us.
Yes, it’s very difficult to comment on these things because they are ongoing. So it’s very inappropriate and absolutely could complicate things. I understand that there is a need for people to understand because that’s an important product. And we will try as soon as possible and practical to be able to provide the level of details that we are looking at everybody is looking so that we can model it appropriately.
Thank you very much, Andrew. Your assumption, I don't think it is correct, but Mikael will answer that. But let's first go to Aamir to basically give us a view how you see in '24 the priorities of the commercial execution in the U.S.
Thank you, Aamir. Andrew, let me take the liberty to ask also the other commercial leaders to comment a little bit on their priorities because that will give you better sense of the whole picture. Alexandre, in international, as you are taking over, what are your key priorities?
And then maybe, Chris, also on the commercial front? How do you think of the oncology in the U.S. evolving?
Thank you, Chris. And then let's go to Mikael Dolsten, if you can make some comments on the next generation as much as you can share about sales.
Thank you, Mikael.
Yes. Very general, then I will ask Chris to comment a little bit on the technologies that we are having here. I can't say how much oncology will contribute. But clearly, we have given expectations about Seagen, and we say that we expect it to be at $10 billion by year 2030 from $3.1 billion we gave guidance in 2024. And actually, we feel very good about the $10 billion. The more data coming, when we gave the $10 billion, we were not aware of some of the readouts that follow that projection. So we feel very, very good about that.
Now, I have to say that the Pfizer pipeline in oncology, I think was also among the strongest in our therapeutic areas. So I think the combination, in general, is giving us, let's say, a lot of strength. But Chris, why don't you comment a little bit about how you see the R&D evolution of oncology, the platforms you are going to base your strategies?
Thank you, Mohit, very much. Aamir, about Nurtec and in general, the migraine franchise.
Yes. Steve, I'm going to disappoint you because you are asking things that we have said we are not willing to disclose at this stage for multiple reasons. Clearly, on Danu, we have more information than is very normal with everything that we are doing because we're having a very complicated, as I said, multiple experiments plan right now. But because we don't have new data, we're not going to comment on that.
And on the new weight loss molecule also, we said that unfortunately, we are not going to disclose the mechanism of action. The reason is because, first of all, it's too early. We don't want to keep competition, nothing strange about that. So I'm sorry to disappoint you but there is not much to offer at this stage. Hopefully, as we said, mid-year is where we expect to have more information on that.
Thanks, Dave. Very quickly, Mikael, resolve Danu and then we'll go to Dave.
Yes. Let's go to the gross margin where we can serve a little bit more information.
And David, let me add a little bit more color here, but the Comirnaty and Paxlovid are big products, but they are manufactured in the same facilities, but they are separate facilities so they are not affecting the margins of the other products. So the margins were really absorbing in those facilities when you had such a huge volume production and value reduction, of course, the margins were seriously -- those products are seriously taking a lot of the overhead.
Now, as we are reducing our expectations for COVID into very realistic within targets, this doesn't mean that we have eliminated our capacity to produce more if the demand is there because that would be not responsible, first of all, from a public health perspective but also from our investors' money perspective. So that's why so far, we maintain all this capacity although the revenues are down. So there's a significant.
The second thing that David said, keep in mind, all basically our new acquisitions that brought so many new products, they were from smaller relative companies. They didn't really have their own manufacturing. So these were all outsourced and outsourced, of course, is way more expensive than when you are able to bring it. There are plans for everything, in-source, but in manufacturing, that takes three years, right, to be able to reduce the margin. And the last but not least, we have disproportional amount of new loans. And those new loans are coming with a very big cost when you build infrastructure or something new to be developed, but of course, you build it for your PIK revenues. But of course, you start with very low revenues and then those are going up.
So as the infrastructure is there, but then higher revenue for these new products are coming, it’s always the case with new products, but margins are expected. So it’s not something about gross margins. You can see it in months. You see it in years the improvement. But clearly, this is an area that we know why it’s happening what’s happening and how we can improve it.
David, why don't you take that?
And I would add that following the oncology, where clearly, we have right now the biggest part of our R&D expenses and we have a significant also part of our SI&A expenses. The other areas that we are putting a lot of emphasis when it comes to reserve, clearly, vaccines, it's vaccines and we plan to have significant productivity. In internal medicines, our metabolic franchise, it is an area that we are very excited. Obesity is part of that. We do believe that obesity is a big market and it's growing.
And we do believe that Pfizer has the capabilities that allows us to play and win in that area. So that's an area that we will continue investing. Immune inflammation, we have significant investments is the other area. And of course, we have -- we are among the few that they have antiviral and on the effective still investments. So those are the areas that we will put money in, oncology, number one, then vaccines, metabolic diseases, immuno-inflammation antivirals are the ones that we are continuing to invest in.
I'm not sure -- what was your question on RSV?
Yes. Yes, I got it. Thank you. Why don't you take that, Mikael, on the Abrysvo? And then, Chris.
Thank you, Mikael. And then, Chris?
Thank you very much. Aamir, why don't you take the question? By the way, let me clarify that Aamir's responsibility includes COVID revenue. So go ahead, Aamir.
Look, Aamir, why don’t you take the -- is it the Prevnar expectations? We don’t comment on what the expectations of the Street are, right? So are we -- and I think we gave a very good, let’s say, high-level trajectory how we see this market. In the U.S., the adult opportunity, it is mainly as always in with the adult, a catch-up opportunity. So where you come, you have a pool of all the people that are eligible, but some of them would choose to make the vaccine.
Usually, that happens in the first year and maybe a little bit then on the second year. We have exhausted, I think, this opportunity with a 96% market share. So right now, I don’t think that we will see in the U.S. in the adult huge opportunity. Merck competition is coming into that. So this is not a very big growth area for us because, as I said, this is not where we plan to do it. It’s huge when you launch them very quickly, goes down because then it is just the people that we are really graduate, they are going into this cohort in terms of age.
The big opportunity is pediatric because it is four doses, it's not one. And because it is a huge cohort every year, way bigger the cohort of newborns than people that are becoming 65. So that’s how we should see it. So there is nothing much to add into that.
On Seagen, maybe I can take it because that's an easy answer. From Seagen, we expect to get $10 billion by year 2030. That was a number that we put out there when we announced the acquisition. Since then, a few things that have reinforced our confidence in this number have occurred. The first one, it is that ADC became the hottest thing on the M&A activity. Everybody wants an ADC, which basically our big bet was in this technology. So it looks like there is an overall consensus among investors, companies, analysts that this is a technology that will deliver a lot. So that gives us a lot of comfort that happened after we announced.
The second thing that also happened after we announced this $10 billion was that Seagen came out with significant readouts or significant products that were beyond our expectations. But also what you don't see but we see, they are advancing a lot of stuff that some of them we will show you in the 29 of February. So also, it was a bet in the technology, a bet in the company, we feel that we did very well in both.
So the $10 billion is $10 billion of the $25 billion but we remain -- we don't change it, but we remain confident that we can make it. Then of course, in addition to that, there was an additional $10 billion for all the other things that we have done, and this $5 billion that we could execute. Now on Oxbryta, how Oxbryta is doing, Aamir?
Yes. And I would add, it is the same exactly with the GBT acquisition. When we did the acquisition, we announced our projections for year 2030. Since then, things have improved in terms of our confidence to deliver these numbers. And I'm not talking only that Oxbryta is performing exactly as we thought it would, but the most important upside is that we had data that we didn't have when we made the acquisition on the 601 but has the potential to become a transformative therapy in the sickle cell and really, really brings to the next step change if that thing -- if the Phase 3, let's say, reconfirms the Phase 2 results.
So also over there, I think what we announced, we feel now we're more confident but we should be able to achieve and hopefully exceed.
So with that, I think we start to end the call. In summary, we are optimistic about the year ahead. We have defined our five key priorities that will keep us focused. And I repeat again, this will be a year of execution. I have a sample, a team, that are handy that I believe are the absolutely right leaders to execute. And I know that the whole world was impressed with the way that we executed our COVID strategies, how we were able to execute on the R&D front, on the manufacturing front and on the commercial front with two products, the vaccine with the highest market share, and with the product in oral antiviral.
We plan to repeat the same execution excellence level as we are building oncology leadership, as we are progressing the next wave of our pipeline, as we are maximizing the performance of all these new launches that have happened, as we execute our cost realignment program starting this year with SI&A, but also which you will see the results. But of course, the program to improve the gross margin that you won't see results now because it takes long but we started now as we speak, and laser focus in maximizing value for shareholders with the way that we allocate our capital.
The team is there to make sure that this will happen, and I think we should meet again in three months, and we will see how we are progressing against those stated goals. Thank you very much, all. Bye-bye.