Samuel Hazen
Sam Hazen
HCA Healthcare, Inc. (HCA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, let's see, A.J., this is Sam, there is about four questions there. Let me see if I can sort of emphasize them. I will tell you from our judgment we had normal seasonality with respect to most categories of our business. And we had indicated last year that we thought seasonality trends have returned in the latter half of 2022 and they continued in our estimation into the latter half of 2023, with the natural seasonality that we see in our outpatient areas as well as some of our other surgical areas for the most part from the third quarter of this year to the fourth quarter.
How that was influenced by new policies and pent-up demand, we can't really determine that, and we don't believe it had a material impact. So from our standpoint, we've been optimistic that our strategy around our network development, our execution on our quality and patient safety agenda, and then our partnerships with our physicians was going to allow us to continue to grow. We mentioned that at our Investor Day. And we think that's part and parcel to what's happening with our business as we push through the latter part of the year.
I mean there is always utilization of policies and procedures coming from the payers. There is, like I said, some changes in certain policies. It's way too early judge the effect of those and we are really judging our business and thinking about 2024 optimistically around where the demand for health care is at least in our markets.
This is Sam. We have been pretty consistent with our allocation over the years between inpatient, outpatient and technology, and I think 2024 will be somewhat consistent with that. I will tell you we do have a large development pipeline of new outpatient facilities that are connected to our capital project in 2024 and 2025.
We’ll have quite a few come online, little bit more than we had in 2023 and 2022. We do have some new hospitals in a few markets that will come online, and we’re starting to invest in, in other markets. So I think when we look at the volume of beds and so forth coming on in 2024, it’s about the same as 2023, if I remember correctly. And then our ER capacity is growing consistently.
So we’re pretty consistent in our allocation of capital. It’s not disproportionately oriented to any one category of our business. And we think, again, that approach has yielded really strong returns. It’s allowed us to meet the demand expectations that exist in the market, and it’s also responded to our physicians in a way that created the capacity or allowed for the clinical technology that they need to practice their medicine.
So we’re stepping it up because we have a growing occupancy on the inpatient side, and then we have opportunities in the outpatient side to expand our networks further in these fast growing communities. That’s pretty much the snapshot of it, but it’s generally consistent from an allocation standpoint to prior years.
Well, at our Investor Day, Mike Marks presented our financial resiliency program, and it’s got different components to it. There’s more sophisticated integration of our revenue cycle that includes our case management initiative, which I will highlight here. Our case management initiative is to make sure that our patients get into the right setting in the right timeline and free up capacity where appropriate, and so forth. This past year, we had early stage success with that. Our length of stay was down and our case mix was modestly up. So when you put the two together, it's a good start for us with respect to our case management initiative. That is important on multiple fronts. It allows us to allocate our nurse staffing more effectively to more acute patients and so forth. We will continue to invest in that initiative as we bring on more technology, more structure to our teams, and better process and benchmarking.
The second thing I would highlight is with respect to what we're calling our internal benchmarking initiative, we have incredible opportunities to compare more deeply into our organization, whether it's on the variable cost side, with respect to what we allocate and distribute to our facilities or on fixed costs. And both of those categories are getting a lot more benchmarking under Mike's leadership and we're finding opportunities to rethink how we organize our cost structure, how we leverage process improvement, how we use technology and automation in those areas to improve processes and variable costs. So I'm excited about the prospects there.
As I mentioned in my commentary, we had a very successful transition from the third quarter to the fourth quarter with respect to what we call clearance, operating leverage. And our operating leverage from the third quarter to the fourth quarter was the best I'd seen in my experiences with the company. And I think part of that, not all of that, is due to some of these initiatives and the transparency we have around our efforts to improve efficiencies, improve clinical outcomes for our patients and so forth.
So those are two things I would highlight. Obviously, our technology agenda and our care transformation is a longer run effort with respect to improved outcomes across different dimensions of our business. And we've had some modest success there in the short run, but we're really banking on those programs giving us long-term value. So those are just a couple of highlights.
Whit, I will tell you, our teams, culturally, are disciplined, and as I mentioned, that discipline creates opportunities for us to find better ways to do things for all of our stakeholders. And that mindset is something that we carry forward from one year to the next, and we'll carry that on into 2024, on into 2025 and so forth. And we think it's an essential ingredient for a health system success. And I'm pretty proud of our teams and how they embrace that and how they execute on the initiatives to make that happen.
This is Sam. It's interesting. I'm just looking at a trend line here, and I don't have it beyond this time period. But in 2019, this is a composite view of Medicare. So it has both Medicare and Medicare Advantage. Our Medicare admissions grew 2.6%. You throw out 2020 and 2021 grew 2.1%, 2022 grew 3.4% and 2023 grew 4%. So is there acceleration on our trend? Yes. Obviously, there's aging baby boomers in the mix there, number one. Number two, we think we're taking out market share, so to judge overall utilization patterns around that is really difficult for us. There's population growth in our markets. When you look at adjusted admissions on the same combination payer class, again: 3.7% in 2019, 5.3% at 2021, 4.7% in 2022 and 5.7% in 2023. So a slight acceleration, but a function we believe of aging baby boomers and a number of beneficiaries moving in the program, population growth for us in market share gains. So it's hard for us to judge underneath that, whether or not there's some structural change in utilization, that's almost impossible for us to discern with the data that we have.
This is Sam again. Thank you for the question. We finished the year roughly. I don't have the exact average here at 90% acceptance rate. In other words we weren't able to take roughly 10% of the patients who were referred to us through our transfer centers and such. That improved throughout the year as we went from maybe the mid- to high- in the first part of the year, to a little better than that in the second half of the year. We're still below where we were in 2019. But what we have seen is more patients coming through our transfer centers and other patient navigation program that we did in 2019.
So we feel good about the inflow if you will. We are still at times in situations where all of our capacity is not open and available, and that's what generates these situations where we can't receive the patients that are coming through these navigation programs and transfer centers. We think that will continue to get better in 2024 as we have capital coming online, as our hiring patterns continue to improve.
Our turnover as I mentioned in my commentary has also improved. We've been very intentional in trying to create a great environment for our people with good leadership; resource capabilities and just overall trading to support the efforts so that they can be successful in what they do. And we think that will help us push through 2024 and hopefully have more capacity available and be able to receive the patients that want to get into our system.
Yes. And the only thing I would say, and Bill alluded to this, our outpatient platform tends to be short cycle returns. We get a real efficient sort of capital allocation with outpatient facilities. And then on the hospital side, we are a hospital-centric health system. And as we invest in our hospitals, those are long-lived assets and they have a longer cycle to them with respect to returns, but they're critically important to the overall value that our outpatient facilities can generate for our system in the sense that we're able to navigate the patient further into the health care system if they need more acute care offerings. So we have to look at it in both manners.
I think to Bill's point, we have had strong returns, a pattern of strong returns, we have occupancy on our inpatient hospital side in the low-70% which is a pretty high occupancy level up over where it was pre-pandemic even with the additional beds that we've added. So we think the network model that we highlighted for you all at the Investor Day is working and is complemented by the outpatient facilities integrated with the hospital system in a manner that produces really positive enterprise returns for our company.