Steven Collis
Steve Collis
Cencora, Inc. (COR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, Lisa. So of course, our relationship with Walgreens is -- and Boots in the U.K. is very significant. We also have the WBAD purchasing alliance. So it's by far the most scaled and material relationship we have. So having said that, we're very pleased that someone who we've known literally for decades like Tim has assumed the mantle. And he has a proven track record. I first met Tim when I was running the specialty business at the former Bergen Brunswig, and he was running the Accredo division at Medco. So go back a long, long time.
But our partnership is very strategic. We believe that there's always room to do more because of the scale that we have, and also the challenges that we're going to have. So in the past, we've worked together on purchasing and sourcing initiatives. I think we worked effectively very well together through this COVID season, where we both had our respective roles. There has been, of course, much more patient director in front of the patient. But we think that this relationship will continue to prosper. And we look forward to Tim being very successful in the new role. Jim, do you want to take the second part?
Yes. Just a couple of things. I just want to say, in terms of anticipated any reforms, as we know, the best of our knowledge, most of the pricing concessions would take place below the WAC line. So that's what we anticipate at the moment. Just then, Jim, on GLP-1s, I'd say they are clearly most impactful on the top line and an incredible example of the innovation in our industry and the patient impacts. We expect continued growth in this category. But again, they are a much more meaningful revenue growth driver than operating income driver, but important part of our portfolio. The last thing I'd say is that we continue to advocate and help our community pharmacies to obtain adequate reimbursement on those products. So thanks for the question.
Yes, thanks for the question. Our community pharmacies always differentiate themselves with their resilience. And broadly speaking, they hold up well. Around 20%, 21% of market share. And they've been in that place for several years now.
I think with product innovations like GLP-1s and more people doing their vaccine and COVID shots at the pharmacy, it does give an opportunity. Labor and access to pharmacists is probably easier on a more macro level on a smaller basis. And often, some of those pharmacies are in smaller communities, they're very active in those communities. And also, some play a key role in access to underserved communities as a leading health care provider in those communities. So we're proud of our partnership with them.
You mentioned growing. And I would say that we do that through our relationships with our buying groups, that we are, I believe, are leaders in the space. And it's a fascinating space for us and one that we'll continue to invest in. Thanks for the question.
No, no. Thanks, Jim. Well said, certainly, I think if you look at where manufacturers are investing their dollars, of course, there's been a very robust sector in the GLP-1 category in the diabetes and weight loss category. But oncology is one where so many manufacturers are focused. We still feel that we have significant opportunities with biosimilars with some of the other new categories of drugs in this area. Cell and gene therapy are going to be important business drivers for us. Cencora plays an important role in those products.
And then on the practice management side, the data, value-based care side, so robust, the sector, and our role in it is so integral to those practices that it's just still a very exciting place to be and one way where Cencora will continue to be the leader. And hopefully, we also look to do more oncology in Europe over time as well. Thank you.
Yes. PharmaLex is a strategic asset that's very complementary to our existing services. They, as you know, provide a platform with services in the U.S. as well as a high level of service for a differentiated level of service than we've historically been providing in Europe. We already had a commercialization service category-type businesses with companies like other well-known like Lash and Xcenda. World Courier, in a way, has many aspects of it that are more like a commercial or a commercialization services, but also strong distribution and supply chain expertise in our ultra niche market.
So these are areas that are very intriguing to us. We've always had a view that our customers are both up and down the supply chain. And we want to carry on providing those best-in-class services. We have opportunities also for geographic expansion. So where else does it make sense for us to be. And PharmaLex has been very adept at getting into new markets and is present in many, many countries. So some of these compendia works we're doing, we've been talking about them. And business reviews are really truly global in nature to the extent of very few projects that we've worked on in the past. So exciting opportunities for us, strong management team. We focus on the integration. And I think you'll see potential add-on investments and to -- and including geographic, potentially. But at the moment, we're just focused on rolling it in to the extent that we would want with key integration goals. So -- but thank you for the question.
Thank you. That concludes our questions. I'll just make a closing statement. Cencora is proud to finish our first quarter as Cencora, and we move into fiscal year '24 with strong momentum. We are executing, as we always have, to deliver results. We are investing in our business to differentiate our capabilities and deliver long-term growth. We are at the center of health care and the care of the supply chain, the core of the supply chain, including -- very closely tied to these innovative products that we're so proud to represent in the marketplace. Our fundamentals are strong, and our strategy is sound as we are well positioned to continue delivering value for our stakeholders in fiscal year '24 and beyond. Thanks for your time and attention today.