Lal Karsanbhai
Lal Karsanbhai
Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah. Hi, Jeff. Lal here. Good morning. So on the revenue, as Mike stated, $1.6 billion is the assumption. It's not in the underlying sales as we reported. Orders in the environment, as I expressed in my presentation, are still challenging in the business, exiting the quarter at down 16% NI which is very much aligned to the plan that we had in place. And we do expect much like in our core discrete markets, orders to flatten out as we get into the second half of the year. So feel very much that they're under in plan from an orders perspective, although still in a challenging environment. And then lastly on synergies. Look, we got off to a really good start, day one. The team's executing very, very well. We haven't given guidance on year one. What I did, I will say is that about half the synergies will be delivered in the first two years.
Good morning, Steve.
Yeah, I'll comment, Steve. Obviously, we exit at 5%. So we have optimism, and we have momentum out there. Obviously, we have some challenges in discrete, as we talked about in the business. I think as you think about the start of the year, my expectations are flat to low single digits. But as we get into the second half of the year, my expectation is exiting at -- in the mid-single-digit range. And for the full year, somewhere in the low single to mid-single-digit orders.
It's a good question, Julian. One that we've thought a lot about and been watching very carefully. The fact of the matter is that we have some very unusual secular trends going on in the world right now. I think a lot of our process activity is driven by two -- three critical areas. The near-shoring activity, which impacts life sciences and the metals and mining value chain. The energy affordability and security, which is impacting significant continued investment in liquefied natural gas and nuclear. And thirdly, equally important, sustainability. I think we're past the tipping point in terms of the -- our customers' commitment around sustainability, and we're seeing continued investments there. So whether we believe those will transcend certain economic cycles and that will impact how we should think about the strength of process as we go through 2024. Ram, you have something to add?
That is our expectation, yes sir.
Thanks, Julian.
Good morning, Scott. Lal, it sounds like you were just in China, if you were around the world, and it seems pretty topical to get an update from what maybe you saw there. I'll just leave it there.
Yeah, I actually, on this particular trip, did not hit China. We'll do that later in the year. I was there in May. But having said that, look, we had a very good year in China. We exited orders at 11% in China. So feel good about the momentum there again. The investments there really around energy security and nearshoring are very significant. Sales were in the mid-single-digits for the year, and -- but we continue to see robustness in our core process and hybrid spaces. And not unlike what Europe and the United States struggling on the discrete side, but certainly the process hybrid strength will continue as we expect into 2024.
Yes, it is negative in the quarter. Yes, sir.
Thanks, Scott.
No, I don't have anything else to add, Joe. I mean, obviously, there's a -- as Ram expressed, a volume expansion as we get to the second half of the year that will drive leverage and incremental profits, but that's really what the tale of the tape there is.
No. Hey, Chris, Lal here. No, look, we continue to see the funnel expand organically to begin with. So it did grow from quarter over quarter, which is why we thought it was important to show you. But what's most interesting, it's growing in the right spots for us. It's growing along the growth platforms that were -- where we have the focus of the organization. So that comprises about $6.6 billion of the funnel today, of which energy security and transition is a big part of that. Sustainability and decarbonization is a large part of it. If you look at the wins, they are very much aligned in the same way as the funnel, winning at about 60% aligned on the growth platforms-ish with energy transition a big part of what we are converting here. So feel really good about it. I -- we're watching it carefully, of course, in terms of movement through FID and other elements, but at this point in time, continue to have optimism, particularly products that are purely connected to national security, nearshoring, or energy affordability elements. So, feel pretty good about what we see in front of us.
It's possible. Yes, Andy. We've been operating in the mid-50s over the last couple of years. There's a significant amount of momentum around cost in the business. As I mentioned, we have tailwinds that will be delivered through the actions we're taking, not just within the segments, but also at corporate as we go through 2024. Now having said that, on the supply chain side, we're on the positive side of most of the measures. Obviously, logistics environment is flipped. And on material flow, generally significantly better. Of course, we fight spot shortages as you'd expect in any business. But generally, we are in a very different world on the supply chain. So that's all very positive. So it's really around execution. Look, we have a -- the gross margins of the business are 49% in 2023. They'll expand further, as Mike described, in 2024. And with that comes an expectation of a higher leverage and a higher incremental for the business. So at this point, feel very comfortable with the guide we put out there for the year in that mid to high 40s which is, I think, differentiated. And we'll really think through what we talk about and guide on a longer-term basis from a financial plan perspective as we go through the year.
Yeah, no, we certainly expect MRO in the 60% range for 2024, Andy. You're absolutely right. It's the most pricing elastic portion of our business. It's typically replaced like for like within processes. And so we feel we have a great understanding of where the $150 billion of install base is located and we have specific programs across our service organizations and selling organizations to ensure that we mine that and that we keep that product evergreen. So I feel good about that, but in that 60% range, I think would be the right expectation.
Thanks, Andy.
Hi, Tommy.
No. So a couple of things. What we're experiencing through the quarter or we have experienced through the quarter is demand-driven weakness. As Ram accurately portrayed, it's not as the stocking element. As a matter of fact, a very small percentage of our business runs through stocking distributors in the discrete side. But nevertheless, it's demand that we really focus on, and it's global weakness across the key markets. Now having said that, the comparables do get easier as we get into the second half. We're not counting on underlying demand conditions in the discrete market significantly improving in the second half. What we're benefiting from is obviously the [competitors] (ph) for us.
There's nothing extraordinary other than we've got to be cautious on the discrete cycle.
Thanks, Tommy.