Robert Bradway
Robert Bradway
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. The only thing I would add is we're starting from a basis of a monthly dosing cadence and schedule. And so the additional dosing cohorts would look at potential dosing schedule beyond monthly. And the data are pretty clear in the market right now that the GI toxicity or GI side effects are generally related to the day of dosing of the GLP-1s, which are dosed weekly. We see some of that same GI side effect profile in kind of the first dose part of the dose titration. But there's an opportunity here to potentially spread the dosing intervals out further and further improve tolerability in our program. And as Jay clearly described, we've got all of the different aspects of that being studied in the Phase II program.
Jay, could you catch all that some of what Jay asked was broken up at the beginning...
Sure, Chris. Maybe we'll take it in a couple of parts. But Vikram, share your thoughts first.
And Chris, the only thing I would add is building on what Vikram said in his prepared remarks, we're excited about the international opportunity as well, and I think he characterized that well previously. And we're also excited about what we see as ongoing opportunities to invest in innovation for the benefit of TED patients. So all in all, I feel excited about the rare disease pillar that we've established and the role that TEPEZZA will play in that.
Yes, and thanks for the question. Murdo, why don't I start and then you add on. So it's a great and timely question. The Phase II COPD study of TEZSPIRE, we expect data in the first half of this year. This was a big study, 337 patients, moderate to severe COPD. They're having exacerbations despite being on triple therapy. And so reflective of the current unmet need inadequacy of therapy for patients with COPD.
This is a slightly broader population than Dupi that we're studying here. We're totally on track for the readout. We quite like the mechanism here. You must know that TSLP [j works as a signaling factor upstream and by blocking it with our unique biotherapeutic, we block TSLP IL-25, IL-33 signaling. TSLP so many cell types modulating this airway Type 2 response. By hitting TSLP upstream, we think we can really have an impact on the disease biology.
We see TSLP-elevated in the serum patients in bronchial mucosa [PH] and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. It's released by airway epithelium. There's just a lot of signals from the basic biology of this disease pointing to a medicine of this nature. And by looking at the broader population than they did with Dupi, we have a chance to really figure out who the responder is. Murdo?
Yes. Thanks, Umer. I won't be able to provide patient level insights to the Phase I study at this time, but I do appreciate your question and your interest in the report. I'll speak to the dropouts of the Phase 1 at the 420-milligram dose, which was four out of the eight patients.
First, it's notable to say that the high-dose cohort in the multiple ascending dose receiving the three doses of 420 experienced real weight loss, real benefit of 14.5% after these three monthly doses. This was the group that proved actually quite durable out to day 150. Four subjects decline to participate in this clinical study setting largely from logistical reasons. The AEs and other characteristics were comparable to all the other patients in the study. Now the second question around the digital group, I don't have insight into that. Dave, do you...
Yes. Thanks, Colin. I appreciate the deep consideration of the molecule, especially. I'd start by saying, I don't regard these doses as high. I'm new here, but 420 milligrams for biotherapeutic that's an antibody drug conjugate with a peptide antibody ratio 2:1 seems well in scope for a modern biotherapeutic product.
I don't need to tell this community paying so close - such close attention to Amgen that this is a very sophisticated biotherapeutics organization. And on the manufacturing side, just every patient, every time. And we have all the capabilities necessary to deliver this medicine at whichever of these three or other dose and schedule we arrived at. So no concerns there for me whatsoever.
Regarding the balance of the pharmacology, you do invoke a difference between our medicine and medicines developed by pure pharmaceutical companies. Namely mechanistically the core antibody of MariTide inhibits the GIP receptor, whereas these other peptide medicines agonize it.
We feel very secure in our choice to inhibit that receptor supported by just the finest level of experimental data available experiments of nature that genome-wide association studies in very large populations have pointed to a need, an opportunity to inhibit the gift receptor to deliver lower BMI as observed with variance in that receptor and downstream signaling pathways that correlate with reduced body mass index in large populations.
As to the balance, which you asked, between inhibition of GIP receptor and agonism of GLP-1, these are very difficult measurements to make in humans, but our modeling suggests that with the therapeutic doses and exposures that we observe that we're achieving both.
First, why don't we ask Vikram, just to address the performance of the product right now in NMOSD. And then a combination of Jay and Dave can talk about the other activities or other potential applications.
Sorry, I had trouble understanding your question.
Maybe I'll jump in. Mohit, we're not commenting at this point on the provider. We just said that we're going forward with the subcu.
Yes. Thanks for the question, Geoff, really appreciate it. As you know, obesity is a major public health crisis, maybe 40% of Americans with a BMI over 30 massively costly. So a huge burden to the global third-party payers and societies. The obesity-related disease list is quite long and expanding from cardiovascular disease and heart failure, type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep apnea, NASH and AFLD kidney disease.
These are chronic conditions that really demand medicines that can deliver durable and chronic weight loss. And so we think we have a really strong offering for these obesity-related diseases rising in our Phase II program, as you know. And obesity has a strong genetic component and we locked on to gipper [ph] inhibition based on genetic insights.
So the opportunity space is quite large. You asked the question what indications and perhaps even in what sequence. And when we have all the requisite data, we'll remark in due course. But we intend all indications where this dual mechanism can improve public health. And we are actively planning and on track for an expansive Phase III program.
Yes. Thanks, David. I mean we're making all these measurements, and I'm not going to try to forecast the outcome of that pharmacology at this time. As you've seen in our Phase I program, the medicines very well tolerated, delivering durable weight loss and benefit without significant excursion of some of those measurements. I just think it's too early to try to answer your question, and we'll have all that data at the end of the first part of Phase II towards the end of this calendar year.
Yes. Thanks for this outstanding question, Michael. And Zalaritamag [ph] is a very interesting and exciting molecule for those on the call. This is a steep on CD3 bispecific. We have been studying this in advance castrate-resistant prostate cancer. We have expanded a cohort in the Phase I monotherapy. We're opening to reduce monitoring as well as - as you invoke the existing and novel androgen receptor modulators integrators, we're exploring combinations with novel agents in that domain as well.
The priorities for the program right now are to establish reduced monitoring. This will be important to reach just all the patients who can benefit. We're looking at the feasibility of reduced monitoring. We have a great experience with these T-cell engaging bispecifics as well as the plausibility of outpatient therapy.
The approach to the regulatory path will present in due course. There'll be no surprises there. The path to bring medicines to patients with castrate-resistant prostate cancer alone and ultimately, in combination is well worn, thankfully, and we know how to deliver there.
You asked about differentiation in other medicines. These are often apples to oranges comparisons. We have looked at that, of course, and we really like the offering of Zalaritamag. The patients treated on our study had quite advanced disease, even more advanced disease than the demographics of the patients as reported on other mechanism medicines such as radio ligand therapies.. And the response rates we're seeing are really clinically meaningful to patients. And that gives us great encouragement to develop the medicine more ambitiously in the next few years.
Sure. Jay and Dave?
Sure. No, thank you for your question. For the broader group, AMG 786 is an oral medicine being developed for obesity. It is not an increasing that we've not as yet disclosed this target or pathway. This study is progressing fine. The readout of the Phase I is on track for the first half of 2024. We've completed initial dose escalation cohorts, and we're just collecting and analyzing data, expecting the readout in the first half of this year.
Okay. Thank you all for joining the call. As you heard, we're excited about the opportunities that we see for growing our business across all four of our pillars, general medicine oncology, inflammation in rare disease. Last October, we shared an in-depth look at oncology in connection with the ESMO medical meeting. And we plan to do an introductory review of rare diseases and our rare disease pillar in late February to give you more information about the medicines that we already have on the market as well as some of those that are advancing through our pipeline. So we're encouraged by the questions that we heard on this call about those molecules, and we're excited about them and their prospects. So we'll host a call, which IR will share with you here over the next few days and look forward to having that opportunity. In the meantime, again, thank you for your support, and we look forward to talking to you at the Rare Disease Day at our first quarter results call. Thank you.