John Engel
John Engel
WESCO International, Inc. (WCC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hello, Deane.
Yes. Deane, at the highest level, EES had strong industrial, as Dave mentioned, construction was down a bit. OEM was down a bit. But it didn't -- it wasn't far off our expectations. Now if you look at the underlying mix of EES, stock and flow is a little weaker than we anticipated. We did have projects -- project shipments, the DS shipments kind of tick up. That wasn't the big delta versus our overall expectations. The big delta was a shift in both CSS and UBS. So let me take you through each of them. CSS saw a slowdown in their stock and flow, really to various contractors and some select project pushouts, specifically with a few customers that -- these are fairly sizable projects. We had expected CSS to really step up sequentially. So this was really versus expectations. UBS as well had two major drivers. Integrated Supply, which is part of that business, industrial-oriented integrated supply business called WIS grew very nicely, mid-single digit growth, very strong, actually, and very strong momentum. Broadband was significantly weaker than we thought. It had been down all year in the 20% range. It was down over 30% in Q4. So we had thought we kind of hit the bottom on broadband, but it kind of lagged down a little bit further. We did have a very challenging comparable in Q4'22, but nevertheless, broadband was worse than expected. And then finally, utility, Deane, I'd say, utility was a case where customers clearly did some inventory management as we move through, let's say, the latter part of November through December and they were adjusting their purchases that really impacted stock and flow. So they had kind of -- they were kind of riding the inventory levels they had and kind of just push stuff out. You call it year-end inventory management. I think I hit all your questions. Dave, do you want to add anything?
Deane, I think your question is a good one in that we've had then -- I think we'll look back to this period of time going into the pandemic, through the pandemic, coming out of the pandemic and we clearly had some dramatic effects across the entire value chain in the global supply chain as we entered, went through and came out the other side. By and large, what we're seeing now is kind of a back to more normalized level across almost all dimensions of the business. Pricing, as Dave said, lease supplier lead times continue to be -- are back at pre-COVID levels except for a few select categories like engineered products, switchgear and transformers. So most of that supply chain disruption, there is a front end, through it, on the back end has kind of worked its way through, I think, as we closed out 2023.
Nigel, thanks for the question. I started my opening comments today by saying these results are unacceptable. They're unacceptable to me and the entire management team. I think we've clearly built a new company, and we established a very strong track record of delivering exceptional results and creating value. If you think about 2023 in summary, we had a little bit of a kind of softening in EES in Q2, we took some cost actions. And then as we go through Q4, things move pretty quickly. And look, as we enter this year, we still have our sales rates not bouncing back yet. So we have declining sales, as Dave mentioned, in January. So kind of that, it extends the Q4 trend on the top line. Although backlog has ticked up sequentially. So that's an encouraging point. We've got the best team we've had, Nigel. We've got very clear initiatives that have delivered value. As we've done over the last several years since we brought Anixter and WESCO together, we've refined our margin improvement program as we've entered -- we did that -- we launched it initially several years ago, and we refine it every year. So we refine that again, adding new tools and capabilities to that program, and that's effective in January of 2024 and we continue to see tremendous cross-sell opportunities. I think we've built a very good process, a rigorous process and have a real strong recipe around delivering the cross-sell results. So highly confident that we'll get the momentum back here quickly. As we kind of look at guide for the year, I think we are very thoughtful and measured in terms of how we set up the guide. We do expect more of a normal seasonality as we walk quarter-to-quarter across this year sequentially. And if you factor that in, that takes us well above the midpoint of the guidance range that we put out there. So I look at '24 as being a year that most of the external market factors seem to normalize and now we're down execution. And again, I feel very confident in the team we have in place, the initiatives that we have in place, building off the momentum and the results we've delivered since we brought these two companies together back in middle of 2020. Dave, I don't know if you can add anything? Maybe Dave talked to cash flow because I think -- just speak to the cash flow.
Good morning.
Patrick, I'll add that the secular growth trends are still intact. And so I'll just -- I'll add to Dave's comment relative to data centers and what we call our WDCS business, our WESCO Data Center Solutions, which is the combination of Rahi plus Anixter's legacy data center business, which was exceptionally strong. So that had very strong results in the fourth quarter, and it grew double-digits. Obviously, it was up very strongly across the year. But there were some projects that did slip out that we had expected to get in December. The momentum vector is still exceptionally strong there. And we got very high good bidding -- bid activity levels and quoting levels. The AI-driven demand is expected to only further accelerate, I think, the opportunities with data centers. And we expect very strong results in 2024 because I think that was part of your question as well. Very high single digit to low double-digit growth for that portion of our CSS business.
Okay. Thank you again for joining us. I'll bring the call to a close. We've addressed all your questions. I thank you for your support. It's appreciated. We look forward to speaking with many of you. I know we have many follow-up calls planned today and tomorrow in the coming days. We also will be participating in a series of conferences over the next two months. First, the Raymond James Institutional Conference; second, the Loop Investor Conference; and third, the JPMorgan's Industrial Conference. And additionally, we expect to announce our first quarter earnings results on Thursday, May 2nd. So with that, thank you, and have a good day.