Dirk Van de Put
Dirk Van De Put
Mondelez International, Inc. (MDLZ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Okay, thank you, Andrew. Yes, I mean, we see there's a very strong full year performance. We feel that there is portfolio strength, which is broad-based across our regions, across the categories, across the brands. The volume mix growth is solid for the year. We expect that to continue into next year. Our price execution has been very good this year across the business. Share performance is good. North America, we recovered. AMEA, we've been gaining share. Europe, we had some disruption effect during the year, but we started to recuperate strongly at the end of the year.
The strength in emerging markets continues broadly and can comment a little bit on where there are some short term issues. And then we've very got -- got some very strong gross profit growth and $2.2 billion for the year, which has allowed us to reinvest quite significantly in the business.
And so the acquisitions are doing well. EPS growth adjusted 19%, real 14%, strong cash flow. So we feel good as we enter 2024. We have some more pricing coming in, but in North America, that's already agreed. In Europe, we're in line with where we were last year and the majority is already agreed. We are planning to continue with strong investments in our brands, with strong activations. The acquisitions, we expect to continue to play a big role for us.
And so overall -- and maybe another point to mention is that we have this distribution runway of adding distribution for our brands around the world. So we feel it was a very strong '23 and we feel good entering '24. Now, that doesn't mean that there are no particular issues that are on our mind. So the first one would certainly be the cocoa prices and our need to price as needed. We are well covered for the year, but we need to, mainly in Europe, get those prices agreed.
Consumer, while the consumer is feeling better and more positive short term, we see that elasticity is still at or below historical norms, but there is some uptick in consumer elasticity in some spots around the world. It is to be expected that we will have customer disruption in the beginning of the year in Europe. The annual negotiations are in progress. Like I said, we are in line where we were last year and majority is agreed, but we still have some to go.
And then maybe a few words on some of the effects on the volume in Q4, which we don't think will continue in Q1 in certain instances. So there is some tensions in the Middle East, and that has some effect on Western brands and we have some of those Western brands. We expect that to continue in Q1 and Q2, but gradually over the year, that will fade away. And that is the main reason why our AMEA is not as strong in volume mix as you would expect.
And then North America. Luca said it in the comments, in particular in the US, because of very one-off -- specific one-off reasons, stopping part of the range of Give & Go, the systems change in Clif, we expect to return to good volume mix growth in North America in the beginning of next year.
All these items that I'm talking about are included in our full year outlook. And so we believe at this stage, particularly since we have to see how the negotiations go in Europe, that we should guide towards our own algo result for '24, probably more towards the higher side, but we are going to continue with all the things I said and we'll see how the negotiations go in Europe. That's probably the main question mark that we have at this stage.
Hi, Ken.
Yes. Yes, your first assumption is correct in the sense that we are trying to offset the dollar impact of the inflation that we're seeing on our input costs, and we're not pricing for percentage margin, but offsetting that dollar impact, which yes, we believe is a reasonable position.
I think this year, seeing the situation in Europe and the fact that the retailers are seeing probably some deflation in other areas of their business, it is a little bit of an explanation to explain that not only cocoa, but also sugar or hazelnut are showing significant inflation, which is not the expectation. I think by now they understand that it has to happen in chocolate, so we have high hopes that we will be able to land that in a good way.
As it relates to elasticity, I would say the elasticity in Europe has been very reasonable. We might maybe expect a little bit of an uptick as prices keep on going up for a third year in a row, particularly in chocolate. But there is very little or low down-trending within the category, because everybody will have to price. So it's a joint movement of all the brands. So we don't expect that there will be huge differences between different brands and no shifting of consumers.
What we've seen in the past year is a strong price increase of 12% to 15% in Europe in chocolate, with a very limited 0% to 0.5% effect on volume. And so that shows that elasticity is very low. We think that is driven because of strong brand loyalty. The fact that chocolate has a very distinct taste profile and consumers tend to stick with their chocolate brand because they like taste and people recognize the taste of their brand. So private label is very small and people do not tend to switch brands very easy. We call it the taste of the nation. Every country has their favorite chocolate.
And then on top of that, we will do significant investments, very strong activations. We've been driving seasonals very hard. The next year, we will celebrate 200 years of Cadbury, which will be a major activation in the U.K. So all that combined make us believe, and we have proved in the past, that the elasticity will be limited to our opinion in chocolates in Europe.
Well, roughly, you can assume, for the markets where we can drive significant numerical distribution, I'm talking about China and India, but we are now also starting to drive very hard in places like Brazil. We -- probably in those markets, you can expect that about 50% of our organic growth is driven through distribution expansion. On a global basis, we're probably talking about 2% of our extra growth coming from this.
The runway of this is still quite big, to give you a few numbers. So, since 2019, we've added 1.7 million stores in China, India and Brazil. But, for instance, our biscuits are now in about 3 million of the potential 6 million stores in China, or our gum business is only in 2 million of the 6 million potential stores. In India, we've added 180,000 stores in '23. We deployed 100,000 new VISI coolers, but there is over 900 -- sorry, 9 million retail outlets. We cover directly 2 million and we have about 3 million that are indirect coverage. So we're in 5 million of the 9 million stores in India. And I can go on, on different countries. So I gave you the percentages, what it means for us. And the other message here is that the runway, the years that we can keep on doing this are quite significant going forward.
Thank you.
Yes, yes, we are aware that the distribution expansion needs to be very well monitored. So what we're putting in place is a direct connection because we use mainly distributors to make this happen, is a direct connection to their system. So we can read what they sell per store and what the sell-in is, how much the replenishment is. So we monitor that very carefully.
We go slow in some of the cities where we're doing the expansion so that we make sure that we can see that setting up the whole distribution system is profitable and that it can be maintained. So we've had no surprises so far. I've done this many times in my career and I've had surprises, but so far things have gone quite smoothly.
I think our teams around the world know what to do. They're on top of it. We usually accompany these distribution expansions with very heavy activation in the cities that we are doing this. So we feel pretty good that we have a very controlled way of doing it. And like I said, so far we've had no surprises whatsoever with this.
Yes, we are still in a relatively experimental phase with that. We are, for instance, mainly experimenting with this in Latin America, largely in channels that we don't have immediate big coverage. So as an example, I would say bars in Brazil would be typically something that we don't cover directly or indirectly at the moment. But we have started to have a presence and we are monitoring how that is going.
I would say those tools help you -- help the retailer order directly and get our products in there. It helps us to understand how much the store sells. And yes, we can monitor promotions. As a tool to monitor how our distribution is evolving, it's probably complementary to the other system I was talking about, but we prefer at this stage to monitor that through our distributors, because the way it works is they will order through this new app and then we, through our normal distribution system, will deliver, or we will use a third party to do it. So that's usually the source of the monitoring of distribution, not necessarily the new app for us.
Thanks.
Yes, I think you said it right at the end there. In the fourth quarter, if you think about it, on one hand, we had a good year, and we were coming with a price increase, which, by the way, has been agreed in the U.S. in the beginning of the year, so no need to push in volumes from our side. Then we had the Clif system integration changeover, and so we needed to bring our inventory down and manage it very tightly. And then we talked about the Give & Go holiday kits that we stopped selling because the margins were not interesting for us.
So if I exclude those and look at the rest of the business, the volume mix performance in Q4 was, in fact, quite good. So we're expecting a good volume mix performance right away in Q1 of next year. It is really a one-off situation in Q4. So we don't really necessarily feel like there is a slowdown in North America. It's not going to be massive volume growth, but it's going to be positive volume growth in the beginning of the year. So that's where we are. It's not going to be a slow build-up. We will continue where we are without the exceptionals that we had in Q4.
Thanks.
Hi, Alexia.
Yes, we are going through a bit of a change in the way we look at innovation. If you think about our business around the world, we have quite a rhythm of small innovation, new flavors, new sizes of packs, as we do PPA and RCM. But that leads to hundreds of small projects which do drive our business. But we are gradually eliminating probably close to half of those small projects because, in fact, over time, they don't have that much of an impact on the business. Since overall, our business is doing well, we can afford to do so. And we are shifting our focus to bigger innovation projects.
So the ones that I would mention is, first of all, making healthier versions of our mainstream products. So I'm referring to, for instance, what you've seen so far, an Oreo gluten-free or Oreo zero sugar in China, gluten-free in the U.S., doing quite well. And you can expect that we will continue expand those efforts across other brands.
Then we are entering quite significantly in cakes and pastries. And there you can expect us to push quite hard. And so you could see the OREO Cakesters or the Oreo Airy Cake in China. And these are all significant innovations that have the potential or tens of millions of dollars of net revenue per country. We're pushing hard on premium chocolate, so we launched, for instance, the [Toblerone pralines] (ph), or we have done some big innovations on our core chocolate tablet. So these are bigger innovations that require more work, higher potential, but we are reshifting our efforts towards those. So I don't know if I would call that what you were asking, Alexia.
Do we see picked up the pace of innovation? I think the impact of innovation on our growth will increase in the coming years, but it's not driven by more innovation, it's driven by better innovation, I would say.
Yes, everything you're saying is true. Let me explain it a little bit. I would say the consumer, as it relates from a behavior standpoint, as in the fourth quarter show the biggest shifts, and I can explain a little bit the shifts that we've seen. But from a mindset perspective, from a confidence perspective in North America, probably the best in the last 2.5 years. So what they're doing is still reflecting sort of the tension they're under, but they are expecting the economy to improve and that better times are ahead for them.
So what are they doing? We see a little bit more of an elasticity effect. And the way they react to that is they're waiting more. We see particularly light buyers waiting for promotion. So not buying with the same frequency, but buying more when it's on promotion. We see them downsizing, going to smaller formats and buying more of those. We see shift in channels. They go to club channels, e-commerce channels, that's the one we see winning.
And then we have a number of sort of mechanical effects that we're seeing, particularly the snap reduction in the U.S. And so we see less disposable income for a certain group of consumers. But overall, I would say we expect that that gradually will improve because of that mindset change that I was saying. So the overall volume expectations as the year goes by in the US, we're expecting to accelerate and to get better. That's a little bit our view on the US consumer at the moment.
All right, thank you. Well, thank you. I think that was the last question. As we said, we feel very good about '23. It was a great year for us. We are entering '24 with good momentum. I think we're prepared for everything that we are seeing ahead of it. And as I said, there is some issues that we have to look at. But despite all that and including those effects into our forecast for the year, we think that we're going to have a strong year.
We'll see how the client disruption goes in Europe. So we have to wait a little bit to see how the first quarter goes by. But overall, we think we will have an on to the higher side of our algorithm year at this stage that we can forecast.
Again, thank you, and happy to answer any other questions that you would have through our IR department.