Wendell Weeks
Wendell Weeks
Corning Incorporated (GLW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
So we continue to expect BEAD funding really to start to translate into demand, the beginning of it, sort of late this year. They are progressing with awarding the grants and it will just take a bit for those to turn into real programs. So we expect sort of late this year.
Sure. Thanks, Wamsi. So, as you would expect, we expect the market to normalize at a different rate depending on the market. And then we expect our more Corning pieces to come in, in timing with the particular innovation. So those will have some markets that will begin this year. And we'll have some which will make even more progress as time goes on. When we say midterm, by and large we mean that within the next three years that we will see all of it, right? But we'll start to see it beginning to happen sooner in different markets. Does that make sense, Wamsi? Is that responsive to your question?
Okay. So it's a little harder to answer that because the actual opportunity between our markets returning to normal and our more Corning activities is larger than the $3 billion. So -- and then we discount back to what we're talking to you about, right? And so therefore, when you do the relative shares, it gets non-trivial to figure out. But I think, Wamsi, your fundamental grasp that the biggest individual mover will be that 40% up opportunity in optical, I think your own thought processes here are really solid.
Sure.
So, I'm not positive I understand your question, but let me tell you how we tend to think about pricing and display. And it really sort of ties back to Ed's commentary around the yen. You've seen us do in really across our whole platform that we have sought to share inflation more appropriately with our customers. And that has led us to be a price increaser across our company and that has helped us improve our profitability. In display, we've been doing that. Perhaps more importantly is almost the reverse of that. What has happened with the yen being so well below, at sort of 130 year -- I mean it’s a 30-year average, is that our customers are getting a lower price real in yen, right, while they sell in dollars. And we're fundamentally seeking to share that more appropriately with our customers. And so what we say is like, either the yen will come back sometime here in the reasonable point of time, right? Or we will raise price to provide an industrial solution to have us be in a position where we can continue to earn the appropriate return on our invested capital in display that our shareholders expect rightly. So what Ed's commentary there on pricing has to do with is really tying around the totality of that situation and how our customers experience their price since we price in yen. Does that make sense to you, sir?
Thanks, really excellent question. So first, that tick-up you see, right, in our data, isn't big enough yet for us to go, oh yeah, it's happening the way we expect. Right? It's encouraging, but it's too small for us to over-conclude something analytically. Anecdotally, the conversations with our customers and what we can see from their data is that they are deploying at higher rates for carrier customers, to get to your question of where is it. They continue to deploy in those numbers at higher rates than their purchases. So they continue to draw down numbers in that piece. I think the other -- now moving beyond just that fiber shipment data, right, what else are we seeing? We are beginning to see the tick up already in hyperscale in our order book, not yet in those shipments that you see in that data. So there's an area where we're starting to get nice confirmatory to our anecdotal understanding of what will need to happen with these new Generative AI networks. And we're seeing sort of the cloud and the beginning, the leading edge of that second optical network that will need to get built to do these Generative AI programming. So that is what we're seeing in more of the detail. It's just too early yet for us to over-conclude and call timing. We'll know more in the coming months. Ed and Jeff and Ann are out there speaking with you all, they will make sure they share as we learn more. Does that work for you?
I understood the first question. I think what...
Did our price increase lead to a disturbance of our market position. And we see no significant change in our market position as a result of our pricing actions to share more appropriately where the yen is at and where inflation is at.
So, excellent question. The answer is yes, we have done those. And we'd be happy to share this. We'll put that on our list to at some point in time this year. To be a little more responsive to the specifics of your question, China is just behaving a little differently than what you would normally expect on display demand as a country goes through its development cycle. And you are right, it seems to be net underperforming. We are not counting on, in the dialogue that we've been having with you about the $3 billion spring that we have. We are not counting on China “sort of” reverting to a more traditional demand cycle. We're continuing to expect that to be relatively below trend for the foreseeable future. Does that make sense to you, Martin?
I still think that the biggest thing that drives the seasonality or the different demand in different, I don't even know what to call it, seasonality, the different demand in different quarters is major product launches. And also major product launches not only of our customers, but also of us introducing a major new category defining product. And any sort of real analysis of this sort of points to it's the product, right? So I don't know that we can over-conclude much beyond that yet, Mark.
Thank you. I think perhaps, my emphasis was a little wrong in talking about BEAD. We expected to start, this is what I was trying to say, it's not going to be a big mover in 2024. I think your understanding is correct. It starts to become a much bigger mover in 2025. So if I created any dissonance with that understanding that you had, I didn't mean to. I think you have a correct understanding of it. It's just that it actually, it has been not there and now it's going to be there beginning in 2024. But the bulk of it starts after that.
Yes.
I thought you'd take yes.
Yes. And no, we're not going to share what timing we will.
It's too involved with our customers. I'm not being non-responsive. That's why I really do think that yes is about right. This is super important with our customers. And so we want to get that pretty well advanced and have a high confidence of where we're going to end up before we share that with our shareholders, right, so that we can make sure we're as accurate as possible. And that's -- so I'm not going to give ourselves an exact timeline, but this year, you can expect us to do that.
On your question of, in our discussions with our customers, sort of what are the anecdotals, and it's a really good question because sometimes highly quantitative analysis and data points one way and anecdotal evidence points the other, right? And in those situations, that's telling you, there's dissonance there and how do we dive deeper to make sure we have the right data set and how do we create an understanding of those things that are pointing differently. In this case, what we're seeing is the anecdotals are in support of what we're seeing in our deeper analytics in our understanding of being well below our long-term trends and a need for that to revert back towards those underlying huge secular trends that drive our demand over time. So basically reinforcing the opinion of the data. And that is what we tried to reflect in what we discussed with you today.