Phil Gallagher
Phil Gallagher
Avnet, Inc. (AVT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah. Thanks, Ruplu. Yeah, let me start with the first part of your question. I would say it was a surprise. I would just say it was just terrific execution in the quarter by the teams. The inventory came in and as we've been saying, we work with the customers to get it back out and I think the team just did a really nice job. We saw continued strength in the markets we're very strong in, industrial, transportation, automotive, and of course defense. So as the quarter went on, it just continued to stay strong.
So maybe But I think it's really execution by the team. And as we've been saying for quite a long time, Ruplu, inventory is not a bad thing, okay, when you have the right inventory, right? So, we are able to get the inventory in and get it back out. On the inventory itself as we touched on in the call, right, last quarter, I had said, I think it's industry inventory correction. I think that's still playing out in a two to three quarter time frame, I think that's basically what we saw as inventory sequentially were up really modestly. So I think that's still playing out.
And again, the inventory is healthy. I mean so it's not a bad thing. And I also want to just note, I mean, we talked about inventory. It's not everything, okay? There is a handful of suppliers that tend to be heavier weighted, where we're growing the inventory. There's other areas, trust me, we'd like to have more inventory. So we kind of generalize inventory often is one lump sum. But it's -- not all inventories are the same. So hopefully that answered your question there, Ruplu?
Yeah, let me work backwards and I'll turn it over to Ken on the expense. Yeah, we're going to take a few quarters to get back over to 10%, Ruplu, in Farnell. Again, we had some -- as we talked about, we had some FX issue in Farnell and some product mix shipments were some of the -- some of the products that we're getting the upside on which we've talked about in previous years, last 18 months is flattening out or coming down from the pricing pressure standpoint where we had some, let's call it non-traditional customers coming in and buying more product from Farnell.
So let's say the on-the-board components coming down a little bit with some margin headwind with things like single-board computer, which we've been talking about that were heavily backlogged and that's starting to catch up with the long pole and tent parts that we were looking for there. Yeah, and those shipments are going up and that's good business for us. So make it no mistake. It just tends to be lower calorie margin, okay? Just still drives dollars, just not percent. So yeah, long assured, it's going to take us couple of quarters or so to get back into that double-digit, maybe two or three quarters. Ken, on OpEx?
Yeah, I'll add to that, Ruplu, just good pickup and thanks, Ken. [Technical Difficulty] modeling with finance evolve and what's the cash flow impact and return. So they're not -- it's not just something that is happening, it's very strategic, it's positive for the company. It will just drive up the inventory a bit probably neutral to working capital and should be good returns for the company. Outside of that, the inventory should be stable, flat to down a little bit.
Thank you, Ruplu.
Yeah, good question, Joe. Predominantly, it's in Farnell. It's just the way that they -- it's pretty complex. I'm trying to explain it, but the way they procure products and sit on it, they have a lower inventory turns, one to two per year So they just got caught upside down a little bit on the FX and then just the natural pricing pressures where they had some, again, as we spoke up before, some additional inflation on a -- in prior 18 months or so with pricing. On the component side, as we said in the script, when we got the pricing passed on to increased pricing from the suppliers, we just [hash] (ph) that on. We didn't mark it up again to the end customer, right? So we made these long-term arrangements.
So what we're seeing is actually stabilization in pricing compression there, but always do. It's multi source, that's about how you buy and how you sell. So that's not really -- that's not unusual, but in the higher end products, high micros and whatnot, the input -- as long as the input costs are continuing to stay where they are or go up, we don't believe there's going to be the pricing pressures or ASP erosions that maybe we've seen in the past. I mean, as you know, Joe, the gold, silver, palladium played them down a little bit. Silver, copper, they're still up, okay, and labor costs remain elevated. So as long as they remain elevated and the input costs are up, we don't see the suppliers for the most part, bringing prices down. We'll see, but we don't think so.
Yes, short term, yeah, we're reading the same things and seeing some of the same talk of the suppliers, but short term, we don't see that have any major effect on us. Probably a better question for the suppliers.
[Technical Difficulty] across all the regions, spend a lot of time in Taiwan with the Taiwan team, but also the regional leaders from China, Southeast Asia and Japan. And as you said, yeah, the demand is definitely down a bit. no question about it. But there's some good signs around optimism over the next, let's say, several quarters, tough to call to call because there’s -- might be more optimism in some industrial applications versus consumer or vice versa. But we did hear a lot about and you're reading a lot about the wind, solar, the energy storage and charging that in China is basically backing and we're well positioned there. So as we position ourselves, we're -- I’m not bullish by any stretch, but I'm not negative either. I think there's some positive signs and China will bounce back. There's no doubt we're well positioned there. But across Asia Pac, overall, again, stable. Japan has been positive for us. But I should add also that we're not overly weighted, Joe. We're not overly weighted to China within Asia or certainly .
Yeah, thanks, Matt. I'll let Ken jump in as well. I appreciate the compliment. Yeah, just to reiterate, Europe just remained -- continues strong. I mean, December, March, June, it’s back to Ruplu's first question, it's been pretty phenomenal. We're just as company and industry, we're well positioned there with the industrial home transportation play. And then the Americas has been terrific under Dana's leadership and the team doing a nice job.
As far as seasonality, beyond, we don't typically guide as you know, into December or March because it is tough to call. There's a lot of mixed signals, Matt, out there. Been using that term, no pun intended, but there's so many mixed signals. As I said in the script, I haven't seen this much complexity in our industry in a long time because there's still a lot of really good things happening in transportation, even still in charging, in battery, in industrial that's offsetting some of the other markets.
But again, I want to stick to what I said last quarter. I think it's a two to three quarter more of an inventory correction. And I think as we get into 2024, we're going to start seeing some additional growth. December quarter is tough one to call because the East, what's going to happen in Asia with -- starting September, as you know, in October, remember, we start to see an uptick there. And we do think that will happen, that I can say. We do think we'll see an uptick, a modest uptick, but an uptick in Asia Pac in the -- this quarter as well in December.
Yes. Matt, I think let me just jump -- but I think we are going to start seeing some more normal seasonality. Define normal, Matt, in the last three years, right? But I do think we're going to start to see more of a typical summer quarter in Europe, where we hadn't seen that in the last several years due to COVID and whatnot. And I think we'll start seeing more of a typical seasonality coming out of Asia as well.
Thanks, Matt.
Yeah. Hi, Melissa, thanks. Yeah, we're really pleased with the Americas from where we were three, four or five years ago and what we're working doing, we're still at 80% there, probably back to the issues we had with the ERP, which is well behind us. So we're about 80% where we think we need to be. Closing it to Europe, Europe's -- well, always strong message. But really the last 10, 15 years, it's been a higher-margin operating business for us. We tend to get higher gross margins in Europe as well. And so I don't know that we'll close the gap with Europe -- I'm certainly challenging the Americas team to do that. But I want Americas to -- I want to Americas to catch Europe, not Europe catch Americas. But -- that's really it on that. So we're pleased with the progress overall. And Melissa, what was the second part of your question?
Yeah. Asia, a lot of that mix, it's just volume. I mean we're pleased with the returns in Asia. So we measure Asia, both on operating margin as well as return on working capital. So they'll have a higher returns model. So the returns in Asia have come up nicely. We've had particular success as well in Japan, which has been really terrific, and that's getting closer to some of the models in the West. But overall, Asia, I think we're in about the right spot in Asia, based on the volume that that drives for us and the drop-through we get with that. We could shrink Asia and grow the operating margins, right? But that always isn't the most strategic thing to do.
Thanks, Melissa.
Well, I want to thank everyone for attending today's earnings call, and wish you all a great rest of the summer, and I look forward to speaking to you again at our next fiscal quarter earnings report in November. Thanks a lot.Avnet, Inc. (AVT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript