John Wren
John Wren
Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure. Well, the comps in the first quarter remain probably the most difficult comps that we have going into the year, but it's not that as much as it is Flywheel, which we closed on January 2 is just seasonally natural at least stronger in the second half than the first. So that's one point. And as I said in my prepared remarks, A number of the new business wins we had late in the third quarter, early in the fourth quarter or throughout the fourth quarter. Whilst we won them and we have to ramp up our expenses in order to handle them with the notice periods, the companies that lost those accounts. We don't start getting revenue really until the second quarter or so.
So the additive tailwind for that won't happen until then. You're absolutely correct that as we go through the year, if all of those well. The Olympics will add something to the revenue as will the U.S. election add something as we get a little bit later into the second quarter than the third quarter. And there'll be a tail to it also in the fourth quarter. So that's kind of reflected in the range that we have given you. And we want to emphasize that whilst we expect this to ramp it didn't start ramping on January 1.
Sure. There's a lot there. First of all, AI is just AI. We've been investing in that for close to a decade more seriously in the last 5 years, you see it reflected in Omni Assist. What they're really talking about is the impact of Generative AI, I think, and what it's going to do to the entire landscape. And we've taken a view that it's going to make us more productive and make what I refer to as our knowledge workers, better, faster able to get come up with better answers and insights for our clients. It's unknown territory. One of the immediate concerns we had, and it's reflected in comments that I made earlier and it was released in November, when you look at AI and technology always travels faster than society's ability to absorb it and the laws and regulations that generally follow it. So making certain that we don't expose our clients to anything that can be create a problem because of its -- because it was handled improperly, is key. And the first move we made there was entering into the DoD [ph] images. So we're capable of accessing those and teaching our programs and platforms, how to utilize that in a fast and efficient way. And more of those type of arrangements are going to occur as we go forward. Also, I think the cost governments will be late in catching up with how they want to protect the consumer, we're going to have to tread very carefully. So I think our ability to do things will exceed whether or not we will use them to do things. And we're going to put the clients' interest and safety above all in that consideration set. In terms of bettering of products and things that we're doing, we already have a few clients who we're bettering products with who are very aware of the risks associated with it that we're going to break a few things. We're going to -- but at the end of the day, we're going to create a better, more efficient way. I'm going to throw the question to somebody who's sitting here as well. My colleague Paulo, who has been first and foremost in Head's committees, look at this. So, Paulo?
Certainly, there'll be easier comps. But as you suggest, I don't think in our prior calls, we've been learning too much about the impact that technology has had whereas I think our competitors have had much greater hits, which probably means that they buy have much easier comps going forward. But yes, we expect an uplift from the base of technology clients that we have in the forecast as it rolls through the rest of the year.
Well, I'll answer the second part of your question first. Media certainly was stronger in advertising, but we choose to treat it as one reporting entity when we put both of those numbers together because quite often, they've come together. More specific than that, I don't think is a protective way to look at the business. Yes, there are a lot of strength in the fourth quarter in media. There are a great number of projects and spending that was conservatively held back and then released into the fourth quarter, and we benefited from it, as you can see in the numbers. And I would say that was through the West including Western Europe.
Sure. There's a lot there. You bring up an interesting point, and I probably won't do justice to it in my response. But creative is our IP at the end of the day. What you see in a reflection or your guess as to the impact on the way that the business has been organized and then reported. What you see is technology has probably had a greater impact on the traditional setup of an agency in terms of how we can utilize great ideas and through algorithms and through automation, deliver those ideas to the right venue to present them to reach customers. And so that has an impact.
That in fact, is why we don't separate the two because they feed off each other. But I think one of the things, that is always differentiated us is actually the quality of our creative products and the quality of our agencies and people that we're able to attract and that's not to be diminished because some is trying to do an analysis, which doesn't -- is not really reflective of what we're trying to accomplish. And so you have to -- you do have to look at them jointly. And we fully expect that it's going to continue to shift. But to our benefit, as we bring other technologies and benefits to the client because any time we can save $1 and prove that we've saved it effectively for a client, then my experience that the client expands their relationship with this. So I'm very confident about that. I would never want to lose that IP that created IP because of shift in the way that organizing. The second question?
Sure. Conflicts really are not. It's been quite a while since it really has become a topic or an item that concerns us. Most clients are very sophisticated these days and they're more interested in the teams of people that are servicing them on a consistent basis. And we -- and I think you'd see this experience throughout the industry have been able to cope very comfortably with that because those people never meet, it's only at the holding company level that they get consolidated. With respect to sectors, there will be challenges and all, and there will be benefits in some, and some will have low comps, and some will have more difficult comps. The one area that has never been strong or as strong maybe as it could be for Omnicom is in CPJ. And I think that with changes that we made first to the Commerce Group in terms of leadership, and then with the addition of Flywheel and the expertise that it brings, Omnicom now has thousands of more people who are confident in addressing the needs of CPG type of cans. And I think we'll be more competitive than we've been historically in that area as a result. So I'm very excited about that. We're still doing this. I think maybe, Duncan, if we turn it over to you first, if you want to comment on -- add some commentary on your side.
Sure. When you look at where the strength was, the fourth quarter really has three components to it. Its clients releasing projects. New business wins in its impact. And then if you've lost anything where you're feeling that impact as you net down to what we report as organic growth. I'd say that -- the project work came in very strong, stronger than we expected in some parts of Western Europe. And we have a thesis about why, but it's certainly not something we plan for. It came in decently in North America. But North America, is where we were cycling through a number of losses that occurred in the advertising sector over a year ago. And when you lose something that's bad news, but then you have to live with it as you cycle through it. So all that is the alchemy of how you get to organic growth and as a result, that makes us -- we're still cautious about this year because of all the unrest and the Fed hasn't really started reducing rate yet. But in terms of what issues we had there for the most part, behind us. And some of the new business wins have not -- we haven't started benefiting from yet. So I'm very comfortable that 2024 will probably wind up looking more traditional than 2023 did. In terms of cookie deprecation, that's something we've been fully expecting for a very long time, but I could chat about it, but I'm going to throw it to Paulo because he's more of an expert and more closely deals with it on a day-to-day basis.
Pharma, we remain very optimistic on. The only headwind I think we face as we go into '24 with Pharma was earlier in the year, we lost Pfizer, so we'll be cycling through that. But the only limitations we are currently looking through, not things that we haven't won or we haven't been asked to work on, but have they gotten through the FDA because pharma. And just the simple science of things in the advances that are occurring give us tremendous opportunities to continue to grow. And I think that will be not only '24 but '24 and beyond a very strong sector for us.
Autos, when it comes down to is, we're very well represented in autos, and I think we have the best clients one could ask in the sector. There is this tension going on in the marketplace that most auto OEMs are dealing with in terms of what's the mix between the electric cars that we're going to be out in the market, more conventional cars and hybrid. And there's a lot of decision-making and a lot of long lead times that go into that. But in terms of the sector itself, there's no question. It becomes an information platform for the OEMs as we go forward and the more merrier from my perspective. And as Duncan mentioned, now with the addition of Flywheel, there was a whole sector of aftersales parts that we could do a modest job on, but now we can do a much more robust job when you look through how those goods are distributed to the ultimate consumer, which is, in many cases, an increasingly in marketplaces. So it's been a strong sector. It should even get stronger for us as we extend that over the coming months and years, and we're very comfortable with it.
And don't lose sight of the fact that in '24 as we get into it, we do have the Olympics. We do have a presidential election, and it's been my experience that presidential election years are generally very good one way or the other for the economy, and there gets to be some tension in the media marketplaces, especially in the U.S. as you get later in the year. So that makes people, fosters people to make decisions sooner. And if the Fed comes through and starts to cut, that will be the beginning of, I think, fuel to aid in the outcomes that I just suggested will be there. So we're cautious, but we are optimistic.