Ed Breen
Ed Breen
DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (DD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Good morning, Scott.
Scott, I'd also say, I think we said on the last earnings call, there's a couple of end markets we would probably have to give up a little price to maintain our market position. I don't want to get into the details what they are on the call. But generally speaking, we have been holding price across the platform and we continue to hold price across the platform. So, really no change there at all.
Yeah. So, Scott, it was very interesting. I'll just kind of give you an overall DuPont comment on orders and then specifically the water business in China where we've seen a real significant destock. And by the way, overall, it was really interesting to watch. We were still declining, as we said, in the fourth quarter on our order rates. But through the month of January, we've had high single-digit growth pretty much across the platform except for Kalrez and biopharma, which we expect to come back later in the year before they pick up.
I'll give you two other data points which are really interesting. And the water business declined in the fourth quarter, but through the first month of January, our orders were up 13%. And a chunk of that was the water business in China. And interestingly there, as you look at the order pattern of that increase, most of that starts May on, which is about what our distributors have been telling us when they bottom out on their inventory.
And just another data point because it was one of the other ones we saw destock as we went through the back half of the fourth quarter was our safety orders, which include medical packaging, which was another one that had a significant destock. Those orders were up 10% in the month of January. And that, by the way, is a shorter cycle book than water. Water is the only one we kind of get booked out three months, four months because people are accustomed to having the book out that far, but most of our other businesses are very short cycle.
So, the 10% up on the safety orders and medical packaging would bode well for the lift that we're expecting to see from first to second quarter on the top-line. So, it was really interesting, we were going still negative going into the end of the year and now pretty broadly positive for the month of January.
Good morning, Mike.
Well, I think, there was a couple of things. I think we got hit a little harder than we were expecting in the fourth quarter, simply because it was most people's fiscal year end, and they're aggressively trying to work down inventories. By the way, as DuPont did, we were aggressively doing it. We accelerated it, as you could see from our cash flow and our inventory position even more in the fourth quarter. So I think it was just trended a little more than we expected.
I'd also say I would add to that, remember that in W&P, specifically, 50% of our business goes through distribution. So, they can easily tell you just shut it off for two months or three months and don't ship them yet. And that's what we saw a little bit more of than we were expecting. But very interesting, as I said, it is a month, it's not a quarter yet, but most of those and those distributor orders turned around in the month of January. And again, it was pretty broad-based across the portfolio, ex a couple of these end markets that I talked about.
And specifically, by the way, in safety, the distribution orders sort of coming into January, shelter were very heavy through distribution. And we know we've bottomed that. We actually expect slight growth this quarter and that to build a little bit more as the year goes on. And then, I mentioned the water one already, that's 40% globally through distribution, and it was mostly our distributor customers that delayed orders, not our end customers. So that's kind of the dynamic, but very interesting to see this January thing now.
And just, Mike, just an overall comment, we're 90% of short cycle company. It can go down pretty quickly and it can go up pretty quickly. A lot of this is hangover from COVID excess inventory, people working it off. And so, you can see the bounce back also.
Good morning.
Yeah. So, by the way, just a few bullet points on kind of first half, second half ramp there, obviously, the increased semi fab and PC utilization rates, remember, semi is a very high-margin business for us. So, we see that coming back. And we've already started to see, as we just commented slightly, we're seeing an improvement. It was about 2% in the quarter. So, we clearly bottomed out there and we'll now lift. Destock will be mostly complete in the second half of the year.
The only ones that might slip into the fourth quarter and we've taken that into account as biopharma and Kalrez, although many in biopharma think that's going to lift by the inflection point at the middle of the year, we're a little more cautious than it's -- maybe more of a fourth quarter, and then clearly improved factory absorption from the hits we've been taking there to keep inventory in line. And then we'll have more of the cost savings from the restructuring program. So, I'd say that's the big items that kind of build first half, second half. And obviously, just volume ramp in general because of destock ending.
Thanks, John.
Good morning, David.
Well, David, I think, look, we've got -- we're working our way through this destock. And I think the year is going to lift very nicely. I think we just have to be patient to see how it looks as we're kind of exiting 2024. And I think we haven't been in stability here with the destock going on in the short cycle nature. But to your point, David, it's a phenomenal franchise. We're in the sweet spot of it. We got a lot of upside coming with the AI opportunity. All these new facilities, fabs we have built are mostly advanced chips, which plays even more to our strength. So, when people can really see these numbers cranking again, as we're going through the second half of the year, we'll see how the company is valued.
Well, I think we're within days or a couple of weeks of the judge finally getting the whole water district thing done at all. I think it was just -- they're probably waiting. I think what's going on is they're just waiting to get one announcement from all the companies out. And I think 3M just last Friday, had their kind of I'll call it a preliminary hearing. So, I think that's very, very close to being finalized here.
And then, nothing will happen on the personal injury cases most likely this year. However, our kind of take is, we like to settle these things before there's any trial, but they are going through picking some of the -- who would be the initial ones that would go to trial. I think there's 28 of those on the list right now and the judge and all will narrow that down to a smaller group. But I don't think that's a 2024 issue on that.
Thanks.
Good morning, John.
Yeah, sales process works. We do a lot of application engineering and development directly with the top -- really, it's about 10 major customers in the semi side. So, it's really the win we get there, where it's processed at a fab is somewhat irrelevant to us. Although we like the fact that these fabs are coming on because the world thinks there's a lot of demand coming over the next cycle here in the semi world, which there should be because everything needs to chip nowadays and more of its advanced chips. But our win rate is really at the design stage with these 10 large customers around the world. And again, where they make it doesn't really matter that much to us, but still a very good sign. And I'd say, overall, market share does not shift much in this business. There is a couple of key players, especially on the higher-end chips and market share is pretty steady across the board year in and year out.
Good morning, Steve.
I think we're very coupled to it because the big -- one of the big demand drivers next year is data center and that's a lot of advanced chip applications. I won't say the customer's name, but there's one that's been out there very steadily that is requiring a lot of advanced chips that is a key customer of ours. So, that whole drive towards AI data center and the need for advanced chips plays right to the sweet spot of our portfolio. So no, we won't decouple at all. There's no area that's going to grow faster in the semi side that we won't participate in. That truly is our sweet spot as we go forward here. Remember, in a typical times, we've consistently outgrown the market to 300 basis points because of that dynamic.
Yes.
Thanks, Steve.
Yes. So, Aleksey, it's a great question. I would say true demand is down 3% or 4% negative. If you look at our direct customers we sell to over there, they have a little bit of destocking going on at their end, but by and large, when you look at their demand, again, they're in the 3% to 4%, some of them are 5% down, somewhere right in that range. But if you go to our distributor customers, they were down over 30%. And that's where we started to see orders come back through January for deliveries kind of in the May, June, July timeframe. And as I mentioned earlier, the water orders in January were up 13%. And a big part of that was the China orders from the distributors.
So, the market is definitely down a little bit. But if we could just get all the destocking to come back, that's a huge swing for us even if the market for a little bit stays down. So, the inventory in China on water will bottom in that kind of May, June timeframe. And that's why I think we're starting to, obviously, then see these orders, at least preliminarily in January, come in kind of for that time period.
Yeah, go ahead, Lori.
Thanks, Aleksey.
Thanks, Patrick.
Vincent, only twice in my like, I think, 26 years now doing this, has this happened. So, it's a very rare event. I mean it was obviously -- look, you know the semi stores, just they overshot so much on inventory. But a lot of this was COVID-driven, the craziness of the supply chain. It's just not something that would normally happen. It really is kind of one of those once in opportunities or dislocations let me say it that way. And by the way, interestingly, it goes down rapidly in a short cycle and can go up rapidly.
It happened -- by the way, the little bit of '08, '09 was destocking. It was mostly a true recession where demand was down, but I'd say about a third of that then turned into destocking because of the situation. And so, it got worse quicker than people were expecting, but that recovered also fairly quick. So, I don't -- I just don't see something like this happening again. And we are almost, as I said, almost all the short-cycle business so we really saw it across a lot of the portfolio in normal times, you're just not going to overshoot.
I mean, semi will overshoot once in a while, but not to the extent of what we saw here the severity of it.
Thanks, Frank.
Yeah. Arun, just turning to the electronics side, I don't think we're being overly aggressive. We've talked to our large customers when you look at the fab utilizations, we're basically going from the low 70%s we said to the low 80%s. In really good times, they run in the 90%s. So, we probably still have more upside that would kick in, in that part of the business even going into 2025. It's not all -- we're not assuming it all snaps back in 2024 to where it had been running.
I totally do...
No. I totally feel, in normal times, it will be more consistent portfolio. An unusual time here with the destock and the inventory build from COVID and all short cycle, but now these are good secular businesses. We've got good market position. So, we feel good about where we're at. Just got to get through this period and start lifting.
No, Steve. And by the way, we're tracking -- because of , we're tracking way closer with our distributors. The good news is our distributors in China, there's a handful of really big ones. So, if we can get our arms around that -- we've asked the competitive issue, and we're very close to them. I don't see any issues there at all.
Yeah, I would give you two and you just said the one. The lithium opportunity could be substantial for us because that needs a ton of filtration as you guys know. And the other, I would just say big trend out there that we've already talked to, but has a real good opportunity for us because it's in our sweet spot is the whole AI thing. I would say they would be the two big ones.
All right. Thanks, Steve.
And maybe just to add one for the longer term, and again, stabilized times, half this portfolio should outgrow GDP and the other half should grow with GDP, just to give you a feel, and that would be the magnitude. One of the things, as I mentioned a minute ago, still has to come back even more in 2025 is the semi industry and the utilization rates still decline from where we would exit '24.
Yeah, thank you.