Hal Lawton
Hal Lawton
Tractor Supply Company (TSCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, Chris, thanks for joining the call this morning. Yeah, on weather, I think as we reflect on last year, we had a lot of discussion on weather times felt like we're playing meteorologists. And I think we just decided to be prudent as we look at this year, not look at whether it's potential upside or downside as we called out, there's a number of other factors that could also influence our sales as the year progresses whether that be the agriculture market, oil, housing, et cetera. And instead, we just chose to focus on for the purposes of our guidance and range of outcomes this year, really the factors that we think are going to have the most influence on our sales as we can see it right now, which are our continued market share gains, offsetting the shift still in consumer spending from goods to services, as well as disinflation, which is dominantly a first half issue.
And then as it relates to competitive encouragement, I'd say we really haven't seen anything different in competitive activity for the foreseeable past. So it's been really, for the last -- since COVID, the competitive activity has been pretty stable, pretty rational. Our share gains continue to -- we continue to take share in the market, and really haven't seen anything out of the ordinary from a competitive perspective, whether that be in our farm and ranch -- core farm and ranch competitors or the multitude of other national retailers that we compete against as well.
Hey, Michael, good morning. Two things I'll hit on this. First is the long-term structural nature of our gross margin, and then I'll speak to the assumptions implied in 2024. On the long-term structural nature, there's two big shifts that I want to remind folks about that really have transferred rate out of gross margin and expense out of gross margin and into SG&A.
The first one of those is our field activity support team. As we've mentioned, it's nearly a 1,800-person team that where the expense falls in our SG&A, but the offsetting support provided by our vendors falls in gross margin. As we've talked about that several times in the past, that's roughly in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 basis points of shift.
Secondly, I would call out the continued transformation of our supply chain. From 2018 to 2023, our stem miles have reduced by 20%. And that basically means a truck going from a DC to a store. And so the impact of that is reduced freight cost on a like-for-like volume and rate basis versus, say, 2018, but there's obviously operating costs embedded in our G&A to run the two DCs we've opened since then and the 11 mixing centers that we've opened since then.
That is a benefit of roughly 60 to 70 basis points of the delta there. So when you add the fast difference and you add the supply chain difference kind of, call it, 75% of the gross margin difference that you quoted that 150 basis points is structural in nature and really a shift from SG&A to gross margin rate.
Now looking forward, I would say the balance that you see there in gross margin rate, I would attribute to our scale. As we talked about, we're almost double the size of the business that we were in 2018 when I quoted those stem miles. And that's accorded us the ability to obviously manage and run the business more productively, whether that's in freight and our negotiations with our freight providers or whether that's getting credit for our scale with our primary COGS vendors.
As it relates to this year, we do see continued benefit in the freight market, particularly in the first half of the year, and we've talked about that, particularly in the back half of last year and also in the first and second quarter some, but we do see continued freight benefit.
Also, as we've talked about in Q3 and Q4, and we also mentioned in our prepared remarks, we have been working very closely with our vendors on cost and have been rolling that cost where we've seen commodity prices come down and other cost impacts moderate or reduce.
We started that work, as we mentioned in past earnings calls, really in the summer time and the impact of those cost reductions are forecasted in our margin rate assumptions that Kurt laid out in his prepared remarks.
The last thing I'll mention is just on competition. We are as priced strongly in the market right now as we've been ever. And we have a number of initiatives that we have in place to really make sure we stand for value in the marketplace on our key, kind of, value indicating SKUs out there and feel really good about our price position and don't see any encroachment from competition just the same competitive intensity that we've seen over the last few years.
Broad-based, I'd just say, retail, in general, is rebounding some of the big ticket, and we could definitely see that as we approach kind of November and December.
Hey, Michael, it's Hal. Thanks for the question. I'd just say it's certainly, we saw some benefit from the weather in the first three weeks of January, really the second and third week, but January is our smallest month of the year, smallest month of the quarter. And the thing that the month that's really going to determine our comps for Q1 is going to be March. We are, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, very excited about our spring setup this year. We've got our most innovation in the last three or four years now that kind of the supply chain disruptions and all those things have been worked through.
Our vendors have been able to really spend the last year getting their innovation pipeline restarted. Our in-stock rates and our spring sets are back to the expected 95% plus that we historically have set at, and we feel great about spring. We're optimistic about Q1, as Kurt said, we're certainly expecting a positive comp. We're off to a good start with the month of January behind us. But really, the most important thing that we're focused on is having a win in March.