Calvin Butler
Calvin Butler
Exelon Corporation (EXC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Good morning, Shar.
Yes. Thank you, Shar. And as both Jeanne and I expressed, disappointment with the outcome. And the disappointment, I'll frame it first, that despite the high level of engagement with stakeholders, and the administration around the state's policy and alignment. And with the passage of the Climate Equitable and Jobs Act, the work that the team put in, and I need to give credit to Joe Jonas and his team for the amount of effort that they put in.
Let me take a moment to remind you of the steps that we're taking leading up to that final order, and we were tracking. Leading up January 2023 filing, Shar, we participated in 15 ICC led workshops with hundreds of participants. We responded to more than 10,000 data requests during that 11-month rate process, and we ended up with a proposed order that granted almost 80% -- 79% or so of our revenue requirement ask with only a $350 million gap in rate base or about 2% by 2027. But part of that process with all those stakeholders, the one group that we hadn't heard from was the Illinois Commerce Commission themselves. Well, now we have.
And our job is to align with what they are requesting. And we jumped right back in, as Jeanne outlined, into that stakeholder process. Jill and his team are meeting on a regular basis with those stakeholders to lay it out and to meet the objectives that seizure requires and what the commissioners want. And they outlined affordability, reliability, which their common goals.
Now it's just a matter of how do we get there. So to your question, what confidence do we have? We are building a plan to achieve those goals, and we will continue to talk with those stakeholders. But as Jeanne also laid out, we are ready to pivot if required. What I can tell you with assurance is that this 5% to 7% earnings growth is premised on multiple outcomes. We're taking those things into consideration, and we'll be able to make those adjustments. But we're going to put together and are putting together a plan to meet all of those objectives.
But let me just be very clear. Our priorities are the following: provides safe and reliable electricity for the citizens of Illinois and maintain a healthy, financially strong company. In that partnership, we think we can achieve there. We can achieve those goals. And we don't believe those goals are any different than the Illinois Commerce Commission. We heard their voice, and now we're leaning into that discussion. Jeanne, anything you'd like to add?
Thank you.
Hey, Steve.
Yes. No, thank you, Steve. I'll start with this, and then I have with me Gil Quiniones, who's the CEO of ComEd to really be in here as well. My view on this settlement, as I mentioned, Gil and his team are engaged with the stakeholders. We may read some settlement in discussions with stakeholders about what they're looking for, and we would submit it to the commission. But I think overall, a settlement in principle on the rate case, I think, is unlikely. The process will continue to play out. And the fact that, we are in the midst of a pending proceeding, we cannot speak directly nor should we, with the commissioners themselves. So our view of what they -- where they stand came in the form of their December 14 order, and we have a clear understanding. But what we can do and what we are doing is engaging with staff.
Consistently talking again as we did for the last two years. We're back reengaged in that process. And what we are providing them and sharing with them and then I'll turn it over to Gil is under the tenets of the Climate and Equitable Jobs Act. The need to align policy and practice, what the law says and what we need to do to carry it out seek some alignment between the legislative body and the commission to accomplish the shared goals of all of us. And that is our conversation from day one, and that will continue to be based on the feedback that they've given. Gil, anything you want to add?
Thank you, Steve.
Hey Julien.
So, let me take the last part first, and then I'll turn it over to Jeanne. So, as we talk about the 5% to 7% earnings growth, we are committed to midpoint or better. And I think Jeanne even referenced at least, right?
So, this is a plan that we've put together that's very prudent and our ability to achieve it. And we've demonstrated as an organization, we can take on headwind and continue to meet the target.
As I said, Julien, I'm so proud of the team and the commitments made and commitments kept, right? And we will continue to do that. You think about what we had to overcome in 2023 to deliver in excess of our midpoint to $2.38. So, that's the commitment there. And I'll let Jeanne talk about the additional equity and balance sheet and so forth.
Thank you, Julien.
Yes. And if I can just add, Ross, I think on what's critical, what Jeanne has said is that understanding Illinois is just one of our many jurisdictions in which we operate and what we continue to demonstrate in terms of the value of Exelon is our scale and size and the jurisdictions and the opportunities that exist across our platform.
We always talk about the power of the platform, and you saw it flexed in 2023, and you'll see it flexed over our long-range plan from 2024 to 2027. So Illinois is a focal area. And as I shared with you, it's a priority for all of us. I know Gil and his team are fixed on it, but we have other businesses that we will continue to run and as always, manage our costs and to ensure that we do it in a very pragmatic basis. Thank you for the question.
Gigi, thank you very much. And more importantly, thank you to everyone for joining today's call. We look forward to seeing many of you in 2024 and as committed for the upcoming spring conferences, Jeanne and I and Andy, the IR team will be on the road. They promised me that we'd be doing that. So thank you, and I look forward to engaging with all of you. But more importantly, I just want to say to the 19,500 employees here at Exelon. Thank you for everything that you guys do each and every day. So proud of the performance that we delivered in 2023, and I know we're just getting started. So with that, Gigi, that concludes today's call.