Troy Rudd
Troy Rudd
AECOM (ACM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. Thanks for the question. Good morning. So I would - I mean really our confidence in our growth is attributable to a number of different things. First is - we go through the same process every year that we do when we build up our plan. We start by looking at our backlog. And when you look at our backlog this year, our design business, which represents about 94% - 93%, 94% of our business is actually - our contracted backlog is actually up 15% this year. And so that gives us tremendous confidence. And then in our CM business, which represents about 6% of our business, we have about four years of work, so it sits in that business. So that's the starting point, is that just our backlog gives us great confidence that we can continue to grow, frankly, at the same rate we did in the second half of this year.
And then the other important element of this is just the overall markets that we play in. Our longer-term confidence even beyond the year is based on the fact that we are exposed to some long-term investment cycles in infrastructure and sort of resilient to your sustainability. You think about that as sort of things like supply chain shifts or investments in coastal resiliency. And then there's an energy transition. And so that also gives us confidence.
And then beyond that, 90% of our revenue is actually coming from four geographies. It's Canada, the U.S., Australia and the U.K. So all those things taken together give us confidence. And the one thing in the past that has sort of been a headwind to growth was actually the ability to add people fast enough to the business. And I think we've got in a position now where turnover is certainly voluntary turnover is at a much lower rate. And we're adding people to the business that are right that supports that growth. So all of that leads to confidence around our forecast for this next year.
Okay. Yes. Well, I'm going to take this a number of different ways. So first of all, if I look across the business. Overall, our exposure to commercial real estate is less than 3% of the entire business, whether that's construction management or the design business. And frankly, we continue to move towards the broader opportunities that exist in infrastructure.
And so the people in our business are, again, have been focusing perhaps on commercial real estate, have the skills to participate in other types of infrastructure, design, program management and even construction management. So again, across the entire business, less than 3% is our exposure to commercial real estate.
But if you sort of take a different cut at the business. Our exposure to business is to about 24% of our revenues from water, 35% from transportation, about just to say a little more 10% is from environment and, frankly, energy. And then the rest is our facilities business and construction management.
And within our design business, 70% of that design business is actually public sector focused. So within that, our private sector exposure within facilities is very small. But again, when you look at that, that facility's exposure is spread across a whole number of clients. And again, it's not in the commercial real estate. It's in private sector and data centers in transportation, decarbonization activities. So it's fairly well diversified.
So again, our confidence is fairly well spread across the business. And last four year is - our guidance takes into account our exposures to all of the businesses that we see globally.
Good morning.
I'll tell you what, Andy, we're going to give - we'll give more detail at the Investor Day. So this is a plug for you to show up. But we're focused on actually continuing to expand margins in the business and then we set a 17% target. And so that's where we are headed over a longer period of time and the things that we've done this year will contribute to that. But maybe for a little more detail. I'll turn it over to Gaurav.
Yes. So first of all, just a little bit of background on our growth. As I said earlier in the call, about 94% of our business is in our design business, and that includes program management, about 6% relates to construction management. And so our backlog in design has been growing rapidly. And I think I used the stat that our contracted backlog up 50% and again, our total backlog is up by a similar amount.
And so when we look at that breakdown, we do see the strength across our markets because we're seeing the pipeline of opportunities grow. I'm not certain that the pipeline of opportunities is necessarily driven the market, as you point out. I think it's frankly us increasing our exposure to our client spend and that's through program management. So we've been growing program management at disproportionately fast rate, and those projects are actually large and chunky. And so I would say that we are contributing to actually taking more of that client spend as our clients continue to invest.
So we're probably doing a combination, too, which is a little market share and actually participate in our growth, which sort of puts us beyond where I would say the industry average would be.
Absolutely. Yes. No, we absolutely do. You sort of look at where we are in terms of - I'll just use the IIJA as an example. And it's one example because across the world, we have our customer base actually continuing to invest strongly and announce even stronger investments in infrastructure. But on the IIJA, we started to see that come into the business. And so we're seeing that come into funding projects across the business, including design, and we actually see that pace picking up as we go through the next few years.
So yes, I don't want to - if I did, I didn't give the impression that design is not going to be growing at just as faster rate. But I think it's our - again, I think we're accelerating beyond what the market growth is because we are exposed to more of the client spend. And then frankly, we are winning work at a disproportionately high rate.
Our capture rate for the entire business has been over 50% for the last eight quarters. And capture rate - by definition, capture rate is for every $1 we bid, we win. And so we're winning out of every $2 in $1 of work, which is an extraordinary rate and up substantially from where it had been in prior years.
Yes. Thanks Andy.
So Steve, our program management pipeline is actually up year-over-year. And again, I don't have the exact stat, but approximately up about 20%. And so - and in fact, that's consistent with our overall pipeline being up 20% compared to the prior year.
So sort of think about it this way is, the overall investment spend is going up consistently and program management is just a part of the client spend or part of the client's budget. So we're seeing - again, we're sort of seeing that similar improvement in our pipeline across the board. And then what is different for us, though, is we obviously now spend more time in the marketplace focused on delivering program management, and that is growing at a much faster rate than the rest of our business.
Well, so digital advisory is a - it's a little bit different part of business. So we do have people that have provide you - provided what I call it digital solutions directly for clients. That the people that do that is have about 400 people that do it across the business. And that business grew almost 40% this year, and we see it growing at a double-digit pace. So it is a smaller business.
But what that means is as part of our traditional projects, those skills, they actually become part of the traditional projects. And then they improve how we deliver projects or programs and they actually have a margin impact. So I wouldn't focus on - again, digital consulting is an important growth opportunity for us, but it's not incrementally going to send out in our results.
However, as a result of what we're doing, we are continuing the progress of transforming how we deliver the work and that is contributing to our margin today, not in a way that is meaningful yet, but we see that eventually contributing to our margins in a very meaningful way.
And in terms of the advisory business, we already do have a reasonably healthy advisory business today, but we see that there's a market opportunity in energy transition. There are certainly a lot of organizations, our customers private and public, that are setting ambitions but they need the help to get there, and they need to help not from a traditional management consultant. But from someone that actually brings a real breadth of technical expertise and actually experiencing delivery and understanding of the technology that exists today and the technology that will be available in the future to develop a long-term energy transition plan. And obviously, that's all supported by infrastructure development. And so we're in the process of building that group.
We already have it up and running and operating but we would have similar ambitions that we do for program management to see that actually be a very significant business that we would call out in the future.
Good morning.
Yes, Mike, I'm going to pass that question over to Lara.
So I thank you all for joining today, and I look forward to providing a more detailed update on our progress and some more information on our long-term guidance at our upcoming Investor Day in December. Thank you.