Robert Isom
Robert Isom
American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Scott. Hey, look, we see, obviously, a tremendous demand. But we build our plan based on what we think is going to happen. Now that said, if other carriers are actually seeing that kind of benefit, it's going to accrue to American as well. And so I have no doubt that if there are adjustments to our assumptions based on any reason, whether that be capacity or demand that, look, we're going to be the beneficiaries as well as for overall economic performance in the U.S.
Yes. It does have an assumed flight attendant deal.
Hey, David. I just want to add one other thing here, which is, this is that we've built technology to enable us to react to whatever may come our way. So as Vasu has said that, look, our goal is to make sure that we can deliver a product to the customers the way they want to receive it. It also has to be done in a way that is incredibly nimble and can be changed.
And in the past you may have seen carriers, even American unable to react very quickly. That's not the case right now. So whatever happens in the marketplace, we've got the technology, we've got the product to be super competitive and whether it's us developing it on our own or having to compete, we'll be ready.
Hey, Katherine. Thanks. No, we're excited about the Investor Day. And look, we've worked really hard to put the focus of the company on doing the fundamentals really well. You know that we've talked about returning the company to reliability, profitability, strengthening our balance sheet by paying down debt. We're in a really great spot now to talk about what's next.
And on that horizon, we're going to be talking about the benefits of all the work that we've done on our fleet, everything we've done with our network and partnerships. Vasu's mentioned a number of times, even today, the potential within our loyalty program. We're going to talk about even doing better in terms of what we deliver to our customers. And ultimately, we want to talk a lot about how we can do that all a lot more efficiently.
One of the things you'll see is that in Americans, look, it's a changed airline. We have a focus on producing free cash flow and ultimately, rewarding our shareholders. So can't wait to tell you more about all of that.
No, Vasu can add some color to that. Look, January isn't -- it's been a strong month for us, but it's never the busiest months of the year. And so we'll fly load factors in the 70s. It's probably similar for the rest of the industry. And while I'm sure that there is benefit, I know that there is, it's not material when you think about the number of seats that are opened for all carriers and the overall size of the American Airlines business.
Hey, Andrew. Thanks. Well, look, we're really proud of the team and what they've accomplished. You think about American Airlines being the most reliable carrier in the country over the last 18 months, over the last year. So nobody can claim that they flew a more reliable schedule or canceled fewer flights and we're really proud of that. But I'll tell you, that's a baseline now that we can take going forward.
And you're right about the best way to run an airline is the most reliable. All the rework costs are taken out of it, but we're not going to stop there. We can do what we did and we can do it more efficiently. And I want to just hand the mic over to David Seymour to talk a little bit more about how he thinks we can bring things like technology to bear. David?
Yeah. Hey, thanks for the question. Look, I'll answer it in this way. We have been similarly enthusiastic and even a little surprised at how quickly the transition has happened. It's not just that we're 80% coming through Internet based technology. Within that, 65% plus is coming just strictly through our owned channels, which is our greatest rate of growth.
So first, I will say, strategically, we're going to distribute through the Internet. It's what our customers demand. It's how we give them the best fares and the lowest expenses and the best servicing. So at some point, the number becomes 100. And the real issue in 2024 is we want to just continue to transition as many of our retailing partners to use the Internet with us. So ultimately, it becomes 100. We're really encouraged by what we've seen therein.
Yeah. So, I'll just start, Conor. I think one of the things that I look at is that maintenance needs for the industry as a whole are going to increase greatly. American is really well positioned, not only because of what we've done over the past decade by bringing in more new aircraft than anyone, but as well remember that we have maintenance capabilities where we're not solely dependent on outside resources that are going to be incredibly constrained.
So one of the things that I know David can talk to us about is that we're going to make sure that we have even more capacity to do engine overhauls. We already have 12,000 mechanics, more than anybody else in commercial aviation and we're going to put them to good use. And I think that that's going to be even more of a strategic advantage for American as we take a look at a really constrained resource. David?
Yeah. And Vasu, I'll just add that, look, all of that kind of work will be a facilitator to delivering product faster, more efficiently and so that's the kind of mindset. So we're not -- I'd rather not talk about it just as a discrete item. We'll bring it altogether as we get to March 4th.
Hey, Ali. Look, a couple of quick things. First off, some of Boeing's current issues are all around the MAX 9 and the 737-900s. American Airlines does not fly those aircraft. We're a huge Boeing customer, though, and we're dependent on them for just producing. [Technical Difficulty] We're going to hold them accountable. Boeing needs to get their act together. The issues that they've been dealing with over the recent period of time, but also going back a number of years now is unacceptable. And no matter who it is, all of Boeing needs to come together and to get back on the right track.
So, look, we will encourage Boeing to do everything that they can to get back on track and produce a quality product, plain and simple. For us, we have a fleet right now of over 1,500 aircraft, so we have 20 MAX 8s that are on the horizon for this next year. These aircrafts are likely already in production, and I don't anticipate to run into any issues. But I'll say this as well, though.
Nobody has taken on more new aircraft than American Airlines in recent history. And we take that acceptance process very seriously, and we've done that for years. We have the teams of people in place to make sure that what comes onto Americans property is ready to go, ready to fly. And as I said before, we encourage Boeing to get their act together, get back on the right track.
So, Mary, thanks for the questions. Let me just start with this first. Administrator Whitaker, we have incredible confidence in. He's the right person for the job right now, and I'm very, very confident that he will hold all of us, but especially Boeing accountable for what they do. And to that end, I think that's the right approach. Look, aviation in the United States, aviation throughout the world, it's the safest form of transportation. We have a commitment to keep it that way, and Boeing has to be part of that equation.
We'll take -- look, we take the acquisition of new aircraft, bringing new aircraft down to American fleet very seriously, and we're going to make sure that whatever is purchased, whether it be from Airbus, Boeing, Embraer, you name it, that's something we take very seriously. And we're going to make sure that, that product is incredibly reliable, safe, right from the get go, right off the factory floor.
Hey, Leslie. Look, as I've said before, American Airlines has taken more new aircraft than anyone in, really, the history of commercial aviation over the last 10 years. And on that front, we've had to deal with quality issues that we've had to make sure that we were protected against. And so from that perspective, we have a very robust aircraft acceptance process with people that are dedicated to that. And we're going to make sure that whatever we take from any manufacturer, and especially Boeing, that we have the right resources to ensure that they meet our specifications and are ready to go when they come into our fleet. And I'll leave it at that.
Thanks, Latif. Look, 2023 was an exceptional year for us. It was another year of building back from the pandemic, and I'm really proud of what the team has done. They've established us as the industry leader in reliability. We've restored the airline to profitability. We produced record free cash flow last year. We've got another year of really making sure that we continue the progress. It's a year that we're still recovering from the pandemic, and we're going to have to see how demand and capacity all shakes out. But as I've said even earlier today, we expect demand to be very strong.
The spring and summer, I think, are going to be exceptional times for us in terms of demand for product. And as we look forward, I'm very interested in sitting down with folks and talking on March 4 at our Investor Day and talking about the future of American, building on that platform, showing how we have changed and that we have a mindset of producing for our customers, taking care of our team, and also making sure that we reward shareholders. More on that in the next month. And everybody, take care, and we'll talk soon.