Ron O_Hanley
Ron O'Hanley
State Street Corporation (STT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
So Brennan, there were 11 launched on the day that the -- or day after the SEC gave approval, and we actually service three of them. And I think we're the only ones that’s servicing across three different digital custodians. So we helped three of the major players make this happen. So we're quite active in the space. And as you'd expect, we do everything for each of those three except for the actual custody for the reasons that I think you know. So no, we're very active in the space. It was -- what did we learn? I mean it's early. What I think everybody is watching out for is there's a lot of players that went into the market, some of them with some existing high levels of assets. What will be interesting to see over time is, does it actually consolidate and how does it work in terms of who the buyers are institutional versus retail versus intermediary, but these are early days. And it was good to get the uncertainty cleared up and for all this to get launched, and we're keen to be part of it.
And just to clarify, I mean, I think everybody knows this. But I mean, right now, it's extremely difficult for a bank to do pure custody because of the capital requirements that are imposed on a bank. I mean it's basically 100% capital. So therefore, virtually everybody is working with some kind of digital custodian, a non-bank digital custodian, but all of the other parts of the ecosystem, which we're quite familiar with, we are participating in.
So there are a number of things going on there in the fourth quarter, Glenn, and throughout 2023. I think as we've noted and certainly, you all would have observed, there was -- it was most of the year with some episodic exceptions, it was a risk-off environment that changed in fourth quarter somewhat as predicted once investors got a sense of where interest rates were going, as they did when the Fed communicated in the third quarter more or less a pause. I think that started activity going. So much of the activity late in the year would have been the kind of classic risk on, let's put positions on quickly, benefiting the highly liquid SPDR Core SPY in the sector ETFs. But underlying it and throughout the year, the low cost ETFs, which represent different investors, these would be -- the ultimate holders here tend to be individuals. They're often advised by an intermediary like an RIA, so they’re -- it's very sticky. And we have continued to build share there, both in equity and fixed income, low cost. Across the board, fixed income is seeing a dramatic growth. I think there's increasing acceptance, both by retail investors and institutional investors that the ETF is a good vehicle to hold fixed income and you're just seeing that asset allocation moving that way.
And then finally, active ETFs of all sort, you're seeing growth in. And it's been a long time coming. As you know, it's been over a decade on how is this actually going to play out. And it's ironic how it's playing out and that everybody is just taking their standard investment strategy and putting it in active ETF. We benefit from some of that on the GA side in terms of what they're doing in fixed income, but we benefit from it greatly on the servicing side, because we're very, very -- not to overuse the word, active in the active ETF servicing space. And we believe you'll see a lot more growth there as core funds and core offerings of well known asset managers either get converted to ETFs or launched as ETFs. So we're really pleased on the GA side. In terms of what drove it, I think it was the next part of your question. I mean, part of it was much more focused and resources dedicated to the various intermediary channels. I mean our roots are in the institutional channels, but the lots of the growth is in the intermediary channel. So that's part of it. And then as we talked about, I believe, last quarter, we took a hard look at pricing, particularly in the so called low cost ETFs and recognizing their durability, felt that it was worth the investment to reprice them to continue to gain market share because they tend to be very, very sticky.
No, no, it's both. To answer the last part of it first, Glenn, it's certainly not one client. I mean, this is a space that we've invested in and we're well known in. And we see a secular trend here where it's -- so many of these operations are held inside firms are highly bespoke often sitting in very expensive locations. And as the product sets have become more complicated, I mean, it's following a path that the active long only industry followed 10, 15 years ago. It was fine to do all this stuff inside when it was just a couple of products that are fairly straightforward, that's not what's happening now, products are more complicated. As you start to think about the structures that enable high net worth individuals to participate in it, you've got that added complexity. And then oftentimes, there's side investments that are permitted, et cetera. So it's very complicated. It lends itself to outsourcing. It's still very much an in-sourced business. So we see lots of potential growth in it. Its fee characteristics are different, positive in the sense that the fees are higher, but also the fees get fully recognized when the fund is fully invested. So part that we pay a lot of attention to is what's the expected actual, one, money raised and then draw down and how do we do our best to match our expenses to that. But we're very excited about the business. Much of the new investment, product investments that Eric talked about in the 2024 guide includes further strengthening of our position there. There's innovation in there and our goal is to continue to set moats around us so we can continue to excel at it.
Yes, as well as, Glenn, it's not just private equity, it's private equity -- private credit is booming. And for every bank that complaints about what's going to happen with regulation and the fact that it's pushing activity out of the banking system that's going right into the private credit area, and we should be the beneficiary of that growth.
I would say that the capacity constraint has been particularly with these large complicated client, the really large ones, some of which are -- well, most of which are still being onboarded, the capacity strength has been around onboarding. Over past year, in particular, we've gotten better at that. You can -- if you just look at that number, we were roughly at about, as I recall, $3.6 trillion in assets to be onboarded and we're now down to $2.3 trillion. So you can see we're getting better at that. The real constraint to be specific about it tends to be and how quickly do you onboard the middle office element to that, because that often requires engineering and by that I mean, engineering with the client, because ultimately that's a client and it's like any other kind of industrial outsourcing. A client has an operation, those things in a particular way wants to outsource that element of it to us. We're not interested in taking somebody's mess for less. I mean, we need to actually work with them to engineer it in a way where as much of it as possible is standardized and that the customization is limited to the extensive user interfaces or how things are actually applied. And we've just gotten better at that over time. So I would say, looking forward, we don't see that as being a meaningful constraint.
I mean, it's no one thing, but a lot of really important things across the board to ramp up our execution. Where we're seeing it, to answer the first part of your question, is the core Investment Managers segment still remains strong and active for us. And as some of those firms are facing the same kind of market that everybody else is, they're more interested in actually trying to do more with us and do different things with us, a little bit of a resurgence in the asset owner marketplace and in particular, amongst asset owners that aren't just pure asset allocators, meaning they're managing some assets themselves or truly actively asset allocating, doing not just listening to a consultant telling them what to do, but either managing money or at a strategic and tactical level, allocating assets, which again requires support. But in all cases, what we're doing is we're really focused on ensuring that the back office part of all this comes with it, and comes with it in a timely fashion, right? Because as I was saying earlier when I was talking to Gerard, the thing that takes a long time or a longer time to onboard would be the middle office, the outsourcing element of it. Onboarding back office is pretty easy, pretty straightforward. And it, in almost all instances, comes down in a pretty healthy incremental margin given the scale activities to it.
And then finally, just to talk about regions. We have invested heavily in the capabilities in all of our regions where you see probably the most impact from that over the last couple of years, has been just the very good growth that we're seeing in Asia Pacific and really, all parts of Asia Pacific from Australia north to Japan and everything in between. The US, we've talked about in the past, we were not pleased with where we were in this past year, particularly the second half of the year. We're actually reasonably pleased with how we've done. Europe has always been strong to us. It was a little softer in 2023, but again, a very strong pipeline. But that regional focus where we're actually pushing accountability down into the country and regional level and making sure that it's very clear who is responsible for what, sharing, obviously, not just the technology and the product but the best practices in how you move these things forward, but very much decentralizing the accountability.
Mike, it's a good question and one we think about all the time. So part of way we've attracted more money market funds going back to one of my prior answers is we just have a broader client base, and that helps. We've gained market share, not just in terms of assets, but we've just attracted more clients. And once you have them, whether the balances go up or down, typically you have them. I think historically, what's happened in terms -- and you've got to look back in history now, because we haven't had this kind of a marketplace. But the really sophisticated holders of institutional money market funds tend to hang on, because the fund itself, depending on its duration, and there is a little bit of duration in it, actually lags. So it's usually the opposite -- when rates are rising, the very sophisticated holders are toggling in and out depending on whether they see opportunities to go direct. Just given the nature of our client base, we don't see a lot of that activity. So we expect to keep them and it really will be around where do their balances go and do they need it for some other reasons, or do they see more attractive investment opportunities. I would expect that we would see, if indeed, we see a continued risk on environment that itself will cause a little bit of reallocation of institutional money market funds, because saying that everybody -- what everybody is talking about that there's so much parked on the sidelines while a lot of it is parked here. But I would go back to where I began the answer, which is it really is about establishing more client relationships, servicing them very well and then continue to grow the number of clients based on that track record.
Mike, maybe I'll start on the Basel III. I think where Basel III comes out is very uncertain at this point. The comment period ended January 16th. I don't know how many millions of pages were submitted, but there's a lot to be evaluated there. And you all know the various pressure and response that the regulators are getting on this. So it's very hard to tell. I don't know that we would have changed the authorization if we had perfect clarity on where it was coming out, it was a factor, but it's not like we have -- we think it's absolutely going to be this and therefore. So I hope that helps.
Rob, why don't I start on that. We feel like we've done a very good job this year in terms of -- in 2023, focusing on BAU cost reduction to help finance and create a very sizable investment pool. Eric walked you through that. So obviously, if fees are up dramatically more than expected, there are some revenue related expenses. But I wouldn't foresee -- I think we've got a lot to invest and execute against and I really won't want to get through that. On the margin, there might be a few things that we would do, but the vast majority of it will go to the bottom line. the case of the -- if the opposite occurs, whatever, a terrible market, geopolitical issues, flare and you've just got a very different environment than any one of us anticipate. Again, we'd probably -- you'd see some revenue related expenses come down naturally, which would help. I think at least my initial instinct would be to try and preserve the investments and look at is there any more to do on BAU, but then obviously, some of these -- we've got a pecking order for our investments in terms of priorities. And if it came to that, we’d defer them.
From the FDIC, I didn't see this, Rob. Curious as to the FDIC's role in index funds. I wonder what Vanguard has to say about that. So I'm just not familiar with it, Rob.
Yes, it could be, Rob, that GA is already on this. I just haven't seen that.
Well, thank you everybody for joining the call.