Steve Cahillane
Steve Cahillane
Kellanova (K) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Peter, he didn't survive the bowl game, in case you weren't watching.
Yes. It’s going to – Rob, thanks for the question. It’s going to be throughout the year. Really, we started with displays coming back to prior years, better than prior year in the fourth quarter. In the first quarter, we’re going to see the quality of those displays improving. That will continue into the second quarter as well.
And just to remind you, 2023 was a year of pullback on innovation, culling of SKUs, clearly focused on supply and making sure that we could have that supply in the market. In the U.S., though, for example, we’ve got Pringles Harvest Blends, which we brought in the second half of 2023. We’ve got Cheez-It innovations, Cheez-It Crunchy, which is hitting now. We’ve got Pop-Tarts crunchy poppers. We’ve got innovations around Nutri-Grain. We’ve got a Rice Krispies Treats with peanut butter.
We’ve just got many more innovations than we’ve had in prior years, and that will roll throughout the year. We’ve also got distribution growing where it had been declining. So you should see momentum growing really starting now and picking up all through the year. And that gives us really good confidence in the top-line guide that we gave.
The other thing I’d add, Rob, is a higher brand building investment as well, which we phased into the first half of this year as well to really drive that quality to display and that quality merchandising.
There’s not really an inflection point per se. I think you’re going to see a cumulative improvement with probably the third quarter being the one where it be most notable and then we’ll exit the year with lots of momentum. So it will be cumulative throughout the year and growing from the second into the third quarter.
Yes, that’s right, because I mean, the comparisons are going to be against the year where we really didn’t innovate and now we’re getting back to kind of pre-COVID levels of innovation.
Yes. So you’re probably asking about the U.S., the frequency of promotions continues to return to pre-pandemic levels, so 2019 levels. The depth of those promotions is really kind of back to approaching those levels off a higher base. And so I’d say the whole market is pretty benign and stable. You don’t see – I’ve heard some of the noise around because volumes are down, is there going to be high levels of discounting and increased frequency of promotion. We’re not really seeing that. For us, we’re getting – we’re trying to get back to the pre-2019 levels, as I’ve mentioned a couple of times now in terms of frequency to drive quality promotional displays. But not seeing anything other than that really.
There’s a little bit of that, but really it’s more. If you think about what we’ve been through as an industry focused on supply, focused on getting through the pandemic, focused on bottlenecks and shortages, the ability to really dedicate resources towards effectiveness programs and efficiency programs like this was challenging. And so we’re through that right now, and we see good opportunities in the frozen business. So we’ll be closing a plant and moving production to our more efficient plants in the UK, subject to consultation.
We’ve got our Manchester plant, which is a very large plant, which is underutilized. We can move that production into two facilities. So straightforward programs in terms of the type of efficiencies they’ll drive. We’re confident that they’re terrific programs. But it’s really a matter of having the bandwidth pre or post pandemic, post bottlenecks and shortages that will allow us to ongoing look for programs like this to continue to drive effectiveness and efficiency.
Yes, Rob. We get asked a lot, why is Cheez-It primarily a U.S. brand? Why not expand it 10 years ago? And I think that’s a fair question. The company was very busy expanding Pringles around the world. And you see, obviously now it’s a global brand growing all around the world, recognized everywhere. And that’s the long-term ambition for something like Cheez-It, which is the next out of the gate.
But you start with Cheese [ph]. And we launched in Canada, we launched in Brazil and Mexico, and this year, the back half of the year, we’ll be launching in major markets in Europe. And so it’s a long-term play. It’s in our guidance, it’s not really – it’s not going to be a material driver of top line. But five years from now, it’s going to be a much bigger brand internationally than it is today. And that’s really the plan. We learned from the Canada launch. We applied those learnings to Brazil, then to Mexico, and we’ve got a terrific plan for the back half of the year in Europe.
And so it’s a long-term play. Then you look at the rest of our portfolio. Rice Krispies Treats is already a multi-country brand, growing nicely in Europe, growing nicely in Australia and New Zealand. You look at Pop-Tarts, there’s potentially room for that to be an international brand down the road. So we look at our portfolio, we like what we see in terms of international expansion, but we’re going to do it in a very prudent and pragmatic and practical way to drive long-term growth.