Rodney McMullen
Rodney McMullen
The Kroger Co. (KR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Great question, Simeon, and I'll start and Todd add anything you want to add. But as Todd mentioned in the prepared remarks, we expect the first quarter to be a tougher quarter as we're cycling ESI and SNAP, and we would expect as you go through the year, that our market position, market share would continue to improve throughout the year, both from cycling and from the comment that I shared that we expect to open incremental stores and more stores in '24 than we did in '23 or in fact, several of the past years. And it's really all of those things together. Todd, anything you want to add?
Yes, that's a great point. And we've seen improvements in tonnage and in dollars, both sequentially on trends, and we would expect that to continue.
If you look from a media standpoint, we're really competing against Google and Facebook and other channels. And everything that we can see that, those dollars are coming from other channels or even traditional media channels. And we tell our CPGs, we have to earn our right for you to want to spend media money with us because it doesn't do us any good if you just take trade dollars and move them over. So that's something we've been aggressive in terms of communicating with CPG since day one, and it's really important.
If you look at trade support, we actually saw a pickup in trade support. And it's more around some of the CPGs are starting to focus more on tonnage growth than what they have in the last several quarters. And the trade dollars are really trying to support tonnage growth for certain CPGs, but not all.
Yes. In terms of where we're seeing the growth, our loyal household continued to grow and it's several quarters in a row. They are starting to shop with us more frequently as well. So it's really both of those together. The food away-from-home to me is -- if you ask me, what's one of our biggest opportunities? Seamless is obviously one of them. But one of them would be food away-from-home. Our market share there is very low. And our deli and bakery team are doing some incredible work and incredible work partnering with a couple of outside companies really focused on making it a destination. One of the things that we recently did was reformulate our fried chicken and the customers are telling us they really like it. So when we look at food away-from-home, we think we’re just scratching the surface, and we think that’s really a huge growth opportunity. But the growth is really coming from frequency and our loyal shoppers.
Yes. Thanks, Michael, and great seeing you a couple of weeks ago as well, and you did a great job. Touring, when you look at -- it really ties back to capital. And it's kind of, I call it, bifurcation because we continue to run our business just like we would run our business without the merger. And we're finding good growth opportunities in certain markets where we have a strong ROIC and there's good population growth. And it's something that we feel comfortable doing with or without the merger. So it's really strong from a both perspective. And we have good, strong, obviously, cash flow to be able to fund it as well.
And Todd's last point, that's really how we fund. As Todd mentioned, we've increased average hourly rate by over 30% over the last 5 years. And the way we've funded that, that's been in excess of our sales growth and the way we funded that is through the cost saves, and its process change. It's using less energy. It's a whole host of hundreds of different things that our teams are doing, and we would have the same type of commitment expectation of ourselves that we can do the same thing again in 2024 as well.
Yes. It's a mixture of both. And as I mentioned earlier, we did see an increase in trade dollars, but we would also take some of the savings and some people would call it a productivity loop. But if you look at the cost saves that we're able to achieve, the leverage we get from sales growth and some of those things, we would also be investing in lower pricing.
If you look at overall, when you look at the way somebody shops, obviously, we go to market as a promotional merchant and customers when things are on promotion, they buy more of it. So when you look at the total mix price and you include our rewards, we're exactly where we are satisfied and like to be and the customer is getting incredible value and many of our customers feel like they actually get a better value than some of our competitors, and they don't have to compromise on experience, both in terms of people experience and fresh experience.
On personalization, it really is being able to identify what's important to each of us individually and doing specific offers where something that matters to me is going to be different than what matters to everyone else. And almost every household that shops with us gets a unique offer. It would be highly unusual for somebody to actually get the same offers.
John, it's a great question. As you know, because we've been -- you've followed us a long time, and we've always told everybody job one is to make sure we don't lose the digital customer and job two is our responsibility to figure out how to make sure that customer is profitable. I would say that we continue to make meaningful progress, but it's a meaningful tailwind that should be with us for several years. And when I say several years, I'm talking three to five years.
If you look at the in-store digital business, we have a pathway to get to where the margins are the same there is shopping in store. If you look at our sheds, we believe that maturity shed margin will actually be better than a store because of the media and other pieces. If you think of a baseball game, we're still in a very early inning of this journey. And we're incredibly excited about the customer's reaction from a Net Promoter Score. And in fact, our sheds had the highest net promoter score that they've ever had this quarter. And the repeat rates and all those things continue to improve. But we're early in the game on something that's going to be a tailwind for a long time, and we're still learning how from a profitability standpoint, how to make it a meaningful contributor. So excited, but we still have a long way to go.
If you look at cost reductions or whatever because it's a whole host of things. Our internal target would be around $1 billion again, and this would be the seventh year for that. If you look at all profit at this point, $100 million would be a good number. But obviously, we're going to work really hard to make it a little bit better than that. But the media business, we think, will be a meaningful driver of that. KPF, we think there's a lot of opportunity. But right now, the consumer sentiment is improving. So hopefully, that starts showing up in bad debt and other things, so that becomes a tailwind as opposed to neutral.
If you look at leverage point, this won't be true forever, but right now, we're having a leverage point lower because if you look at the softness in identicals, a lot of that is driven by things that were low margin. So our ESI business was something that actually was a negative on profitability. So by not having that, it actually supports improving profitability. If you look at hour -- I mean we use AI in every department and every store has generated the hours to support the business is generated by the number of units. And I feel very good that we'll be able to continue to provide great service to our customers.
The other thing that helps us is you're always figuring out new ways of doing something to reduce how many hours it takes to do it. So if you think about picking a pickup order, the walk time continually gets reduced because we're able to identify every individual store where every item is on what shelf and it reduces the time to pick an order as an example. So all of those things together, we feel really good about leverage points relative to where we are on IDs. Now, that's not going to last forever. But certainly, if you look at 2024, we feel good about where we are.
Pharmacy margins. We would view margins probably pretty stable. We continue to identify ways to improve service, and we invest most of that savings that we get in reducing wait time for customers and other aspects because what our customers or patients are telling us when you look at our principal competitors, they're continuing in close locations. They're continuing to pull out in certain markets, and we view that as an opportunity. So we're reinvesting in that business and our pharmacy team or health awareness team is doing a great job of really working with the whole team to be able to support our patients. And the thing that's always -- I always find amazing is about a third of our customers don't even realize we have a pharmacy, and we've been in the business for, I don't know, at least 30 years. And we continue to see where we have opportunity to gain share in that business, and we'll do that.
We would expect unit volumes to be positive. And we expect ourselves holding ourselves accountable for positive unit volume. Todd and I mentioned in our prepared remarks, we've seen sequential positive trends in units. If you look at trade dollars, as I mentioned earlier on one of the questions, we actually saw an increase in trade dollars to support. Now, our success has been much better with the mainstream and upscale customer, and we've continued to gain share with that customer. And one of the things that's always important to remember on units and economists always say all short answers are wrong.
But that customer buys a bigger pack of items. So on that perspective, units are down because somebody buys a 30-pack or 36-pack of something. If you look at the customers that are under a lot of budget pressure, they're actually buying smaller units pack of goods and stuff. So overall, it's a great question. We would hold ourselves accountable for continuing to improve trends in units and getting to positive as well.
Yes. And we’ll use that free cash flow to continue to support growth. Thanks, Ed.
We would expect it to stay pretty similar. And probably for us, more and more of our promotions would be done directly to a customer, so it's not necessarily what shows up in an ad. But we would expect overall to be pretty similar to what it was last year. And I mentioned it a couple of times, but customers that are on a budget or strained financially, continue to aggressively try to look at ways to stretch their budgets. And one of the ways they're doing that is downloading digital coupons. And to me, in our prepared remarks, we shared that we had people download 4 billion coupons, and that was an increase of $1 billion over the prior year. And the customer on a budget would be a bigger driver of that increase in downloading coupons. So overall, we think about the same. But if you look at within segments, we would expect that customer on a budget to still be under strain.
I wouldn’t say a ton of stuff. The people that aren’t under pressure, they continue to buy nicer wine and engage in Starbucks and Murray’s cheese and things like that. But the work they tell us they’re feeling better more so than their behavior is changing so far.
For somebody else's profit margin. But we're always open to those conversations. And would be delighted to fill those scripts, assuming that they had the appropriate margins in it to cover our costs. And hopefully, over time, their customers or patients will keep -- start reaching out because they want to have the great service that we're providing to everyone else and their customers not getting the opportunity to engage and get that great customer experience.
Not. It's slightly better, but we still have a lot of work to do. And one of the things that half full and half empty, the half full is that our customers that are most profitable for us is our mainstream and upscale customer, but we’re not satisfied with where we are.
I will talk broad and then I'll let Todd get into the specifics. When you look at media overall, we see no reason why our share of CPGs media spend should be the same as what our share of the products we sell. And it's our responsibility to make sure that the way we help them spend their money that they get a great ROI on that investment. And our KPM team holds themselves accountable to be transparent and making sure that people get a good return on their investment. And we will continue to do that. So we think the opportunity is still huge in terms of continued growth. Relative to specifics for '24 and other things, Todd, I'll let you answer that.
Thanks, Kelly. And thank you for all the questions today. As always, I'd like to share a few comments with our associates that are listening in, and we always have a lot of associates listening each quarter. First, thank you for all you do every day for our customers and each other. I'd also like to take a moment to celebrate two of our outstanding associates in Colorado. Just this week, Chris Gay from Citi market who won two gold medals in skiing during the Special Olympics event at Copper Island, the Copper Mountain.
Chris is an amazing athlete, taking second place in an Olympics event in Aspen just last month. A few months ago, I had the pleasure to meet Jeff Gregory, a special Olympian at King Supers. Last year, Jeff was honored as Male Athlete of the Year. And I had a chance to meet Jeff and his parents and what an inspiration. Congratulations, Chris and Jeff. We are so proud of all you do and what you continue to accomplish and all that you’ve done for our customers and communities and uplifting those around you. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today, and have a great day.