Daryl Kenningham
Daryl Kenningham
Group 1 Automotive, Inc. (GPI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
I think to answer your last question first, John, this is Daryl, by the way. Yes, we will see improvement in Q1 and then hopefully, it's behind us in Q2. I think, there are a few things that drove, the issues in the U.K. in the quarter. The used car market is very challenging, saw a couple of warnings from some of the used car retailers in the U.K. during the quarter.
And I think, the process that we had in place, which we have since changed, and gone to a more centralized process of valuation and pricing, that wasn't really conducive to a really dynamic market, just to be totally candid with you. So, we've centralized that with a team of experts and better visibility, and transparency and more accountable decision-making, and we believe that will show immediate benefits. So those were - that's my take on what the issues were on used cars.
Mood's good. Traffic counts are good. We were really pleased with our growth in the quarter, especially a new vehicle. 14% same-store growth outpaced the industry. And we were encouraged. Inventories, while they're returning, the day supply is manageable. So the demand is soaking up that additional production. And we were ecstatic, especially with the last few days of December.
I mean, really just some really record days that were really good to see. And so to me, that portends good things for 2024. The margins have come down about what we expected, about $100 a month, and that's kind of where they continue to trend. And you see some changes between franchises a bit. But generally, it's as predicted, and I would say demand looks good.
Sure thing, Adam. This is Daryl, and I'll encourage Daniel to chime in as well. To answer your question on hybrids, hybrids are fabulous. And I use Toyota as an example. One of the hottest vehicles we have anywhere in our dealerships is a Toyota Sienna. It's an all-hybrid power plant. And believe it or not, a minivan being one of the hottest vehicles we've got.
The new Camry is coming out with an all-hybrid powertrain, which I think is an indication of what it is. The General Motors announced new plug-in hybrids coming to the country soon. They announced that yesterday, I believe. So hybrid demand is really good. And across - the brands that we have, and that's what we see. EV, we see softening in EV. We do see some moderation in the production levels. But we do definitely see softening, especially in the U.K.
And - that's what drove some of the new car issues, for us around London in December, in the fourth quarter was that - this is, not the much softer U.K. demand on EVs. And in the U.S., I don't know that I'm going to give you any perspective that, you don't already have on it, but definitely a softening. We see pressure on gross margins on EVs that, we certainly don't see on hybrids, or ICE vehicles in the U.S.
One of the things that's, I think important to think about is for us, we focus heavily on customer pay, which was up 7%, which you're right, Rajat, that's not normally, we normally double-digit increases. We're lapping two really good fourth quarters. Last year, we were up 13%. Year before that, we were up 22%. And so, we are seeing our customer counts aren't growing as much, and that's something that, we're focused on now.
And what we saw after COVID, one trend that we have really seen, is our Saturday business. After COVID, the Saturday business didn't come back as quickly as the rest of our business. And we're really trying to put a lot more focus and attention on our service departments are open all day Saturday, which is fairly unique in the industry. You don't see that, in a lot of dealerships.
And so, we're putting a lot more focus and emphasis on that with our customers. Then later in the quarter, we started to see that volume, really increase on Saturdays, which I expect we'll see that continue through the quarter, through the year, I'm sorry.
Not that we could discern. There was a few parts, things for us, but the strike itself, honestly, I wish I could blame something on that, but I don't. We didn't see any material impact, other than a few parts delays here and there.
Yes. We're addressing the headcount honestly, David, because our headcount crept up last year - over the last couple of years actually in the U.K. It got beyond the level that we were comfortable with. And given the challenge in the fourth quarter in the used vehicles and some other areas, we felt like it was the right thing to do.
We've had better discipline in the U.S. on that than we have in the U.K. And so, it wasn't necessarily related specifically to used cars. It was just a general overall resource allocation.
We've looked at a couple of them over the last couple of years. It's really hard to get into pencil. I think that maths is getting harder.
So, I'll take the first part of that question, Daniel here. Daniel, regarding the absolute dollar number that we would expect to take guide in terms of headcount, that's somewhere between $8 million and $10 million. And the other thing that, we're laser focused on, is our loaner car fleet, demonstrator fleet, because clearly they're taking and big drops in valuation at the moment. We see that being somewhere around a $3 million saving.
Daniel on - a little more on the headcount. We're still down versus 2019 in the U.S. on headcount on a same-store basis, down quite a bit, 7%. So, in the U.K., we were not. We were heavier in the U.K. on a relative basis versus 2019 on a same-store. So, we had opportunity in the U.K. Would that ever hit us in the U.S.? Well who knows? I mean, it depends on what business conditions do. We've done a better job in our U.S. business managing the headcount than we have in the U.K.
Well, we didn't keep up with the new car industry in the fourth quarter in the U.K. And we built inventory on the new car side, even though we still have a fairly robust order bank. And we have to do a better job, with our throughput of our inventory. That's one of the reasons that we've taken a hard look at how we're marketing. Are we driving the right traffic? Are we focused on the right vehicles and the right brands?
And so, that's part of our actions that we're taking in the U.K., because honestly, while we over performed in the U.S. on exactly that metric, we underperformed in the U.K. on exactly that thing. So, we have some work to do around driving more customer demand to our store.
I guess the answer to all of that is yes, Rajat. We saw, there was nothing that really stood out as one brand going completely different way than every other brand. But we saw we're down $1,212 year-over-year in PRUs on the new car side. So - and that trend has seemed to just continue, since we've come out of COVID.
And so, we're still seeing that. It's generally across the board on the brands with Stellantis, we're heavy in inventory there. So, there's a little pressure on that, obviously. But, we're only 4% mix of Stellantis. So, hopefully, that won't hurt us too bad.