Jon Vander Ark
Jon Vander Ark
Republic Services, Inc. (RSG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure. Yes. Team had a really strong fourth quarter. Lots of things went in our favor, managed the middle of the P&L well. There were some one-time opportunities both on MSW and a very strong special waste fourth quarter.
On that, that we felt good with, weather was actually very positive in the fourth quarter, which has slipped here in the first quarter of the year. So I feel great about that. And then, we've got a lot of momentum headed into 2023.
Some of the event-based work, you can't build a budget against that, right? You've got to look at that as a potential upside, which we're going to go after those opportunities. But oftentimes, an election year, some of those jobs end up pushing and rolling forward. So we're not going to build a plan based on that outsized performance that we got in Q4, but still looking at a very positive year in 2024.
Yes. Most of the flatness is based on the comp. We had a really, really strong Q4 and 2022 that we were covering. Look, there is some slowdown in parts of that business, so rig counts are down, and that part of the opportunity in there.
We've had a facility that we shut down to turnaround that we're going to reopen here in the middle of the year. So, that will provide some incremental lift, and that was closed in the fourth quarter. And then we continue to -- we'll trade price over volume where we need to. So, we've turned out some less profitable customers on that and feel really good about the book and the pipeline going forward.
Yes, we're always purposeful in trading our price versus volume. I'd say in this quarter, there was a couple of contracts that went out to bid that we did -- a rate that we thought was going to cover our costs and give us a fair return. We lost those opportunities.
And then in previous quarters, we've had some nice wins, right? And these things come in fits and spurts. So, we didn't have anything in that quarter. That's really the combination of those two things drives the volume picture.
On the pricing side, this is the manifestation of high CPI and the alternative indices over the last couple of years really flowing through our pricing, which is great to see. That's challenged part of the yield story historically and to see that number we were really pleased with.
Great. Thanks.
And we had weather, right? We had mild weather in Q4 of last year. We had pretty intense weather in January, where we've lost some certainly some haulage and some tons. Some of that will come back, but some of that will get pushed out through the remainder of the year. So that's what will lead to Q4 number that probably looks -- our Q1 number, that product is more flat than historically might have.
Yes, we look at two things. Obviously, the strategic fit and the financial return on any type of deal, and we're going to stay disciplined on both of those things. Are we the natural owner? And does it meet our expectation in terms of cash and cash returns. And then we do think about our ability to absorb it unless we have a lot of capacity across the enterprise.
We wouldn't necessarily do a couple of big deals in the in the same part of the country at the same time because the local team does play a pretty strong role in that day-to-day integration activity.
Last year was the product of our normal tuck-ins, which we've done forever, and those are very value creating. It's hard to do those deals poorly because we've done it for so long.
And then some nice kind of medium-sized deals. we build a plan, right, anticipated what those medium-sized dealers are going to be there, not that we're not pursuing it, but you just don't know when they're going to move or when they're going to come.
So, that's predicated on step down in our expectation this year for what we’ve done. It's not because the pipeline is weaker -- pipeline is strong, but we never know exactly what we're going to close, and we're going to stay disciplined.
Yes. We're very satisfied with both the execution and the return. We're pretty conservative in terms of our financial modeling leaving ourselves room and we feel very good about the demand in the marketplace, we could have sold out Las Vegas five times over upfront.
And the pricing expectations are ahead of what we modeled. So the returns are going to come in, again, ahead of our expectations on that front. And that's certainly given us confidence as we talked about in the prepared remarks to go to Indy, and then we're planning on at least two more across the country.
Thanks for taking my question. Maybe just a quick one on pricing. Could you just remind us how the restricted book will layer through 2024especially with sort of the lag effects in CPI? Thanks.
Sure. Yes, we rolled out some new technology around AI, which helps us spot contamination and also helps us assess overages when the containers are overfilled. And that certainly contributed to the small container performance.
Again, underlying pricing was great, but that put it on top. And that's why we talked about our 2024 number. We expect to anniversary that in the second half of the year, so that will come down a bit.
Yes. It's really the RISE platform. Think about digitizing our operations from our logistic operation all the way through our fleet and how our drivers operate every day. But this brings this to the maintenance shop.
And so, now rather than moving paper around, right, when the driver does their vehicle condition report before they take off in the morning that digitally flows and is recorded into the maintenance organization. So they're dealing with tablets as well. So they're getting out of the paper-based business.
And a big driver of that is the productivity benefit to that for sure, but then there's also the warranty recovery element of that. Because when you're chasing paper that becomes a very manual process, when you could do this digitally, it allows you to quickly understand but warranty is available? Are you fully claiming all the parts that are warranty eligible and allowing us to get full recovery?
Correct.
Hi, Stephanie.
Yes, I think the picture is mixed. So again, we're planning on having a strong year. If you think about the direct things, we talked about weather, certainly housing, interest rates being high, mortgage rates being high, housing activity is certainly a byproduct or depressed housing activity as a byproduct to that.
So, we would have hoped for a quicker recovery there, both for our business and because we need more homes in the United States, but we think that will be more delayed towards the later end of the year. So we're not planning a robust recovery on that front.
And then if you think about the other macros, the manufacturing, I think, is a mixed picture. We see pockets where while we're winning business, there's some service declines in certain subsectors of manufacturing, but other places in terms of remediation projects and other things have been very, very strong. PFAS is a nice contributor to the business in 2023, and we've got a good pipeline in 2024.
And then the macro have two wars going on, right, one in Israel, one in the doorstep of Europe. Credit card debt is high with consumers. So we have a cautious kind of macro perspective on that but the underlying demand signals for our business are largely positive.
Yes, certainly stepping down operating labor, clearly stepping down year-over-year. Transportation is stepping down. Maintenance has been a little bit stickier and most of that is the fact that we're growing and we're driving a fleet that's aging just because the supply chain is still a little congested and we're not getting all the trucks that we wanted. And it's really been a three-year phenomenon in that front.
So, we're going to catch up some in this year, but we're not going to fully catch up on that. And all that is when you're driving a 12, 13-year-old truck, right, with a kind of a peak cycle in terms of its maintenance versus a new truck that has relatively high warranty recovery, and so therefore, very low maintenance cost, that's going to show up in the underlying maintenance bucket. So that spend will be, we think, elevated throughout the year. We hope we do a little better, but we'll speak.
Sure. We mentioned in the prepared remarks that -- we right now, we'll have a $50 million to that this year. We'll be at several hundred next year and climbing our path, that's going to start in residential, and then it will move into small container overtime.
And we've got a really thoughtful strategy in terms of how we roll that out. I mentioned the infrastructure side of that as well it's not just a truck, right? It's a system. So you need to understand the infrastructure. You need to understand the incentives. You need to understand the customer or willingness to pay for the vehicle.
And if we feel the trucks that we've had delivered out of our partnership with OshKosh, those trucks are working very, very well. So we're excited to see the next 50 come into the fleet.
No, I mentioned the housing piece, large-container temp. That's been certainly soft, as we're not putting up as many new houses as we need and even for Movement, People are kind of keeping their existing mortgage rates and are reluctant to move.
And oftentimes, we see move we see remodeling activity or other ancillary opportunities and large container temp, and that's been muted. We don't think that will last forever here, but we're planning on a relatively benign year this year, looking to 2025 to see that accelerate.
Yes. We think we've got a very compelling offering for customers in an end-to-end solution. So we can hand all the way from the assessment to the frontline remediation doing our field service work and then a range of disposal options on the back end, whether that's into hazardous landfill, whether that's in deep well, some of that waste can be profiled and then put into a solid waste landfill as well, and you're seeing some of that flow through our special ways. So that's measured in the tens of millions.
If you look at last year -- this year, it will be the high end of tens of millions or potentially tipping into a nine-digit number in terms of revenue. So this is a real growth opportunity for us.
And this is all mostly people self-selecting in advance of the EPA regulations coming down as well as some of the Department of Defense work that's been accelerated on that front. So we feel like our national footprint positions us well to -- in our strategic accounts organization positions us very well to serve customers on this issue.
Yes. The supply chain is -- again, we're probably getting about 80% of the trucks we want over the last couple of years. And that includes the rollover from the previous year, right? So we're not continuing to fall way behind, but we haven't fully caught up yet either.
But keep in mind, we've grown a lot. We're coming off our third straight year of double-digit revenue growth on that. So as we grow and do these acquisitions, that creates more demand and need for new trucks. So we see that slightly improving. I think we'll get -- we'll sort and that we'll shrink that gap as we exit 2024. I don't expect that we'll close that gap until 2025 on that front
And then the EV specifically, the McNeilus truck is the first purpose-built refuse truck ever and it's electrified. And that truck is driving a full route. Most of the other EVs that we've piloted that you spend the first 60 days with a lot of software issues that you're working through, we've been really, really surprised by the performance level and the uptime of this vehicle. Working through some bugs. We're still in a test and learn environment but really promising in terms of what this is going to be able to do to operate at scale with EV.
Thank you, Debbie. I would like to recognize and thank our more than 40,000 employees for their great work and commitment to serving our customers. Their efforts enabled our strong 2023 results and the continued growth of our company. Have a good evening and be safe.