Ed Bastian
Ed Bastian
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, I’ll start and Glen can add his color as well. We are seeing continued improvement in the corporate sector, and we had a number of laggards, tech being by far the largest in terms of that had essentially not returned to travel. And we’re finally starting to see tech companies traveling again and again I think a lot of it is the return to office that is driving some of that. The consultancies as well, which have also been laggards again, given their clients have had their offices somewhat reduced, office hours opening is helping there, and we’ve seen it across the board.
The other thing I mentioned this morning also is the auto and entertainment sectors have rebounded nicely. Entertainment clearly and the auto is starting to rebound following the strikes in the fourth quarter.
Absolutely. I think we’ve disclosed this previously, is that we’ve seen the seasons elongate for leisure travel to Europe really March through October now is pretty strong. Of course, the shoulder is still not as strong as the peak summer. But in response to that, and again, this is part of our optimization of how we fly is tailoring our capacity to when demand actually exists.
Thank you.
Sure. Thanks, Jamie. I get the question. I think the level of volatility that we see is what causes us to be a bit cautious and prudent in giving that $6 to $7 EPS guide in 2024. We’ve been signaling that a bit for the last six months, and that’s where we sit today. I have great confidence in us hitting that guide, which is what I think the Street wants to know, where our confidence level is.
There are a bunch of macros that we look at into the year, which we’ll have to see how they play out. Clearly, the geopolitical front continues to be quite testy, including the fact that this is a political election season, not just in the U.S., but around the world. Energy prices, we saw this morning just how volatile energy prices are. And to me, the supply chain both the cost and the constraints that we see in this industry continue unabated.
We’re not making nearly the progress on the supply chain improvements if anything. Every news we get seems to be a bit worse, not better. So that constrains growth and increased cost. That all said, my internal stretch for myself and our team is to still get to that $7 number this year. I think we have a possibility to get there, but I also think that the macro weighs on that assessment. And I think to be prudent, we should set expectations maybe a little bit lower and hope to overachieve just by the way we did in 2023. We gave a $5 to $6 guide and came in on the top end. And I’d like to see a year from now that we’re reporting that same type of result.
Okay. Thank you.
Well, I think we’re expecting domestic to continue to improve, the comps gets easier as we move through the year. So we should see some nice momentum there. We had a fantastic year in the Transatlantic. We’re hoping to beat that, but there’s a really high bar as we move through the year. What we have on the books today is really pretty exciting for the month of April, where we have about 40% of our Transatlantic bookings in place.
We have unit revenue sitting at high-single digits up, which I think most people wouldn’t expect. Of course, we have a lot of booking to go there, but the early returns for spring and summer are very favorable as we sit today. Pacific, where we have an incredible amount of capacity, it’s being absorbed nicely, and we expect that to inflect into a positive territory as those growth rates come down, we move through the year.
And last but not least, Latin, and our ambitious build of South America with our partners LATAM is paying very good strong dividends. We’re improving our profitability, albeit, at lower unit revenue. So I think we’re very excited about where South America sits. And the beaches this winter seem a little oversaturated that will rationalize itself out as we move through the year.
Thanks, Stephen. This is Ed. I hope there’s no more surprises, but I’d be lying to you if I thought that’s the case. I mean I think we’re continuing to work through the – in this post-pandemic world, the implications of the supply chain issues that we saw. And while the MAX 9 issue is a one off, separate issue, I’m not referring to that. I am referring principally to the engine side of the business.
And there’s a lot of work on Pratt. We have a lot of reliance on Pratt. And their challenges that they’re facing have been well chronicled. One of the things that we see on the engine side is as a lot of the incremental resources that our engine providers and suppliers have put their resources against it also strips away resources from maintenance work on their existing business with us. So we’re working through as efficient a manner with Pratt. They were in this week and spent a lot of time with them.
Roles and gee, everybody in the engine world has challenges, not just on the original build, but more importantly on the parts and the repair side of the business. And a lot of it’s an experience factor level. All the suppliers in our industry lost a tremendous amount of experience due to the pandemic. And it’s taking time to get that back, to get the turn times, down to where they need to be. And when you have higher turn times, that not only delays the entry into service, it also causes costs to go up.
David, if I could jump in here, it’s hard to overstate just how hard it was to bring the full business back up again over the last 2.5 years. And the intensity of that has been phenomenal. And our team’s done a great job, but it’s taken every fiber of our being and hiring and resource we have to try to get ahead of it. We’re there now. Okay. And you see the results in the fourth quarter, they were remarkable. The best fourth quarter operational results I think this company has ever posted.
And that is, I think, the big opportunity as we enter the year. I don’t know that we know yet just how much we have available to us as we start to return to a normalized environment and start tweaking those efficiencies. I think it’s going to be significant. And it’s kind of hard to forecast, because this team has been for the last two plus years in a very different part of the build, but I’m confident we’re going to see some great opportunities. And that’s to Jamie’s earlier question, some of my internal expectations of hoping that we can get through that $7 above EPS number. I’m willing to put that number on paper quite yet, but I think the opportunity is there.
David, I think it’s all the above. And it’s not just what you mentioned on the cost side, it’s also on the revenue side. Consumer behaviors have changed a lot. And to this point, we’ve been using somewhat older models to predict behavioral patterns. And we now have actually a good baseline over the last year and a half of what – how consumers are purchasing, what they’re purchasing, when they want to travel, which Glen and his team will use to drive better network and revenue outcomes for our business. It’s in the cost line.
Well, I think I mentioned it as a response to one of the other questions, but we have pretty good visibility on the early bookings for the summer Transatlantic season, and we have a higher booked load factor as well as higher yield. So those are the two things you watch for and both are indicating quite positive for the Transatlantic.
The U.S. has, of course, a closer in booking curve, but as far as we can see out through a spring break, things look great for the U.S. And as I mentioned earlier, some of the close in beach resorts have a little bit too much industry capacity this year. That’ll probably get rationalized out over time, but still will be very profitable as we move through the peak winter season.
And then as Pacific rush, as we continue to lap the buildup of our Pacific as we move through the year, we expect those unit revenues to accelerate demand, particularly strong to the as well as to Japan in the spring season. So very exciting. As we look forward, I hope we can outdo our plan.
Yes. We’ve seen minimal improvements and what we have seen is mostly in Seattle, where they’ve had to cancel a significant portion of their schedule out of Seattle, but we’ll see how long that stays out. But right now, I wouldn’t say, it’s a significant number in the grander scheme of things. It’s significant for Seattle, but not significant for our whole network.
Thanks, Brandon. And you’re right. When you think about when we set that target, it was in December of 2021. I’ll never forget we were at the exchange. I believe you were there, and Omicron was just being announced as the newest variant. So the level of knowledge that we had to the future and where this thing was going, it was candidly, kind of maybe a bit crazy for us to put out a three year plan.
But I thought it was really important and instructive for us as well as our investors to let them see how we’re thinking about the progress. And the great news is, through the first two years, we are at, if not ahead of plan along the headway. And I think if I was to go back and say what has changed, that maybe has given me a little bit of pause for seven, not longer term, but just in the short-term, I think it’s the higher cost of labor certainly was not known back then. The higher inflation rates were not known back then. And most importantly, the supply chain constraints, the full extent, were not clearly not known, have no knowledge of the challenges we face.
So when you think about all the macros we encountered, I think we’ve done a very good job of controlling those things that we can control. And as you’ve heard from several of the questions, I still internally am targeting us to get to that $7 number this year. And I think we can, I really do. But I think it’s also prudent that we give a nod to some of those macros that we’re facing.
I think the optimization opportunities, as I mentioned, are significant, and they run across every single part of this business. And all of our leaders are working hard to ensure that we’re delivering an excellent quality product which unleashes that optimization benefits. I think the work that we’re doing on the balance sheet with all the debt reduction is derisking and taking that down is important.
We’re on track with our free cash flow guidance, $3 billion to $4 billion this year, and we’re still looking at a $10 billion target between 2023 and 2025 for free cash. So I think you’re right, there’s a lot of noise that, “we were lower inguidance”. I don’t really look at it that way. I just think it’s giving nod to some of the macro realities and wanted to give you a prudent estimate to what we are confident we can deliver this year with a nod towards there’s some real upside here.
So thanks for that question, and I think that plays well into some of the other themes that we’ve talked about. Or what are the potential upsides to our plan that could get you towards the $7. We have planned for stability in the regionals after 2.5 years of really instability, where we didn’t know how many hours we had really three to four months ahead of time.
And what we’ve seen is that there is a lot more stability. What we haven’t accounted for is the full utilization of our fleet. So we still have 50 to 100 airplanes and less of utilization than we have on the ground in our fleet. So should that lower hiring at the main line translate into more availability in the back half of the year? That would be potential upside to our P&L.
Hi, Kelly. No there’s no plans just to cut staffing levels at all. This is about our people being able to garner more experience because a lot of the new employees that we’ve added over the last few years are adding to that 10% and continuing to be a bit more efficient in productivity and the staffing levels. But no, we have no intention to make any reductions in people.
Hi, Allie, this is Ed. The one thing that we’ve seen over the last couple of years which has been great for customers is that the overall reliability in the industry has improved and carriers increasingly are competing over operational performance rather than some other things in the past that people may have been focused against. And I think that’s great and I think it pushes us to be even better, and I think it’s a great outcome for the industry as a whole. So, yes, the competition is definitely more focused on reliability than ever before. And I still expect Delta to maintain its premium lead in that sector.
We are not experiencing any issues around labor shortages. Maybe in very small isolated places we still have some additional people we’d like to bring in, but we are at where we need to be. And for us it’s less about the shortages, it’s more about the new people that we brought on continuing to gain experience, and that’s a big deal, particularly in the maintenance area.
Thank you, Ali. Matthew, we have time for one final question, please.