Marc Benioff
Marc Benioff
Salesforce, Inc. (CRM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks so much for that question. I really appreciate it. I really appreciate everyone's support during the quarter. I don't think we could have had this quarter without everyone who's on the call. We really are very grateful to the support we had, especially from the analysts and the shareholders, because, really, through their guidance and enlightenment, we were able to execute a different plan.
I think when we look back, and I think we have to look backwards to go look forward. Obviously, the 2021 calendar year is like something that none of us have ever experienced in the technology business. It was incredible. You can see that throughout the whole industry.
Then as we entered 2022, it was not 2021, and I think we all understand that. Currencies, measured buying environment, macro conditions, inflation, the stock market. So when we planned 2022 out of 2021, I'm talking calendar years now, that's where I think we had a little incongruence, and then we had to adjust and shift and pivot, and that's really what happened right around Dreamforce. We really started to see it.
We had that great Investor Day with you all. We put out there our profitability framework. We put together our fiscal year 2016 targets. And 90 days ago when everything happened, you know what happened. We don't have to go through it again. It doesn't matter. It's behind us. But you all said, hey, you guys can hit the hyperspace button, just like I said, and we did. We hit the hyperspace button, and we said, we can hit these targets now.
We don't have to wait 2 years, and that's where I'm putting my time, my energy, my effort. I'm very proud of the team for delivering this Q4 operating margin of 29.2% because that really has become like our North Star. As Amy just said, as we look to next year, even in Q1 and so forth, we're saying that this 30% plus world, this is we should be living in that.
We have onboarded the entire management team worldwide to that fact. It's a core part of our V2MOM. It's one of the name of our methods that we are guiding 30% plus. And that's our direction. And at the same time, we had a great quarter. Just like you just heard, Q4 revenue at $8.38 billion, exceed our expectations for many reasons, some currency, but really a lot was execution and execution in the corner from 2 great product lines with our Tableau and MuleSoft team, extremely impressive execution.
And I'll also just call out what an unbelievable performance for the year at $31.4 billion, this is just a huge incredible software company that has got great margins and great cash flow and a great position in the market. So that's where my head is at.
There's basically 2 motions here. One is, just like we just heard, Brian has to continue to deliver the ACVs. That's why we're keeping a lot of stability in our sales organization right now, maintaining the productivity, deliver the year in ACV. This is really critical for us. That's motion number one.
Motion number two is also, at the same time, profitability. Profitability is our -- truly our #1 strategy, and that's my #1 strategy. That's what I've been focused on with the management team. That is the #1 thing we talked about at the start of every meeting we have in this company. And that is why we were able to deliver that in 90 days.
You all know that we've never had an efficiency focus in the company before because we've had 24 incredible years of where we've had to just grow, grow, grow. There have been moments where we've had to pull back. '01, '02, bad recession, we had to pull back. '08, '09, we had to pull back and reassess.
We're kind of looking at this moment as, hey, we can reassess. This is a incredible moment. We can deliver great results. You saw we're delivering more than 10% growth -- revenue growth, but we want to deliver this more than 27% margin growth for the year and -- not growth, but margin target. And we're going -- obviously, the growth rate is actually much higher.
I mean I think that, that is amazing that we've delivered more than 4 points last year, not basis points, 4 points, and 4.5 points this year, and that's my main focus. I've gotten a lot of great coaching. I'll just -- huge call out to my mentor, Larry Ellison, who has spent a lot of time with me, giving me the Oracle playbook. And I'm very grateful to him.
He was the first person who texted me after the earnings came out today. And as -- I'll tell you, it's good to have friends in the world when things happen, and he's been a great friend, and we're executing that playbook to increase our margins. They obviously have best-of-class margins. So it's great to have someone on your side like that and great to have all of you on our side as well because without all you, we would not be able to deliver this quarter. So thank you so much for everything. .
Well, I just think that's such a great question, Brad. And thank you so much, and also thanks to you for the quarter, your support. I would like to say that, of course, we have a lot of great products, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, our platform, Marketing Cloud, Commerce Cloud or verticals that you know. But there's been an evolution of our CDP.
I think it kind of started in Marketing, and it's become so much more. We're entering this new world of AI. And we've always been influenced by the world of AI and IoT and seeing our customers try to add in all of their intelligent devices onto our platform so they can have better relationships with their customers who are connected to them in these incredible new ways.
And you may remember, we're going to have Thunder, the IoT cloud. That was kind of a version 1 idea of the CDP, and it didn't exactly work out. The main reason why is customers really wanted an integrated deeply inside Salesforce with our metadata platform. And they wanted it to be a data lake inside Salesforce, and we had built it outside. So we realized, let's build it back inside the platform, which is what we've done.
And this data cloud, you can see it now deployed in customers, and I'll give you a couple of great examples. One is Ford, amazing what they have done with the Data Cloud. Of course, they're using Sales Cloud and Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud, but it's all integrated with the Data Cloud, and they deployed their first product this quarter, which is the Mach-E. So if you have a Mach-E -- I have one, they're amazing -- and you're getting text messages from Ford or e-mail messages, you're getting them from our Data Cloud, and that is incredible to see that.
Boston Scientific, another amazing story that I mentioned, this idea that they were able to use Data Cloud to unify their front office and back office systems together in this really incredible integrated way.
Formula 1, I just reviewed last night, how they -- only 1% of Formula 1 fans -- F1 fans that they're the only -- they come to the races. The other 99% they have to connect with electronically, but they need an intelligent AI-based system. And with Data Cloud, you can bring your own AI model. We ingest it. And then our system automatically is connecting with your customer. And as they're interfacing in all of our different clouds, the AI-based Data Cloud is doing this incredible heavy lifting.
So it's going to be an amazing organic driver for us. I mean it's probably our fastest-growing cloud in the quarter. And I can't be more excited to show more of what we're doing there. You've seen some of it at Dreamforce. You saw some of it where -- we've now deeply integrated Tableau into it. So Tableau has a server now finally, but Tableau also is an incredible window onto all of the Salesforce data through the data cloud, really neat work. And our engineering team, a huge call out to them for this great success. .
To understand what we're going through, I really did go back and looked at all the numbers in '01, '02 and '08, '09. And what you said, Kash, is quite enlightened in that. Of course, we saw in '08, '09 ACV fall off dramatically. And of course, we hit the break on spending, and we accelerated margin, I think, 6 points during that time. I don't know the exact numbers, but it was a moment where you see sales and marketing companies, marketing spend -- when these things happen, CEOs, they stop hiring salespeople. They stop spending on marketing, right? Everybody knows the methodology of what, how CEOs behave in a recession. As soon as the stock market implodes CEOs, they hit the brakes.
So I think that, that's what we saw in '08, '09. I think we really started to see that in the middle of '22, maybe August, September, October, November. Certainly, as we've exited Dreamforce, we were like, I think that we can execute our playbook. We have a recession playbook. We know how to transform the company. Well, you just saw it in the last 90 days where the things we're doing are launching on our -- really launched a profitable growth strategy. This is a key part of what we're doing, really making sure that every executive in this company knows that profitability is our highest priority and making sure that we keep in the very forefront of our mind that Salesforce is not just one of the largest and fastest growing.
You can see that I think that we gained -- we probably added or created more ACV than all the other SaaS companies combine. Like our ACV numbers are massive, but also the most profitable software company in the world, the most -- the highest cash flow. That's what's on our mind.
And to do that, we are really focusing on making sure we have the expertise in the company. And I'll tell you, Dreamforce, you are all sitting in the audience. You know Mason Morfit was there, sitting next to his founder, Jeff Ubben. And we had been working with Mason, and he started bringing us these incredible ideas on distribution, on pricing, on efficiency. It was these incredible strategic decks. I have never seen the level of quality of work from anyone outside the company before. I was just so inspired with what Mason came up with that, and I'm like, you know what, we should put him on the board and he has added just incredible value.
I mean probably a lot from the Microsoft experience, obviously, being on the Microsoft Board was awesome for him. And the expertise that we're getting as a Board member is incredible. I think he starts today, but he has really been working with us now and has been really cool. And a huge call out to Jeff, too, because Jeff has been a friend for many years and great thoughts.
I'll tell you -- and all of these guys, I'll tell you -- there's a lot of them. We all know that. I've learned from everybody. I really appreciate all of their feedback. It's been fantastic. And we're also adding 2 more great Board members today, I mentioned already. But you might now know, Sachin, the CFO of Mastercard, incredible financial expertise. And also Arnold Donald, who I've known for so many years, is probably one of the greatest Fortune 100 CEOs of our time, incredible executive. Looking forward to everyone getting to know him.
And again, a huge thank you to Sandy and Alan, all of you -- I know many of you work for Sandy in your careers. And it's hard to see Sandy leave the Board because we love him, but it's been 20 years so it's probably the right moment. We're having dinner next week, and it's going to be a lot of gratitude there.
And I think that those points, combined with -- by the way, we're going to repurchase so much stock, $20 billion, I think it's real right time. We've already did $4 billion and that's obviously critical for us, and we even created this new Business Transformation Committee. So the Board can really keep their eye on these KPIs that we're talking about.
But yes, performance, productivity, the fundamental profitability of the company, the prioritization of our products, leading with growth like with our new Data Cloud, with our verticals that was very enlightened that question and our services organization as well. We have a lot of growth things. So when you look at -- the buying environment gets back online in some huge way, and it doesn't become measured, I think we are very well positioned for the future, and we have these great customer relationships. And I don't think there's any other evidence of that than the -- that we just hit a record low on customer attrition.
Aloha.