Tony Spring
Spring
Macy's, Inc. (M) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Matt. The focus on the Macy's nameplate is threefold. One is to address the underproductive assets within the franchise. Hopefully, that will be about 50 assets monetized this year. If you recall from the comments in the opening remarks, there's a big delta in sales performance between the go-forward fleet and the non-go-forward fleet on both comp store sales and 4-wall EBITDA. In terms of actions that we're taking, we have focused ourselves on the first 50 to make sure that those stores are emblematic of what the future of Macy's brand will be, and that's elevated merchandise assortments, more powerful visual presentations, additional staffing in areas like women's shoes and ready-to-wear. The other piece I would say is ensuring that our digital experience is more consistent. It's providing product pools that allow you to have selection and choice without fatigue and making sure that there's a level of inspiration throughout the brand touch points with the consumer. And finally, it's leaning into the breadth of our portfolio. So it's opening stores while we're closing stores, looking at Macy's small-format opportunities, expanding the reach of Bloomingdale's and leaning into the growth opportunity in Bluemercury. Adrian?
Thanks, Matt.
Thanks, Oliver. I'll take the first piece of it. So I think in terms of the range on our sales forecast, we have a lot of newness in the spring season, whether that be the composition of our inventory in the first quarter, more seasonally appropriate, the right mix of both newness as well as transitional product. I think it's the lapping of the expansion of Nike. So we were not up against Nike until the third quarter of this year. It's the introduction of Under Armour into more stores. I think it's the -- being up against less exiting of the private brand portfolio and the full year of On 34th and the reimagination of I.N.C. So I think that from within the Macy's construct on both private brand and new market brands, we feel like we're entering 2024 with more upside and the headwinds come down a little bit. As it relates to the contribution of Bloomingdale's and Bluemercury, they're clearly smaller parts of our portfolio today. They have ample opportunity for growth. Both are leaders within their categories. The beauty market is obviously far bigger than our fair share today. And Bloomingdale's is coming off of several years of good performance and has the opportunity to capitalize on the disruption in the marketplace. They are not solely a luxury brand, which means they have growth potential across a number of different categories with a very loyal multi-generational customer.
Thanks, Oliver.