Dave Bozeman
Dave Bozeman
C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (CHRW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, Brian, I'm going to have Arun jump in and address your question. Thanks for the question, by the way.
Yeah, Chris, just to add on to what Mike said, we're also looking at this to, as we've said before, is really position ourselves to be in a strong pole position for the market rebound, and we feel good about where we're headed there. Best data we have is back half of this year. If we start seeing that inflection, we're driving our cost structure to have really that operating leverage put us in a great position as well as continue to go after structural cost while creating that balance. So I feel really good about that and the things that we're putting in place to drive that. So thanks for the question.
Hey, Jeff, thanks for the question. Yeah, let me double-click on that a little bit more here. The implication as we're looking forward is about what you said the first time. It's about focus for where we want to go. Our focus for this company is truckload, LTL, Ocean, and Air. And that doesn't mean -- I mean, we have a lot of other feeder type of businesses that will help to drive the growth of those key businesses that I spoke of. And that's really what our focus is going to be about. Now you're going to always look at things and evaluate them and say what's the best for the company from an operational perspective and long term. But focus is about really truckload and it's about LTL, Ocean, Air and maximizing the feed of those particular businesses. So that's really where I'm doing, and I'm constantly evaluating the entire company on that.
You got it. Thank you.
Yeah, Bruce, thanks for the question. The -- today if you look at -- let's just focus on our two largest businesses, which really kind of drive overall for Robinson, in NAST and Global Forwarding. We track today our customers. Half of our customers use essentially both NAST and Global Forwarding Services are driven by [half] (ph). So what we're looking at is that the opportunity there, while that's good, we think that there's a opportunity for more wallet share that we have there by unlocking the potential of those services. And as I look at this, showing up in a more synergistic fashion, which is something that I notice going forward, our customers really want that. They want solutions to complicated problems that they have in their supply chain. We can offer that, and I think that separates us out. But showing up as kind of a la carte or individual solutions, I think while we're generating some value there, there's more value we get by really showing up as a suite of services to solve more complicated, deeper issues for the customer. And that's why we're focusing on that. We have good momentum and energy around that, and we have some structured things that we're doing already within the company to drive and unlock some of that value.