Tony Cheng
Tony Cheng
Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (RGA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Let me take that, John. Really, I just want to firstly just reiterate our strategy, which hasn't changed, which is, we, as I mentioned in my comments, we've got this incredible risk management and pricing capability. And when you combine it with the entrepreneurial spirit, the collaboration between our great people, this leads to innovation leads to growing market share. And as I said during Investor Day, it's very important for our growth to continue to grow reinsurance markets and grow underlying insurance markets.
So to answer your question, I'm really delighted with the proportion of our new business that came from what we call Creation Re. Broadly, it's really pursuing exclusive transactions where we're able to provide the idea, provide the innovative solution, hopefully give the partner that we partner with an edge to create greater value for that company and we share in that value.
So what I'd say, I'm not going to give you a specific number. We set a target, we well exceeded that target during the year. We'll obviously up our targets internally for 2024. But really, delighted with how that's going. And it really shows the strength of our strategy, the strength of our people and really the excitement within the organization.
And sorry, gentleman, let me just add a few more comments on your first question. Thank you for asking the question around long-term value from LDTI. I'll state the obvious that is only the business that's under LDTI. There is a significant proportion of our business that is not covered under LDTI at the moment.
Yes. I mean, I'd say we haven't kept track of those numbers necessarily. I mean, it's always been part of our culture really from Day One. I would say it has broadly directionally increased over time. And as you allude to, it may differ in different geographies around the world and business units.
Now what really delighted me is as the messaging within the organization under Anna and now myself got stronger, just the belief in the teams that perhaps were not pursuing that as vigorously. We obviously asked them to -- look, that's the direction, give it a try. And there's nothing more fulfilling for any leader to see teams succeed in that, raise their own self belief that, hey, we can do this. And therefore, that's why we're so excited about our prospects and seeing some of the flywheel of the virtuous cycle really kicking off.
Yes. No. I mean definitely, the margins are better, but obviously, it's a win-win with us and our clients, right? I mean we're truly able to give them something that they're willing to commit an exclusive too. So it must be of great value. It's usually first to market or innovative. And then it's a greater value creator for us and our partner. And obviously, we're able to share some of that value.
Yes. Perhaps let me just add, and I'll just kind of queue off what Jonathan said on diversification. So obviously, we will be mortality long for quite a period of time. but the longevity adds some diversification. But just to get a bit more finer, yes, our mortality block tends to be higher socioeconomics in younger age. Our longevity block obviously tends to be blue collar and retirees. So with medical advances that we would expect to continue to see, as we've always seen, in a way, it favors the mortality block more so than the negative on the longevity block.
Thanks, Alex. Thanks for the question. I think we've previously shared, we have anecdotally seen some impact on the competition. There was a previous quotation where due to an announcement in Bermuda overnight, the number of competitors on a certain individual quotation drop dramatically. We obviously are very mindful of regulations around the world, Bermuda, the U.S., even Europe and U.K., we're seeing obviously some discussions. We're not overly concerned by that, we always continue to focus on what we're doing. And in some sense, that's why we're very delighted with the Belgium transaction that we did. There is a lot of discussion on regulatory issues in the continent but we were very delighted with that transaction. We believe it can open up further opportunities in Belgium and broader throughout the continent.
Yes, maybe I'll take that one. I mean I think directionally, it's in a positive direction. Our job is always, as I mentioned earlier, continue to innovate, find new ways to have a win-win with our partners, so they have a strong compelling reason to reinsure. I would say session rates as they usually track is on new business. What we have seen increasing interesting as some of the clients move towards a more capital-light derisking their in-force blocks of business. That creates greater opportunities for us on an in-force perspective, reinsuring mortality on back books and so on.
Thank you, everyone, for your questions and sincere thanks for your continued interest in RGA. This was a very strong quarter, but really completing a very, very strong year. Further demonstrates our substantial earning powers in our business. I think you've seen all the time the incredibly diverse platform we have, whether it's experience, whether it's geography, whether it's our business strategy, and that's really fueling, we feel, a very strong pipeline that we obviously have visibility on. So we really remain very well positioned to capitalize on the many growth opportunities ahead. We're absolutely confident in our ability to continue to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders and benefit all our stakeholders. So thank you once again.