Michael K
Chevron Corporation (CVX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Mike Wirth
Yeah. So, you're right, Neil. The schedule and cost guidance is unchanged. I apologize for a more complex slide than we usually put out in front of you, but we want to be as transparent as we can and help people understand what's going on there at the field.
Last quarter, we talked about our action plan, and we're seeing improved productivity. We've shifted scope amongst contractors. We've added more engineering support in the field. And as we move through this, we're encountering discovery work, as we expected. We found some around piping stress and alignment that we're working on right now.
The key thing to think about here is, first of all, there's a lot of stuff that's up and running. All the new wells are producing right now, all this infrastructure, in terms of utility and power distribution and control center, is up and running. And as we -- and so that's keeping the plants full and we saw really strong performance last year, I mentioned the strongest in four years and the fourth strongest in the history of the field.
So, we're seeing good deliverability out of the new wells, which is the key thing for production this year, is keeping those plants full while we begin to convert the field from pushing into a high-pressure plant to lower back pressure on the field, which improves deliverability from the wells and allows us to extend the life of the field and get up to a million barrels a day.
So when we begin converting these metering stations and there are 21 of them, we will then take production from a metering station now that is producing under low pressure and we'll boost that back up to get into the existing plant. As we get more and more of those converted, more of these pressure boost compressors online, we'll get the whole field now producing against the lower back pressure, which gives us a lot of excess well capacity and it ensures that we are going to keep the plant full. And as we then bring on the new process equipment, we start to route that low-pressure production into a plant that will run at lower pressure. And so that's really the kind of the high-level description of what we're trying to convey there and we've got a legend that shows you certain things are going to begin start up in various quarters.
For FGP, we're focused on commissioning the major equipment there that will allow us to bring up the plant that will take us to a million barrels a day and we're transferring learnings from compressors, pumps, and other things that we're working on now, walking down all the critical substations and we'll continue to provide updates on the key milestones here. We're talking about a couple of gas turbine generators online.
First quarter is the Inlet separator is ready for operation and we'll commission that on sweet fluids as we prepare it for sour production and then, as I said, in the second quarter, we begin the PBF startup and metering station conversions. So it's all on track with our guidance and we will continue to provide you detail as we move forward each quarter on specific milestones and progress.
Yeah. Doug, it's really premature for us to comment on that until the transaction closes. Hess has a pretty tight portfolio of assets that are performing well and we really need to close the deal, have access to all the data and reoptimize all of our views of portfolio investments and update our new plan. And so I don't want to speculate on any assets and look, we've got some of our own assets that we do have out in the public domain already. You may have seen reports on Kaybob Duvernay on Congo.
So, there are some divestments that we have signalled out of the Chevron portfolio and I think as you see the divestments unfold over the next few years because we will have more assets in the portfolio that come from Legacy Chevron that is likely to be a greater contributor I would guess to the overall $10 billion to $15 billion number than things that come in through this transaction, but I can't comment on Malaysia or any other particular asset until we get past the close.
Yeah Paul, I don't have all that stuff right on the top of my head to go back to 2019. It's a fair request, but look I think we showed a chart in here over the last several years that our unit costs are relatively flat in fact. I think we're number two on that chart. We don't break out each of the competitors.
Our unit OpEx last year was about $15.80 a barrel which is about 5% lower than the year before and we still have outstanding unit optics reduction targets going out to 2026 at mid-cycle. We've had some inflation along the way, but you're right. We took a lot of costs out of the business in 2020 and 2021. So, as we bring together, Hess, and this gets a little bit to the question that Doug was asking as well, we will come out with, an update to investors that talks about the portfolio updates, guidance on all the metrics that matter and I assure you that I have not changed my view that cost control, excuse me, cost control always matters, and capital discipline always matters. So, we will update you on those numbers specifically, Paul.
Thanks, Sam. Absolutely, TCO dividends are on a higher trajectory just because capital is wound down and as we've said, when we get the incremental production from FGP, it goes even higher. There are some puts and takes. So we talked in last year that TCO had held some surplus cash and released that last year. This year, they're going to have to build some cash as they head into debt payments, which as you recall, we co-lent. So we'll be receiving that.
So there are some -- there'll be some timing variation, but your point around the trajectory is absolutely right because CapEx is winding down. So this has been largely self-funded as an affiliate company. As CapEx goes down, there's more cash available. It does depend on commodity price assumptions. You're right, LNG is in there and also petchem. And so those are the major drivers, a little bit of refining are the major drivers of our affiliate dividend. So it's a roughly flat with the prior year. We'll update that as we go along during the year, but absolutely, TCO, we've been investing in that project for eight years. It's going to generate a lot of cash when it comes on next year.
Yeah Nitin, what I would say on technology, I reference the fact that we're drilling more feet out of the same rig fleet, we're improving on completions and so there are a lot of small things that are contributing to the performance that we're seeing right now.
The improved recovery technologies are in various stages of being piloted out in the field and so to the extent some of those pilots are in the production, they contribute, but I would say it's at the margin, because we're gathering field data to look at changes in completion and fracture techniques using gas injection and gas lift in different ways using some different chemicals to improve flow.
So as we get those into large scale deployment, we'll start to talk about that and we'll help you understand how they're contributing, but I would say right now it's more on the drilling and completions cycle time side that we're seeing some of these improvements and so there's more to come.
On midstream infrastructure, some of the issues that we've talked about before can be -- they can be weather related, they can be related to some regulatory items, they can be related to a particular gas processing plant or gathering or off-take pipeline system. We're working all of those because your point is well made as a large producing asset at that scale. We need really, really reliable performance downstream of the wells and we have no constraints on takeaway capacity out of the basin. So we're well positioned, not just for '24 but into '25 and '26 with ultimate takeaway capacity to access the market, but we do have a lot of pipes, pumps, tanks and other things between the field and the market and those things need to perform and that is a high priority for our operations team in the field.
As I mentioned, fourth quarter performance was very strong and they're on this and it's a very high priority. We saw a little bit of weather in January, which Pierre guided to that will have a modest impact, but we're confident that we've got a line of sight on all the operational priorities in order to ensure that that market access isn't constrained.
Yeah. So, we have multiple contractors working on commissioning and startup and so this is everything from walking systems down to ensure that that they've been properly inspected that we refer to as punch list items have been identified, which is work that still needs to be completed by contractors and then you get into the loop checks and equipment runs and all the work to bring pieces of equipment up into service.
So we've got a number of contractors working on this. We've moved scope from contractors that have had lower productivity to those that have exhibited a higher productivity. We've brought in additional resources to beef up the overall capacity and the resources are the contractors that had lower productivity, we've worked with them to understand where are the constraints in the bottlenecks and we've seen one who had a productivity factor as we measure it that was down in the kind of 0.4 range previously is up above 0.7 now and we're targeting to get that up again by a similar quantum.
So there's a lot of work on the ground to be sure we've got the right people working on the right things that we have enough contract resources. We're also bringing in technical resources as we discover items that need more technical solutions and that can include company people or vendor people and we're out much further ahead. Last quarter or the quarter before the walk downs and other identification of issues was a few short weeks ahead of the crews that were actually doing this work. We're several weeks now, seven, eight or more weeks out ahead of the teams that are doing the work. So you've got much better ability to plan and execute the work in a much more efficient manner because you've got some time to put the work backs together, get the permitting done, be sure that you've got all the right tools, equipment, etcetera.
So it's a great big project, Devin. It's the largest brownfield project and most complex brownfield project I've seen in my life and we're seeing good improvements in terms of the on the ground performance out of our team and out of all the contractor teams that are working on this.
Yeah. So I'll quickly just touch on the Midland Basin where we continue to be a first quartile performer, steady consistent performance. We understand the geology. There's less fluid complexity and so we're a top quartile, first quartile performer there in the Midland. In the Delaware, we last year showed actual data on a Delaware-wide basis and then we showed some forward guidance, particularly focused on New Mexico because we were shifting so much of our program into New Mexico, which, as I mentioned earlier, is a more productive portion of the basin and in the Delaware, New Mexico, we saw significant improvement with our second half POPs.
Last year more than 80% of our POPs were in the second half in these more productive areas and the subsurface performance there has been very strong. In the appendix, we've got a slide that shows you 49 POPs out of the 59 POPs were in the second half and you can see that they lay right on the type curve and then you can see the improvement in the Delaware Basin, Texas, which we didn't guide to last year because it was in that combined chart there, but we've seen strong improvement.
We've updated our well spacing and completion designs there and within the basin, there are sub-basins and some of those are performing exceptionally strong as well. So we're seeing performance that is very consistent with what we outlined in the markets today last year. I think the shift in basis was just to provide you a little bit more detail into these sub-basins and we'll continue to report on that basis going forward.
Yeah, so, we're constantly looking to learn and improve and as I mentioned earlier, we've seen significant improvement in drilling time, completion time, time from completion to POP this year and these are a lot of little things, right? This is as you continue doing things, you find more and more efficiencies. We can bring more technology to bear, etcetera.
So, and we look to extend those learnings across the basin and frankly between basins. So into the DJ basin and from the DJ basin down to the Permian, there are differences in the sub-basins that you have to understand and respect, but, the short answer is yes. We are looking for ways to transfer, learnings across there and every time I think we're probably, at the plateau in terms of productivity improvement, smart people find ways to continue to get even better at this and so, I don't think we've seen the end of the performance improvement cycle.
Our overall capital allocation into the basin is largely a function of where our portfolio lies. About 25% is in the Midland Basin. 25% is in the Delaware, New Mexico portion of the basin and then the balance about 50% is in Delaware, Texas. It's been that way here, this past year and going forward, that's a pretty good way to approximate it.
Yeah, so we've now got a fourth quarter is the first full quarter with PDC. The third quarter we had two months out of the three with PDC in there. And you can see we came in in the fourth quarter a little bit over 400,000 barrels a day, which is our plans are to hold the DJ around 400,000 barrels a day going forward in a highly efficient factory and fourth quarter was maybe even a little stronger than we might have expected. There wasn't as much weather related downtime in November and December and then there were some accounting adjustments that were booked into the fourth quarter that were not really related to operations.
So the above 400 is there's a few things contributing to that that probably are not repeating or going to pull back a little bit. But we're confident we can hold around 400,000 barrels a day. We're still executing the well design and well spacing that was in the PDC basis of design, which is a little bit different than ours. A little few more wells and tighter spacing and driven more to drive volume.
Our basis of design is more focused on return on invested capital and so it's wider spacing. It's bigger fracks, but it's less capital overall and higher return and so as we transition to a standardized, more standardized basis of design across the basin, you'll see that roll into the numbers. We got four rigs that are going. We got permits out for multiple years, nearly to the end of the decade and so we're very, very pleased and we're learning things. I got to tell you, you know, there's some stuff that we've learned from PDC that will apply not only in the rest of the DJ, but it's going to apply in the Permian as well. It's going to help us.
So, going forward, these are high cash margin, low break even barrels. We plan to hold it at a plateau around 400 and we've -- synergies are on track there. We've got virtually all the CapEx synergies are essentially in the bag. We're already down to $1 billion there. OpEx is very close to the $100 million we got into. We're now seeing some procurement synergies, which we hadn't originally envisioned. So everything about it is at or better than what we had guided to.
Yeah. And Irene, the macro, I was pulling up the slide on the Henry Hub sensitivity. So broadly speaking, oil markets are pretty balanced right now. I think the geopolitics are the thing that are harder to call and could drive movements one way or another. It could be OpEx plus decisions. It can be this conflict in the Middle East. Economic growth in the world continues to be decent, and our outlook on demand growth for all this year is maybe not quite as strong as last year, but still growing.
Gas is a little bit different. The inventories are high in the U.S. Inventories are high in Europe. We're kind of mostly through the wintertime, certainly through the riskiest period of the wintertime and now, there's these questions that are not going to really weigh in the market. In the near term, but maybe longer term, about exports out of the US and so all of that has got, gas markets under a little more pressure than oil markets or refined products and it's not unusual.
Pierre was just talking about how we build the company to compete through the cycles and different parts of the portfolio basket. Petrochemicals are under some pressure right now as well and so at any point in time, we're going to find some of the fundamentals, probably under pressure. Others are looking pretty good and here in the short term, I think Henry Hub is in the under pressure category.
Well, coming into this year, we now have a full year of PDC that will be part of the portfolio. So that's pretty safe in terms of counting on that. I've already mentioned that fourth quarter was a little bit higher than maybe we even might have expected because we had high reliability. Some of these midstream issues we'd faced in the Permian had didn't repeat. We had this accounting catch-up thing in the Permian as well and we had a pretty light turnaround schedule in the fourth quarter. So it was a strong quarter all the way around.
As we head into next year, we've got some asset sales in the guidance and, Bob, we've been at the low end. We've kind of ended up last couple of years hitting our guidance range, but at the low end and so I think you could probably think of this as being a little more comfortably in the middle of the range this year, given a number of the things that you mentioned. So, we try to give you guidance each year that we expect to hit, and we certainly expect to hit it this year.
Yeah, Neil, we have not used some percentage or range of percentage of cash from operations as kind of a go by for distributions. What we've done is, have leaned on our track record on the dividend, first of all, and we've already clarified what you can expect this year with the 8% increase that we've announced.
And then, I would point you back towards our upside and downside guidance that we've had out there now for a number of years, $10 billion to $20 billion on the range for buybacks and that's in an upside price case. We'd be up towards the higher end of that in a lower price case down at the lower end, both of which we can comfortably handle. We have indicated that post the Hess close, all other thing's equal, we'll see when it happens and how the world looks, when we get there, but we would expect to move from a rate of 17.5 to the top end of 20 because we're so confident in the long-term cash productive capacity of our portfolio and the strength of our balance sheet.
So rather than focusing in on those percentages, I'd really point you towards the specific guidance that we've issued in the kind of the track record. Now, and of course, I think Pierre mentioned this in his comments. We do remain under SEC restrictions right now relative to the rate at which we can buy back and then we'll be out of the market when the Hess proxy is open and so all of these things are under normal times, we don't have one of those constraints on this.
I would like to thank everyone for your time today. We appreciate your interest in Chevron and your participation on today's call. Please stay safe and healthy. Katie, back to you.