Michael Hennigan
Mike Hennigan
Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, Neil, it’s Mike. Yes, I think we said in our prepared remarks that our turnaround spend this year is about the same as last year. But the way you should think about it is, as Maryann mentioned, in the first quarter, we’re pretty heavy at four of our largest facilities, our largest financial generating facility. So we’re taking advantage of the fact that margins are down in the first quarter. So we’re spending $600 million in the first quarter, which is a high number, relative to the full year. And I know we don’t traditionally give quarter-to-quarter, but I’ll just tell you that next quarter, the turnaround number drops down to like $200 million or so, somewhere in that range. So we’re being opportunistic in some regard. A lot of the activity does get planned, but at the same time, we want to take advantage of the fact that the margin environment now is constructive for us to be off-line so that when margins, we think, are going to be a lot stronger in the second quarter, we will have our four largest facilities turn around and ready to deliver results.
You are welcome, Neil.
Yes, Manav, this is Mike. I’ll start. First of all, thank you for the comment on capture. And as you said, it’s not my favorite metric, but I’m a big believer in how much cash are we generating, how much cash per share we’re generating. And I want to lead in those categories is the metric that I spend the most time looking at. But, it does get some good indication, as Mary said, it’s hard just to differentiate the question Neil asked between what’s happening in the market? And what are some of the structural improvements that we’ve implemented over the last couple of years here.
But anyway, thanks for the comment. As far as our capital investment, I’m hoping everybody sees a couple of things. One is, yes, we are investing in our L.A. facility. It’s an area where we believe that we can put a decent amount of investment in there and really improve the competitiveness of that facility, but we already believe it’s one of the top facilities on the West Coast. So it is an area that we want to invest in. Now that particular investment is about efficiency, reliability and lowering our costs. And to your point, being a very reliable supplier out there is an important part of the equation. The other project that we’ve announced is a margin enhancement project. And in our view, things are not going to get easier for unhydrotreated distillate into the future. And if you look at the spreads today, even today, they are pretty wide.
So at the end of the day, what’s driving us the most in both of those, when we put this in the slides is we think both of these projects are north of 20% returns. And hopefully, we’re conservative on that, but we think they are very good investments and again, in two of our largest, highest financial generating facilities. So one of the themes that you’ve heard from us is we’re going to invest in projects that we feel really strong about on a return basis, but they are also enhancing in competitive positions of some of our biggest facilities. And I think you’ve heard the theme from us for a while here. It’s margin enhancement, lower cost and efficiencies. And out on the West Coast, the other driver is there is emissions reductions goals that are going to occur over time, and this project will take care of that in a large way, and that’s why we grouped it into our low-carbon area. So hopefully, that gives you a little bit more color.
You are welcome, Manav.
And Doug, it’s Mike. I know it’s been a source of frustration since we don’t give a lot of detail in this area for competitive reasons. But to Rick’s point, we’ve made some changes. And to be honest with you, I’m more excited about what’s in the future for us. Brian’s new role as Head of Global Optimization for us, I think, is going to make a step change for where we’re going. So we’ve had a lot of momentum in this area. It’s showing up in the results. As we discussed, capture is not my favorite, but generating cash is. And at the end of the day, I think we have more opportunity in the whole area. If we run well and then deliver commercially, we will continue to generate cash and be a good source of return for shareholders.
Good morning, Paul.
Yes. Paul, first off, Dave Heppner’s group is constantly looking at the market and what assets are available I always say I never say never. But in the meantime, while Dave is working on that side of the equation, we’re also looking at the footprint we have and the assets we have. And that’s part of the reason that we came out with the announcement today. Two of our key facilities, we think we can make a meaningful change. And we’ve been more transparent than normal to try and explain to people. We think we got north of 20% return projects here on the assets that we own ourselves.
So, there is always a balance call between, obviously, the assets you own, you know inside and out, whereas the ones you’re evaluating externally, there is a little bit of concern from diligence, etcetera. But I will tell you, I think people know my DNA in general. But at the same time, Dave and his team are challenging where can we make investments that are outside of our portfolio. We haven’t done a lot, as you mentioned on the refining side. But we have made some investments overcalling low carbon. We made some investments in some pretreat facilities on the low carbon side. We’ve invested in an RNG facility. So Dave and his team are looking at both refining and outside of refining.
And we just constantly talk about that and decide where do we think we want to put our capital. And for today, we’re pleased to report that we think we have two pretty good projects. But the other part, let me just mention this one last thing because this is kind of important. On the slide where we talk about our capital, we say in traditional refining, we’re investing $475 million. Maryann mentioned that $100 million of that is related to the DHT project, but $375 million of that is what we don’t typically talk about on earnings calls. These are projects in all of our facilities that are higher returns, really good projects for us, but they don’t have the sexy headline about them. But if you look at it, though, $375 million out of the $475 million in traditional are these smaller high-return projects. So, the team does a nice job.
Tim and his organization are constantly looking for areas where we can make margin improvement, lower cost, increase reliability. As you said, this all starts with you got to run reliably, and then you got to be smart commercially. And I think we’ve demonstrated that a little bit, and then we just try to invest capital to keep bolstering that equation. So hopefully, that gives you a little more color.
Paul, I will start with the second part. As I have said, I will repeat myself a little bit, but we still think there is quite a ways to go where we can do better, and that was part of the reasoning behind the organizational change. Brian’s role as global optimization lead is going to his team is going to work with the commercial guys with our refining guys. And you heard me say we define process, find places to invest, change what we are doing today. So, I think we have made a lot of progress. People always ask what inning or I guess it’s football season, so what quarter are we in. And that’s always hard to ascertain because I think we keep peeling the onion back and seeing that we can make another step change. So, I am optimistic that we got a lot of road to go. And I think at the end of the day, our mantra is we will just keep watching our results and you will see what comes out of it. As far as the first part, it’s always hard. That’s why I am not the biggest fan of that metric. It’s always hard to differentiate some of the market factors that Maryann mentioned. Obviously, the fourth quarter, you get butane blending as one thing that enhances capture. But there is a significant, if I want to give some kudos to our team, there is a significant change in the way we are approaching the business. You heard from Rick earlier. And so I think it is additive to whatever the market has given us. And my thought is the way we have to run the company is we don’t control the margin environment, but whatever margin environment is given to us, we just got to deliver more results and generate more cash and more cash per share. So, while everybody outside and inside wants to talk about that capture metric, I just keep looking at the one that matters the most to me.
You’re welcome.
Thank you, Roger.
Yes. Roger, I will start off with, the changes are driven by two things. Results, one of the things that I feel my responsibility is to reward the results that we are getting because the team has done a very nice effort across the whole team. And the second part is development, putting people in positions such that they grow more personally so that they can contribute to the team. So, both of those factors, I think played into a lot of these assessments that occurred at the executive level, but it’s also occurring below that and not everybody gets to see. So, I am a big believer in the team approach, practically all decisions that we make, all of our team is involved in. So, there is a heavy component of development on top of the results that have occurred in the last couple of years. As far as me, personally, I think you have heard in the past, that’s a Board decision. The Board is very aware of that. That will play itself out in time. But Board’s, if it’s not their top priority, it’s obviously at the very top of the first couple is what their responsibility is. So, that’s just work in progress. It’s been in progress for quite some time, and it will play itself out as time goes by.
Roger, the other thing I would add is – I am sorry, I just wanted to just add. As a general rule, my belief is we don’t want to be under-levered. We don’t want to be over-levered. We want to find what we think is the appropriate level. And we think we have been there and we have been consistent there. And that’s why people should read into our cash position as that’s going to be targeted for return to shareholders. I think our job is to generate the most cash we can, run the balance sheet properly, which we have done over the past, and then at the end of the day, return excess capital to shareholders.
You’re welcome.
John, it’s Mike. The only thing that I will add is we think it’s part of our DNA and duty to return capital as part of our mantra. So, we have been saying for quite some time, and we have been fortunate, as you said, the margin environment has been conducive to generating more cash. But we have targeted all along to return that capital to shareholders. We are going to continue to do that. And then again, whatever market environment we get handled, or get handed, I am sorry, we will make that still a priority for us. It’s on our capital allocation priority. We will start off with maintaining the assets, growing the dividend, investing in the business. So, that’s still part of our DNA as well. But at the end, I am a huge believer is, give that capital back to shareholders and then let shareholders decide where they want to invest longer term. We want to be the vehicle where we generate cash and return capital, and as people have seen that over time, that isn’t going to change regardless of what the margin environment is.
Theresa, it’s Mike. I will just add. I mean it’s pretty well documented. I mean last year, oil demand globally was over 2 million barrels a day. I know some of the forecasters are calling it 1 million barrels plus-ish. We will see how that plays itself out for this year. But I think the bigger picture, even though there has been a lot of attention, particularly to these two refineries that are coming up, as Rick mentioned later in the year. The reason we believe it’s more constructive over time is we are still believers in demand is going to continue to rise. And absent this short-term issue with some of the supply coming on, we just see it very constructive where demand is going to continue to outpace, and that’s why we think the margins will stay in an above mid-cycle of the term everybody is using. I think at the end of the day, we will obviously keep a watch out it, and there may be some short-term variations to that. But I think part of the reason that we remain bullish is that if we look over time, we are just big believers in demand is going to stay robust. And on paper, aside from the short-term issue, we don’t see a whole lot of supply response, trying to match that. Hopefully, that makes sense to you.
You’re welcome.
Hi Ryan, it’s Mike. Let me just add. We don’t pick a number. We do scenario planning, like Rick have gave you some examples. But – so we do scenario planning, what if it’s $2, what if it’s $4, what if it’s $6 and take a look at it from that perspective rather than trying to estimate what the number is. I am a big believer and it’s hard to call the 50-yard line, but if we get the banks of the river we get the two end zones, right. Then we will be able to run the business properly for the long-term.
So, Jason, on your first part, there is nothing that you said was avoiding costs, however. So, nothing is related to that. So, it’s a – think of it as a reliability project, a modernization project, an efficiency project, a lower-cost project, and reducing greenhouse gas, which we need to do out there. There is regulations out there that are going to occur over time. We could have made the choice to wait until that regulatory requirement was there, but we saw an opportunity to enhance the facility ahead of time. And we have kind of disclosed already, we think there is greater than 20% return there. How do we get comfortable in the overall macro, there is going to be a tough environment for California, if things get more and more competitive out there. But we think we have a very competitive asset. So, we think we are in it for the long-term. We don’t think all the facilities out there will survive the long-term, but as that volatility occurs out there, we want to have a really strong, competitive, reliable, efficient, low-cost facility.