Rainer Blair
Rainer Blair
Danaher Corporation (DHR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Dan. Good morning. And why don't I start off with sort of an overview here on how we've laid out the guide and then we can dig into your bioprocessing question in a little more detail. So, our guide for the full year of 2024 on revenue is down low single digits and now let me break that open and talk about the segments. Biotechnology will be down low to mid-single digits and that's different than bioprocessing.
So, keep in mind I'm not talking about the Biotechnology segment in its entirety. The guide is down low to mid-single digits. Life Sciences down low single digits and Diagnostics up low single digits. And once again overall, that's then down low single digits. Now at a high level, we actually expect the dynamic to be opposite of 2023 with a slow first half returning to growth in the second half. And now let me talk just a little bit about the assumptions around our guidance.
Starting with bioprocessing, which we're guiding to be down low single digits and we think the first half will look a lot like second half of 2023 down mid to high teens coming off of a fourth quarter which showed incrementally improved orders versus Q3. Second half we expect to return to mid to high single-digit growth and we believe by then that the destocking in North America and Western Europe will have largely been completed and of course the comps ease there as well. So importantly for bioprocessing, we think exit rate for the year will be high single digits or better core growth.
Now if we look at Life Sciences, we expect Life Sciences to be down low single digits for the guide and we expect a slow start and we should see growth improve here through the second half given some of the comps that we have seen as the normalization, particularly in the instrument business, continues and we've been talking about that for some time and we expect that to continue into 2024 as well.
Now if we look at that by end market and see pharma and biotech, stable but at lower levels of demand; and then academic and applied markets holding up comparatively better. Geographically, we see China weak with a slower macro and of course in Life Sciences in particular, we have some prior year comps related to the subsidized loan program there. And then lastly on Life Sciences, we expect developed markets to be relatively consistent with 2023.
As we look at Diagnostics, which we are guiding up low single digits, we see no change to the underlying trends, patient volumes have normalized. And in the non-respiratory business, we expect growth of mid-single digits and of course that's offset by lower respiratory revenue, which was $1.9 billion in 2023 and we anticipate that that will be $1.6 billion in 2024. So Dan, that's how the year shapes up by segment and of course then we can now perhaps talk a little bit more detail around bioprocessing.
Thanks, Vijay. Well, starting with the activity level here for bioprocessing. We've really seen no change in the activity level, which continues to be along the long-term growth rate that we've been talking about, high single-digits, 10%. And that's what's been important in terms of drawing the inventories down. So and it aligns with how we spoke about the regional developments here.
Which Western Europe and North America are drawing down inventories more rapidly than perhaps regions that are more, small biotech, emerging biotech companies such as China. So, the activity level continues to be strong. I mentioned to you during the prepared remarks that we've seen a historic level of both approvals as well as number of projects in the biologic development pipeline. So, we continue to be very confident in a - continued positive development there.
Yes Vijay, I mean, I think it's just - it's all going to be mostly a comp issue. The base business, the business outside of, I should say, respiratory continues to do well for Cepheid. All of the other businesses in diagnostics, no real change, to the underlying demand. So it's going to be a comp issue.
All of diagnostics, yes.
Thanks, Vijay.
Good morning, Scott.
Sure. Scott China, let me start with this. We continue to believe China is an attractive market in the long-term that is going to be accretive to our overall growth, and the reason for that is that the Chinese government and frankly, the Chinese people are prioritizing, among very few priorities, they're prioritizing healthcare. More broadly, but also more specifically in terms of building their own pharmaceutical industry.
With both generic and innovative and biosimilar type drugs. And that process, while it has taken a pause here, or certainly slowed as the funding environment has become more difficult in the short-term, we expect that process to work itself out here in the midterm. Now, for China this year, as it relates to our guide, we're assuming that China will be down high single-digits. Yes, because of the challenging macro.
We actually expect that macro to be more challenging than perhaps even what we see in the healthcare market, but we're not planning in that guide, a stimulus from the Chinese government, but more of the same and then of course, the reversing of tough comps here in the second half. So it's going to be a tougher start to the year, as the activity level essentially remains where it has been here in the second half of 2023.
Particularly in biotechnology and life sciences, and then as we get through those tougher comps in the first half, we'll see the second half where we're not assuming significantly higher activity levels, but we do see the math then working in our favor. Longer term, we believe the pull and the requirement in China for these innovative and highly effective drugs is intact and that the investment will continue.
Thanks, Scott.
Good morning, Michael.
So, Michael, just to level set then, coming off a Q4, which the life science tools were down mid-single digits, and that was largely consistent with Q3, and we anticipate that this normalization in life science instruments, which really began in the second half of 2023, will continue in 2024. And if we think about it by end market, we do see pharma and biotech stabilizing, but at these lower levels of demand.
Just because we believe and saw in the numbers showed here, over the last two years or so, an anomalous level of buying and pulling forward of demand, whether that was China through loan subsidies or whether that was COVID dollars infused for additional research, we expect that normalization to continue here. Also, in the first quarter, where we expect life sciences to be down similarly to the fourth quarter.
Now, keep in mind for us, life sciences instruments is only about 10% of the portfolio. So, we may not be a good read across here. Nonetheless, we do think it's going to take some time here in the first quarter, first half, in order for that normalization to occur. But we do believe that it's stabilizing at this lower activity level.
Good morning, Rachel.
And just really just to confirm that we continue to see a trend of more positive conversations of customers returning to normal order patterns, thinking about how they're planning out not only the first, but the second half of the year. So all of these conversations are directionally, we believe, positive and sort of support what we saw also in the sequential improvement, which was partially seasonal certainly, but we also saw some improving order patterns there.
So what we're looking for ultimately, and that's what Matt referred to previously, is a broad-based improvement in order patterns, at which point we will update accordingly. But where we sit today, we think that the first half will be slower also related to some of the comps that we talked about and that the positive development, which we've seen here in the past months, will continue and then manifest itself really in the second half where we then exit with high single-digits or better exit rate.
Good morning.
We think, our life science instrumentation business will, for the year, be down low single-digits. And that's based really on a softer first half of the year and then slow, but persistent improvement here in the second half of the year. What are some of the drivers of that? Well, first of all, here in the first half, we are looking at some pretty significant comps. You will recall the China loan program in particular in the first half of last year, put us into mid to high-teens growth.
And of course, at the current activity levels, that will result in a softer first half here. We also talked about the fact that pharma, biopharma, are constraining their investment a bit more along the lines of just recently having changed out, their installed base, taking advantage of additional dollars available during the pandemic and normalizing here as we get through the first half of the year.
If we think geographically, China remains weak and we don't expect that to improve here. If anything, that will be a second half of the year dynamic. So life science is starting to stabilize really at the activity levels of the second half of last year. We expect that to continue through the first and then see gradual improvement here in the second half of the year, also from a comp perspective.
So, first of all, Abcam, we couldn't be more pleased than having closed that early here in December. They had a good finish to the year and we are working with the team and we're up and running. And of course, you can imagine the DBS implementation is proceeding, in a focused way where the team is really pulling. So Abcam is on the way.
Then as it relates to capital deployment, you heard my comments earlier around our balance sheet optionality, which is strong, we believe, differentiated. And post the Veralto spin, we'll continue, as we always have, to work on deploying that capital to strengthen our portfolio and continue to be active as always.