Richard Adkerson
Richard Adkerson
Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (FCX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Alex, let me just add very briefly that Kathleen makes a really good point about these relative economics. No royalties in the US. US tax rate is much lower -- federal tax rates much lower than outside the US. We have a net operating loss carryforward. Community support is strong in the US and we have no minority interest there. So looking at global benchmarks needs to be adjusted for the site specific factors that we have in the US, and they're very positive.
Well, we're constantly monitoring the market and you can be confident that opportunities are available are presented to us and we consider them. The facts are we haven't found those attractive today. We have such great opportunities to create value totally for our shareholders by focusing on internal growth through the leach project, through the brownfield developments in the Americas, through the Kucing Liar project in Indonesia and now with expectation that we'll go beyond 2041, we're going to do additional exploration there to understand what the opportunities are. Success in any of those opportunities creates value where there's no value in our current share price. So it's all for the best of our shareholders and that makes it much more difficult for external opportunities to compete with them. And my experience has shown that small mines get smaller and big mines get bigger. So we really are, as I said in my opening comments, pleased about where Freeport is positioned for what we believe is going to be a great future for our company.
And Kathleen, just let me add. They're not negotiations over this issue. The mine -- I mean I've spoken in recent months on at least three occasions directly with the President about it. He understands it, the Mines Minister who has the business background clearly understands it. It's just administrative procedurally they concluded not to grant that export rights beyond this date to see if we complete the smelter as we've committed to do it. But beyond that, it will be just be an administrative action to get it approved.
Well, I'll add a brief comment to the first part too, Kathleen. My early experience in my career was in the oil and gas industry. And early on, Dan and I wrote a paper on oil price forecasting, which basically evidenced how wrong forecasts can be. And so we approach, as Kathleen described, all of our investment and business planning on a scenario basis, not trying to predict a particular price or range of price but to look at what impact investment decisions and operating decisions have on our overall portfolio. And we look to protect ourselves on a portfolio basis from downside risk and then structure investments to take advantage of what we have is confidence in the long term price. So it's not any kind of formal rate of return kind of criteria that you see in a lot of industries, which work elsewhere, and have the saying that figures don't lie but liars figure. And so we just really base these things, as I said, on scenario planning and portfolio impacts. The basic thesis, I believe, for the demand for copper is unchanged and continues to be supported. From the very start my work with ICMM where I was Chairman, two occasions, but more recently when all the issues about aspirational goals for carbon reductions were being considered in such promise. I've always said that there are a lot of unanswered questions and the movement towards these aspirational goals will not be consistent, but they'll have issues, complications and so forth and that's certainly what we're seeing. The future of copper is really influenced significantly by investments in carbon reduction and I think it's something the world absolutely has to do. And there are other factors related to global growth, connectivity, these data centers, some of that's being driven by artificial intelligence. Just everywhere you turn, the world is getting more electrified. And that's why I think the fundamental long term demand thesis for copper is just getting stronger and stronger.
A lot more. And your $4 is absolutely right. I mean you just look at recent projects and look at how costs escalate and then what would have taken from an incentive price to justify that project from the outset if the cost numbers have been known. So this is not that complicated. So it's not a greenfield project. We've operated there for 80 years or so. And it's about a straightforward project as you could have, but it's telling for the industry even with this kind of straightforward project the challenge you face. It's cost, it's tailings and we do benefit from infrastructure. This is just a mill expansion. It's not building a new mine. But then there's a challenge of getting workers and housing for workers. So all of this is real telling on the supply side -- I just talked about the demand side support for copper. So this is a great example of a simple project in terms of the relative complexities of projects in our industry, this is relatively simple. And yet, it faces these challenges of being economically justified in today's price. At the outset, I said today's copper price is not a price that’s adequate to stimulate the kind of investments that are going to be needed for this industry. And that's why we're optimistic about future prices.
And Brian, we got a strong enough financial position that we can -- capital is not a barrier for us to do in projects that make sense.
Alan, you're breaking up on us.
And you may have noted this, Kathleen, but importantly, there's no permitting issues. And that is a real challenge for any kind of project you do in terms of brownfield expansions and really tougher greenfield expansion. So here, no capital or operating costs, no permitting delays.
And our contracts are long term in terms of volumes, but the TCRCs are renegotiated each year. And you raised a great point for those of you who haven't followed it, but the situation right now with smelters where they can't get concentrate to process is a real strong indicator of where this market is and where it's going.
Yes. Thank you for joining us today, and everyone, have a great day.