Rick Muncrief
Rick Muncrief
Devon Energy Corporation (DVN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Neil, that’s a good question. We have expressed our frustration, I think, in the market really – we really traded down on some of our variances we saw last year in our production volumes. But even though they were minor from a volumetric standpoint, they weren’t from a stock performance standpoint. So I think the setup is really good for investors as we look forward. So it is going to be, I believe, point of inflection for us as we’ve mentioned. Really bullish about our performance, the team has done a wonderful job, getting us through some tough weather. We’ve seen some increased productivity. I think Clay went through the assets really well, and we’re seeing nice growth on the oil side coming out of this first quarter as we enter second, third, fourth quarters of this year. And I’ll also say, Neil, I feel really good about the next several years on our ability to keep our crude volumes where they’re at. I think that it’s – we’re still early. We still are not getting what I think is a strong, strong signal for demand. But when that call comes, I think we’ll be ready to step up for it. But we really feel good about the trends we’re seeing.
Thanks, Neil.
Yes. Very good question. Arun, our answer has really not changed that much over the last several years. We’re going to continue to evaluate opportunities. When you’re in five basins, you have some great opportunities in all five of those, and we watch that. We stay attuned to those opportunities as they become available or it’s the right time for us to think about that. So I think we’re going to continue to see the high bar. We’re going to – it’s got to be – it has to have some accretion, it has to have the industrial logic that we have always talked about. And it just has to make us a better company. And if it fits in that framework, man, I think that’s our job is to create value for shareholders. And so we’re going to do that. We also have been advocates for consolidation. I think some of the transactions that’s been announced that I think that’s the – I think they’re positive for the industry. And it just shows that we are a depleting industry. And so you always have to replenish. That’s your portfolio that’s not changed. It’s not changed since the beginning of this industry. And so we’ll always be active. We’ve got a great team. We’ve got great analytics, capabilities in-house, and we do our own internal analytics compare that with what you see out in the public market and adjust.
But once again, we’re going to be very, very measured very disciplined. And we will make – we will make some – I think the right decisions, and that does include the binder stock back because I can tell you that at these levels, we are very, very attractive. Great question.
Thanks, Arun.
Thanks, Nitin.
Thank you, Neal.
Hi, Kevin, this is Rick. One of the things that I’ve been really proud of over the last 12 to 18 months is coming on the heels of the Validus acquisition, what we have been able to learn at a solid acreage. It’s – I would say it is second, certainly to our Black Hawk acreage. But the thing about it that we need to remind investors of and analyst is that on the Black Hawk acreage, it’s a 50-50 joint venture with BPX. BPX operates the drilling and the completion of that. And what we felt it was really from a – not only a productivity increase, but also just a strategic perspective, we thought it was imperative that we had an asset that we owned that we did the drilling that we did the completions on. The 5-day well that Clay referenced a while ago, I can tell you that absolutely exceeded anything that we had in our Validus development plan.
So when I look at that, look, now we’re having some very, very meaningful discussions with our joint venture partner there. And they’re very constructive, and I think it’s going to lead to even better performance over time in the Eagle Ford. I’m really pleased with what we’re seeing with the refrac program. It’s going to continue to drive some – I think, some long-term sustainability down there that a lot of people, I think, are underestimating. So I’ll turn it over to Clay to add any additional color, but the Eagle Ford is an area I can tell you that we’re very excited about.
Yes, it’s Rick. I will field that one. Number one, I really like the scale that we currently have. We have a deep resource base across our five basins that we are in. So, I feel really good about that. Now, we are always – as I mentioned earlier, we are always going to be looking to be opportunistic to add resource, to add investment opportunities at a reasonable value, at an attractive value for our shareholders. I think that’s just really incumbent upon this management team to always being on the hunt there. That being said, we are going to be very disciplined. Some of the recent transactions, I think that were out there that were announced. When I look at the metrics on those, those were rich, it really were. And others, there have been a couple of them that were hats off, very nice deals that we certainly weren’t participating in those processes, but good for them. And that’s great, congratulations. But for us, I want to just continue to drive on the point. We are going to continue to be disciplined and we have to balance short-term accretion with long-term, how that fits in for the long haul for Devon. We are a 50-year-old company. We are not a 5-year-old company. And we have to be really, really thoughtful about that. And so we will continue to look for opportunities, but we are going to maintain that discipline. And at the end of the day, we have a deep, deep resource base. And I think that’s something that, that is incumbent upon this management team that we have to continue to drive home and we have to demonstrate not only how we execute, hitting numbers, exceeding whatever that is, but we just have to do a wonderful job in working with the outside community, outside investors on the resource that we have in-house currently.
I think for us, we are going to stick to our strategy. It’s real simply put. We want to stay as oily as we can for as long as we can. And I think we are seeing that play out in real time with – I am not sure we got where gas prices are as we sit here this morning again, but it’s up $2. That’s not a good spot to be in. And so for us, we want to stay as oily and as liquid rich as we possibly can because throughout the entirety of my career, that’s been the place to go. Now, we are all – I think we all are optimistic about what the future of natural gas could be. And we spent quite a bit of time in D.C. talking about the importance of tone, the importance of consistency with some of our public policy, those sorts of things, and then our foreign trade policies. And so we – so for us, I think near-term, to answer your question, we are going to be very interested in oil-prone basins. Oil is going to drive the margins for the foreseeable future, and that’s kind of where we want to be.
You bet.
Yes. I am going to let Clay answer the balance of that. But just in real time, just yesterday, I was talking to our – one of our completion managers down there and we are picking up the fourth crew as we mentioned, but the three that have been out there, the – it’s incredible, Charles, on the efficiencies and what we are doing out there. The number of stages and it’s interesting, there is – it’s healthy competition between the team members and certain of the companies that are involved with it and we are actively comparing and contrasting ways that we can get better and better. And at the end of the day, we want to make sure that we do this very, very safely and efficiently. And so we are constantly changing every pad has its unique characteristics. But I can tell you that more and more, we just see these efficiencies that are just incredible. And things that just 12 months ago, we knew that you would see some efficiencies, but we are exceeding some expectations. Clay, why don’t you maybe some follow-up Charles.
Hey David, it’s Rick. I will add that when we talk about it being flat to up slightly in the Delaware, that’s on the oil side. And as you think about an improving – structurally improving gas and NGL structure, you will see growth there. So, I think you can look at it from an equivalent standpoint, it is a growth basin and it’s going to continue to be. That’s what drove a lot of our 8% growth as a company last year. And so I think you are going to see that continue to play out. That’s not only true of us. That’s true of the entire Permian Basin, whether it’s on the Midland side or the Delaware side, you are going to continue to see gas production, NGL production continue to grow even in a flat oil scenario.
Yes. I think it’s a really good question, and it’s a really important topic for us, only as Devon, but as an industry, and it’s something we are going to stay ahead of. We have changing regulations. Devon wants to make sure that we stay ahead of the curve. And these regulations are coming at us quickly. What a lot of people don’t understand is some of these regulations coming are so onerous that many of the low-volume wells that we have across this nation are going to end up being plugged. And so you are going to see oil and natural gas wells that basically are stripper wells, as we always reform to that are such a low volume. They just quite honestly, they cannot afford to spend capital on. And it’s just – it’s going to be a fact of life. And so there are studies by API and some of the other trade groups talk about that impact, but it is real. So, what Devon wants to do, we want to make sure that we are ahead of the curve, as I have said, and it’s something that we will – I think you will see over time is going to continue to creep up for the next 2 years or 3 years. We want to be very thoughtful about that and prudent with it and strategic about it. But it is something to – that we all just have to deal with. It’s a fact of life.