Brian Roberts
Brian Roberts
Comcast (CMCSA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks Jason, and good morning everyone. I’d like to just emphasize a couple of points.
As I think about the year, it’s hard not to be really proud of what we’ve accomplished. 2023 was the best financial year in our 60-year history, and we already have nice momentum in 2024. As Mike and Jason just outlined, we have a unique company that is incredibly well positioned. We always try to think about and invest for the long term, particularly across the six key growth drivers.
What’s also important is that in 2023 alone, we returned $16 billion in capital to our shareholders. As you just heard, it’s the 16th straight year that we just raised our dividend - that’s consistency. When you put this all together, we have a great team - that’s always most important to me, and we’re making the right adjustments to our businesses to position us to win, grow, and continue to return capital to shareholders. While there may be speculation on what we could do next, I’d like you to hear it directly from me: I love the company we have, so the bar continues to be even higher for us to do anything other than the plan you heard today.
I want to thank all our employees for a great 2023 as they continue to execute at the highest level. With that, let me hand it over to Marci to take all your questions.
I just want to say that we thank the NFL for having the confidence in picking our total company to carry this out. The entire industry cooperated and participated, and it was a very proud moment for, I think, the U.S. internet industry. It worked flawlessly, and I think it’s just another proof point of all the investments that have been made. Thank you again, we’ll see how the results all turn out, but we’re really, really pleased.
One thing I would add - it’s Brian - on Epic, just to touch on that part of the question. It’s completely original. It maybe the most exciting project, I’ve seen since we bought NBC-Universal getting built. I think it’s the first new entire theme park in decades in the U.S., and we’re so excited, we’re taking the board of directors to see the construction in the next couple of weeks, which is something we haven’t ever done before. So, I think you’ll all want to be there.
Sometime, I think ’23 and ’24, are the peak CapEx years for the construction. We expect to open in ’25, and I give Mark Woodbury and the entire team at Universal incredible kudos to coordinate something of this scale and magnitude that’s being built.