1Sephanie Ferris
Stephanie Ferris
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (FIS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah, thanks, Tien-Tsin. Yeah, we're very excited to be guiding to an accelerated total company revenue growth in 2024 as well as in Banking specifically. As we talked about last year, we came in from a recurring revenue standpoint pretty strong, but were facing some nonrecurring headwinds as we disclosed all the year. As we come into 2024, feeling really good about lapping those headwinds. So, thinking about recurring and total Banking Solutions revenue growth coming more in line together as well as the strength of that we're seeing in the back half of 2023 and into 2024 from a sales standpoint and as we think about those sales coming in and delivering on revenue in the back half of '24 and into '25. So both scenarios are helping us in terms of giving us confidence for Banking Solutions and the total company revenue growth to accelerate in 2024, which is why we feel good about what we've guided.
Yeah. Well, first of all, I'd say in terms of Capital One-Discover, I think it's another representation of why it's really important and how people strategically value having many different assets across the fintech ecosystem, which, as you know, at FIS is critical for us in terms of thinking about issuing, payments, network, et cetera. And then, with the strategic relationship we struck with Worldpay going-forward, we'll still have access to the acquiring piece. So, I think it's a demonstration in terms of seeing why the value of having all those assets together is important.
With respect to Cap One and Discover, we have very strategic relationships with both. So, we see it for us in terms of a net positive broadly across the ecosystem. TBD in terms of consolidation. We continue to see folks that would love to consolidate. We'll see what happens with the regulatory environment. But as you know, we tend to be beneficiaries of that consolidation because we tend to serve the larger financial institutions. But I'm waiting and seeing just like everybody else.
Sure. Maybe I'll start, and if James thinks I missed anything, he'll add on. But I would say broadly in terms of macro assumptions, we would say, as we come in on the payments side of our business, within the Banking business, we kept consumer spend pretty consistent in 2024 over 2023.
In terms of overall Banking spend, I think we see two different things happening. I certainly think we see banks who have the opportunity to trend down on discretionary spend. They've been doing that, quite frankly, it's not a new trend. Where we see the demand continuing, and you heard me talk about it in my prepared remarks, is spend around digital to continue to enhance their ability to deliver products and services, and then, really focused around making sure that they can gather deposits. So, utilizing money -- or money movement capabilities and our payment capabilities to help them become the primary depositor for a lot of their lenders. So, I would say there is interest in spending around digital, around money movement capabilities. And then as the regulatory environment continues to heat up, always a focus around our reg tech products.
So, I would say overall, IT spend in the banking sector is pretty consistent. We just continue to see it move into those categories and spending less around anything that they would consider discretionary.
I might also add, we did a lot this year. As you know, it's showing up in the free cash flow conversion. The separation of Worldpay is pretty significant. So, there is pretty significant cost that we expect in '24 and '25 to keep that elevated. Everything else, though, we keep pulling down to deliver a higher free cash flow conversion, but not nothing to get Worldpay separated. And as we've discussed before, we expect that to take up to 24 months. So, we'll spend some pretty significant dollars to get those guys out.
Thank you.
Yeah. I think we were -- I'll start and then maybe James can add in. I think we -- as you guys know, we've been really, really focused on driving and outperforming our Future Forward program. We're extraordinarily pleased with how that's been going and we -- and really were expect -- were pushing it in to be the culture of the company versus a program that ends. So, really pushed on that hard and [we're able] (ph) to deliver an increased expectation for that both in '23 and '24, which as we said is going to offset any dis-synergy.
I think as we think about go-forward margins, we would expect that there should be natural margin expansion in the business, especially as we shift the sales from less technology-enabled sales into the higher technology-enabled sales. And so as we do that, specifically in the Banking Solutions business, you would expect to see Banking Solutions margins naturally expand with that mix expansion.
I think we've talked about Capital Markets in terms of being pretty consistent. We really want to drive organic growth there, and I think squeezing anymore margin out of them will ultimately, over time, hurt their overall organic growth. So, I would expect that to be more flattish as we think about out in that -- out past '24. But I think we'd really probably punt on this question, Darrin, until Investor Day to give you a more clean view of how we think about margins going past 2024.
CapEx and guidance. Yeah, I think on the CapEx side...
Yeah. On the CapEx side, I think we feel really good. We brought it down as you know from a high at one point of 10% last year. I think we brought it down to 9%. We're expecting it to come down 1 point, probably sits in the 7% to 8% range as we think about continuing to invest in the business.
With respect to guidance, I think what we would say, Jason, is we're thrilled with our ability to hit and become just much more consistent in terms of what we guide and meeting expectations. We thought it was really important and we're thrilled to be able to talk about an acceleration of revenue from 2023 to 2024, and we're guiding consistently with how we have historically and continue to be transparent and credible.
Yeah, great question. So, look, I think in terms of backlog, it came in about $23 billion in fourth quarter, accelerating out of September, the third quarter, of $22.2 billion, so felt really good about that. Flat with December of 2022, so $23 billion to $23 billion.
I think as we come into Investor Day, we're going to look to give you better KPIs than this backlog number. As you know, it's a fairly complicated accounting number. I think what we would say is, it's consistent, it's large and it's durable and supportive of the adjusted growth rate revenues we've been giving you. But we would look to give you something a little bit more aligned and helping you understand how it compares specifically to the guide. We've been stuck with this backlog number as you know from historical pieces. And there's just a lot that goes into it as it's a technical accounting number.
But I would say broadly, again, thinking about it, came in around the $23 billion number accelerating off of September, the third quarter, and so feeling very good about it as it goes into 2024. But we'd love to give you something different and a little bit more meaningful as we come into Investor Day.
Yeah. I think as I said, we're seeing a large amount of pipelines. There's a large demand from FIs and banks across the universe for it. I think the challenge for it is how it becomes adopted down-market and in the underlying customers of those banks. But the banks are definitely focused on enabling it and having it in their quiver in terms of things that they can offer in terms of money movement. TBD in terms of the underlying business moves and whether it becomes adopted faster than other ways to move money in the ecosystem. I think that remains to be played out.
Yeah. No, happy to. So, I think in the new sales momentum, where, as you know, we shifted, specifically, the team, so that they would sell more of our technology-enabled solutions. So, where I'm seeing momentum is really in the digital space and in the money movement space. So, as you think about what banks are focused on doing in order for them to deliver their products and solutions, the digital capabilities they have, whether it's mobile, online, teller, et cetera, all need to be in sync and refreshed. And there's a lot of demand there. So, seeing a lot of demand for our Digital One Studio, our Digital One business capabilities as banks are really looking to gather deposits. So, the digital capabilities are in high demand.
And then, as they -- as banks think about really want to being the primary deposit account for those loans they've gathered over the last 10 years, they want -- they need to make sure that they have the right money movement capabilities to deliver to be that primary bank. And so, we are seeing a lot of demand in digital and payments.
I would say in Capital Markets -- and spent a little bit of time talking about this in the prepared remarks, I think we're seeing demand, really, across all three of our subsegments. Thinking about securities and processing, we've talked about our Clear Derivatives solution. It continues to be a market-leading solution, even outside the traditional broker dealers. So that's been in high demand.
Our commercial lending technology solutions really are getting adopted even outside the traditional financial institutions. So, if you're a sophisticated financial services corporate, so we talked a lot about auto dealers and other large, sophisticated financial services, they need a lot of capabilities. They are seeing high demand there. And then treasury. Our treasury solution is best of breed, and we see folks adopting that across the corporate landscape.
And then, the other place that we're seeing a ton of demand is in overall ESG. We have a fantastic ESG product. Every company that's an SEC registrant company needs to have some sort of ESG reporting capability. So, see a lot of demand there.
Thanks, Ashwin.
Yeah. So, it's really all of the above. So, we took a look at how we were compensating the sales force and -- at the beginning of last year, and all dollars at that point were considered equal. And so, what we did was change the incentive comp sales so that the higher-margin products would be compensated higher and specifically with respect to recurring revenue. That took hold in the beginning of last year. And we're seeing the transition of those sales from the lower margin to the higher margin. In fact, I think over time from '22 to '23, we saw an 80 basis point increase in the mix of low-margin to high-margin. So, we're definitely seeing it.
I think the other thing that we did at the beginning of last year was really look at productivity across our sales teams and did a pretty significant look at how we wanted -- what the sales productivity metrics we were expecting. Again, from the beginning, the first half of '23 to the back half of '23, saw some pretty significant increases in productivity.
In terms of overall number of salespeople, I think that, in general, we would say they're same number, but I think we are seeing better output because of productivity and then as well as a result of higher margin. So, that's what giving us some confidence as we think about the back half of '24 and '25 as those sales start to come in and get delivered into the P&L.