1Phebe Novakovic
Phebe Novakovic
General Dynamics (GD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
So we have 15 airplanes ready to go and the hope is that we deliver them this quarter. The notifications that Gulfstream made earlier, I guess, this week, are in the regular order and really have no material impact on the certification process. I tried to give you as much clarity as I could around the certification and where we are.
So we're not going to go into what we've assumed for any given airplane in our guidance. So let me give you guys some perspective about this. For the last about eight years, we've tried to give you some clarity about a process over which we have no control and it's kind of like sticking your fingers in a light socket to predict a process that we just don't control. So I think we're going to be silent as we go forward about any specificity around certification timing because then we hear words like slip and miss and these planes are going to get certified, but get certified on the FAA schedule.
So let's step back a minute and talk a little bit about the shipbuilding industrial base in general and the submarine industrial base in particular. These are very heavily manpower-driven businesses and industry and an entire supply chain and manpower availability was impacted significantly as a result of COVID in two respects.
First, we had a really stunning increase in the timing and the number of retirements of seasoned workers throughout the industrial base. That, coupled with the post-COVID labor shortages, caused considerable perturbation in the supply chain. Those will begin to remedy. We've already seen some stabilization in the labor market. Those won't remedy, but there's clearly learning that has to happen throughout the supply chain.
I'd say with respect to capacity, at Electric Boat, we are nicely sufficient capacity at the moment to deal with the demand that we have -- we see at the moment, but should that demand signal increase in the near term, we'll work closely with our Navy customer.
I think key to the stabilization of the supply chain is improved delivery and improved quality and that happens as new workers come down their learning curves. We've benefited from Electric Boat because they have a very robust training system in which our new workers come out at a higher level of proficiency, but still they need to come down their learning curves and they're doing so nicely.
I think to add a little bit of perspective to that, Electric Boat, we increased our velocity and throughput on Virginia by about 10% this year in '24% and about 30% on Columbia. So Electric Boat is continuing to do well. They just need to continue to improve their productivity, so we can continue to offset some of these financial impacts that we're seeing from the supply chain.
But I would finally mention the Navy has been a very good partner in recognizing these challenges and working hard to get orders and certainty of demand into the supply chain and that helps the entire supply chain plan.
So I think we're going to look at all of that with the Navy, but let me tell you, the best thing we can do for AUKUS in the moment is get back to two-a-year production. That's one step at a time.
So the plane is performing very nicely in excess of the design parameters. We see considerable interest in that end of the market and so we are quite positive about that airplane when it enters into service.
Well, it depends on what the orders are for. On faster transaction material like service and munitions, they can move a little more quickly. Longer lead orders on combat vehicles take a little bit longer. So we factored to the best of our ability the known demand signals and the velocity of contracting into our plan. So the extent that there is upside, it'll be I think largely on the armament munition programs that execute at a faster rate and to the extent that we can speed up even further the installation of additional jigs and fixtures for productivity as well as our increased scope on delivery of munitions, that should help as well.
But we think we had -- look in all cases, we give you a very balanced I'd say, 50-50 plan with opportunities and risks and we're quite comfortable with the estimates that we've given you at the time.
So we have factored in all known funding into our plan and should we see an extensive and continuing resolution, we'll have to see what impact that has on our faster transaction businesses because every CR plays out a bit differently and to the extent that we have a sequester then we have factored some of that, but apparently, clearly you can't do all of it into your plan. So we'll adjust accordingly, but we are hopeful that the Congress is able to pass a critical defense bill, particularly in these times given the threat environment.
If you think about it, the demand signals we see and our expected growth make share repurchases increasingly compelling. Hey, one thing that Jason talked about, just mentioned tangentially, and I want to focus a little bit on and just give you guys some perspective, when we talk about a one-to-one book-to-bill in our businesses, that's really for planning purposes. It's not a forecast. So just keep that in mind.
Hey, can you repeat the last part of your question? It was kind of coming in.
Yeah, the G700 comes in at accretive margins, but as you all know, and many of you are quite expert in this, we've talked about over the years, including on this call, the margin performance at Gulfstream is driven by a host of issues and as I noted in my remarks, mix, pricing, out of station work, all impacted. So I think, again, as I mentioned earlier, the way to think about our plan is a really balanced plan. Not quite the question you asked, but I'd stick with that and I'd think about it that way. But these new airplanes are coming in at very nice margins.
Combat is seeing some of it, but I tried to give you some perspective earlier on the impacts of what happened to the industrial base in the Marine group, and it also impacted Gulfstream as a result of COVID. So for us, it's really a question of operating excellence, operating excellence, operating excellence. We're going to focus on that very heavily. So we drive increased profitable growth. That's the value proposition that we're looking at right now.
No, I wouldn't look at anything macro with respect to that. In a quickly growing environment, contracts tend to come in a little bit more lumpier, and so this is simply a question of timing. I think we see mid to upper single digits over and toward the higher upper single digits over our planned period, but we've given you the plan that given the faster execution of contracting that we saw last year, we may have a bit of a slowdown in the first couple quarters and then acceleration as the year goes on, but the demand is there.
Yes, so we're going to deliver 160 airplanes that's in our plan this year. I will say that '25 will be more deliveries and '26 even more deliveries, but at this point given the issues that you mentioned, we're not going to be any more granular than that. We owe you additional fidelity as time goes on.
Well, look, I don't see us particularly burning through backlog given the robust backlog we have and given the robust pipeline that we have. We're off to a good start this year. So I don't see anything that particularly drives an unhealthy burn through the backlog. We have believed for some time and it is turning out to be the case that new clean sheet airplanes drive incremental demand and we're certainly seeing that and we don't see much of an abatement in that.
Well, look, our order rate has been quite healthy and quite wholesome and we would expect additional orders supported by the pipeline to come in this year. So we're not going to give you any real granularity around orders per quarter, but we see nice demand, continuing interest, and a very solid pipeline. To me, those are the sort of foundational elements that we rely on for looking on a going forward basis, looking at what production can ultimately be.
Okay. Right. So look, let's agree that we shouldn't in any given moment infer something from an implied margin. I think as you know probably better than most that the margin performance in any given quarter is driven by a myriad of factors that we have gone over multiple, multiple times and I think in this environment where we are encouraged by the supply chain, but we've got more ways to go, we think that we have given you a very, very balanced plan and I really stick to that plan. That's how I think about it.
With respect to the G280, we have properly adjusted our plan to deal with the realities of what they are facing there. They are continuing to perform with retirees and management and as I say, we factored all of that into our expectations for the year.
I wouldn't say it's a P&L drag. It's just a reality of the multiplicity of factors that are impacting us. '24 is a pivotal year. We saw a significant improvement in the supply chain during the course of the year that frankly allowed us to increase production in the latter half of the year. If you recall, we were delivering between 24 aircraft and 25 aircraft and we delivered 39 aircraft in the fourth quarter. That makes us pretty optimistic that we can continue to increase production, but we are cautious about the ability of the supply chain to keep up. All indicators are that they're doing quite well, but this is one step at a time and there's more risk. As I say, we're optimistic, but we've got a ways to go.
Hey, you guys are reverse engineering incremental margin and it's almost impossible to deal with in the complexity of this business. I would infer nothing from it. Look, let's talk about the underlying capabilities. Gulfstream has a lot of operating leverage. They've always been a good since we acquired them at GD years ago. They have been strong operating performers, with very good margin performance and gross margins coming out of their operations.
That won't change, but the mix of business, the level of any given quarters, timing around supply chain and its impact on out-of-station work and mix of service, jet aviation, all of those things are contributing. So, there is nothing systemic other than those issues that you know, and they are temporary and we will work through the supply chain issues, but there's nothing systemic that should concern you about where we stand on Gulfstream and its ability to increase margins, earnings and revenue over time here.
Well, EPA adjustments can always be a good source of income. Look, I think the way that we've always talked about Marine growth being somewhat lumpy, $300 million to $500 million in any given year, but in the next two years, we expect between $600 million and $1 billion in per annum growth. So the growth is there. It just comes in on a lumpier basis than one might want, but it is there.
So with respect to Virginia and any EPA adjustments, we're continuing to work with the Navy. We had contemplated the impact of Columbia prioritization, as had the Navy, on Virginia and that's just a work in progress as we work through all the particulars with the Navy, but we think we've given you a pretty good indicator of this year's revenue and we'll adjust it accordingly if anything changes on the upside.
And Audra, I think we have time for just one more question.
So we have been pretty well resourced by the Navy and for many, many years in anticipation of particularly the Columbia and Block 5. So I think from our perspective where we really need some assistance and continued assistance from the Navy is stabilization of on-time delivery and quality coming out of the out of the supply chain. So I think that as we go through this year, I'm sure there'll be additional opportunities for us to work with the Navy and find some ability to relieve those pain points that remain in the supply chain.
Hey, and listen, before we leave, I just wanted, this is for many of you may know, this is Jason's last earnings call, and I wanted to thank him for his excellent years of service as a CFO. He will be missed, but his work will continue at Technologies. So I'm sure all of you will join me in congratulating Jason on a superb CFO job well done over the years.