Pedro Pizarro
So I think I'll start, Maria. I can continue here. But we're focusing on what we are investing in ‘24 and we see that being an investment in systems, processes, or continued work and operational excellence that we think will accrue benefits for customers over the long haul. So it's really all about making sure that we are thinking long term and doing good things for the business. This is not like one big bang. It's multiple opportunities. So I think we've discussed with investors in the past consistent with our operational excellence work.
And, Steve, I think a reminder beyond those projects that have been identified by ISO, to go back to our countdown to 2045 white paper from last year as we looked across all of California, we see this continued need to invest in the grid over the long term through 2045 with the pace of transmission of issues needing to be 4x statewide what it's been historically and the pace of distribution of issues needing to be 10x what it's been historically. So we see a lot of work for the utility in the two decades ahead. Great.
What I said was that the majority of it was from one claim, Anthony. And what we're seeing is that as we went to that, it was one claim and then I think just a small number of other claims made up the balance of that. We're seeing that our research modeling continues to be robust, but we had a couple unique outliers that required an adjustment this time.
es. Sorry, we can’t go into more detail right now.
Yes, thanks, David. That's a great question. And first of all, let me just probably repeat myself a little bit here, but when we think about the building electrification application, I think SCE had done a really nice job of two things. One, identifying a big gap in deployment, and secondly, coming up with a solution that basically had a cost benefit of one, right? So that is actually pretty attractive when you have an emerging technology like heat pumps. And so the second thing that they were developing this application with that cost benefit of one, that would not only send it its own two feet, but it was going to create a demand signal that would be very powerful to then help manufacturers go off in scale and capture those economies of scale that you get as you increase the volumes that you're producing. We saw this phenomenon, right? Collectively in California and more broadly, we saw the phenomenon with solar. And the early RPS targets helped drive down solar manufacturing costs. We'd seen a phenomenon with battery cells, right, which have come down in costs dramatically. I think there were probably 10% of the costs that used to be a decade ago. And that hasn't happened with heat pumps yet, hence the building electrification application. We appreciated that the commission created SCE for creativity, and I agree. But they felt these near-term pressures, affordability and passing the application.
They also pointed though to some of the other funding that they thought was available and perhaps didn't think that SCE had factored in sufficiently. I can respectfully disagree with that view. I think SCE had factored that in. And what's ironic about it is that that very same week, actually a few days before the PUC voted out that final decision, the governor unfortunately cut out something like $200 million from his budget proposal for building electrification. And so to me that just shows that here say one of the key gaps as we identified in our Mind the Gap white paper a few years ago, building electrification, if you think about total greenhouse gas emissions in the state, buildings account for about 10% of greenhouse gas emissions, but we saw building electrification being able to make up about a quarter of the gap that we saw in terms of newly carbonization steps needed between we filed that or published our white paper two, three years ago in 2030. So sorry for the long preamble, but it kind of gives you context of how important we think building electrification is. So what do we do now? Well, for us, let me just remind you that that denial of DEA doesn't impact at all the 5% to 7% EPS growth targets we have for ‘25 and for ‘28, that would have been incremental on top of that.
And it certainly does not impact the merit of SCE’s ‘25 GRC application because the infrastructure investment that's called for there is absolutely needed regardless of what happened with the, but our team will continue to look at how is the gap shaping up for the state, how is the state doing in terms of meeting its 2030 legislative target of a 40% economy-wide reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 and the levels, how is the state doing in terms of getting to net zero by 2045 and we expect we'll continue to see building electrification being a laggard in terms of the progress in the state so our team is already thinking about are there other opportunities to help the state help itself and whether that's another application like this one, we certainly wouldn't go back out with the same thing at no point to that but we'll continue to think creatively about is it an application standalone, are other funding sources that can be tapped that might be existing today but that maybe haven't been quite fully tapped yet, are there things that SCE can do to utility, are there things that SCE can encourage others to do to help address the gap thinking about the whole space right now and we'll keep you posted. Does that help, David?
Well, the need certainly doesn’t go away, today it’s increasing.
And I would just use it as an opportunity a little shameless plug but this kind of goes back to page 3 in the deck. We manage the business. We have met or exceeded our guidance for the last two decades and we plan to continue doing that Julien.
Yes. And Julien, again, same thing for ‘28 is for ‘25. We've shared with you our target of 5% to 7% growth rate through ‘28. And our growth rate will be someplace in that 5% to 7% range. For ‘25, you're going to see a growth rate for us. It's going to be 5% to 7%. It's not 3%, it's not 4%, it's going to be 5% to 7%. So we're going to meet our guidance and deliver on our expectations for you all.