David Flitman
David Flitman
US Foods Holding Corp. (USFD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. Thanks for the question, Lauren. As you've heard from others, there were a few weather disruptions across the country in January. That's no surprise. But we were pleased actually with the recovery that we've seen since we've got past the labor disruption and those weather events, notwithstanding what happened on the West Coast last week and a little Nor’easter earlier this week. And really, really pleased with the team's work around the labor disruption. I've been doing this for a long time in many industries and I've seen labor disruptions before. I will tell you that we are as well prepared going into that event as I've ever seen. We came out with a very strong plan to go get our volume back. And so I'm pleased to see the progress that we've made and largely in those non-labor disrupted markets, we've seen our volumes get back to basically the trajectory we saw in the fourth quarter which was very strong, as you heard this morning. So really feeling good about that.
And just a little bit more color I can give you is the early read on the Circana data, formerly NPD, as Dirk said, we maintained our market share in January and I was quite pleased to hear that. So all in all, more work to do but feel really good about our trajectory and certainly our team's focus to continue to drive that growth.
Well, I think largely, Brian, you will see us continue to lean in on the areas that we've been focused on and I was pleased. It's kind of the tale of 2 halves last year. We spent a lot of time in the first half of the year really honing our focus in on the needle-moving activities and really pleased with the trajectory that you saw us deliver in the back half of the year resulting in those productivity improvements that I quoted. And look, there's more work to do in all of those areas, whether it's in COGS and the work we've done with our suppliers, the pricing optimization work and certainly the supply chain productivity. Really pleased with the progress we're making at routing but there's a lot more to do there. So largely the same. You heard my comments earlier about indirect spend. That's a piece of work that we started to talk about in the back half of last year and really started to see some traction really in the back half of the fourth quarter. So that was very good to see. And I think we will ramp up that effort significantly in the first half of this year and deliver significant productivity improvement there as well. So largely a lot of the same work, just a lot more to do and a few new things.
Yes. I think largely it depends on the mix of talent that you're bringing in. We have had great success in finding strong sales talent with industry experience and not all that's coming directly from competition. Others in foodservice that understand the market and the industry and have a sales background fit really well in our model. We spend a lot of time training people, as you know. And I think long term, Brian, the right way to think about that is we should be able to grow our cases 30% to 50% faster than our head count additions. But again, there's a ramp-up period for that. So as we get into the cycle of kind of a stable single to mid -- low to mid-single-digit growth, that's what you should expect over the long run.
Yes. For sure, we will continue to maintain our focus in the independent space. It's the most profitable segment of the business. It plays to our strengths in terms of our product and sales portfolio. So that's clearly a very strong focus for us. And what we saw last year, to your question, in hospitality and health care, largely a strong recovery from an industry perspective which provided some tailwinds. And importantly, as we talked about last year, we believe we're differentiated in health care with our VITALS platform and some of the other things we have on the technology front. We've got a very strong pipeline in both health care and hospitality that we expect will deliver outsized growth again this year. Maybe not at the rate that we saw last year, just given the recovery is largely intact but we expect to continue to drive growth at or above market in both of those segments.
Yes. I really can't comment on what others are doing relative to their sales comp. I think my color this morning largely gave in our prepared remarks where we really haven't made any significant changes to our plan since some tweaks that were made in the pandemic which was largely aimed at maintaining our sales headcount and providing what we needed to, to keep folks in the company as volumes decline. And as we get back on this aggressive profitable growth plan, those tweaks that we talked about there are really aimed at just giving our sellers the incentive they need to accelerate growth. The couple of things around shifting to more variable compensation, uncapping that portion of their pay, I want our sellers to make as much money as they possibly can if that means great things for our growth and for the company's future. So again, I kind of foreshadowed this last quarter saying these were tweaks, not significant overhauls of our comp plan and it's been well received. And to your question, that all went into effect here in the first quarter.
Yes, good question, John. We're focused on adding territory managers to continue to drive growth. But to your point, we have to have the right support around them. So the right number of specialists new business managers go out and target new opportunities, sometimes on their own, largely in parallel in partnership with our TMs. And then as we continue to grow our size and scale the sales force, we've got to make sure we've got the right management team in place as well. And the right number of districts and we add district managers when that makes sense, too, to make sure that we don't overload our leadership. So all that is embedded in that 6% growth number, some of those pieces are growing at a slower rate, obviously, than the TMs. But when I think about that low to mid-single digits, that's really comprehensive of all those rules.
Yes. So the first part of your question, I think we largely believe that the existing long plan that we're finishing up this year, feel really good about our progress. As we commented previously, I think we had outsized improvement in the first couple of pillars of that, the profit and the growth pillars and largely supply chain activity has lagged since the pandemic. I was pleased with the progress that we made in the back half of the year. However, I think largely that portion of our improvement has still lagged the other 2 areas. And so I see the greatest opportunity for productivity gains largely coming out of the supply chain. That's why I get so excited about our flex scheduling the card platform despite all the improvements that we've made in routing efficiencies last year with some record cases per mile. There's a lot more to do and we'll get a lot of benefit once we get the card spread across the country here. So a lot more work to do in all those areas, John but I would say productivity is the one area we're ramping up most aggressively.
Yes. I think generally, Alex, you're thinking about it right. I think there's a lot more runway there and as excited as I am about flex scheduling and my comments in the prepared remarks there, said we've seen outsized improvement in our pilot markets. So even where we've expanded it -- expanded it across the half of our markets, we haven't yet gotten the productivity uplift that we've seen in the pilot and it just takes time, right? It takes the local team time to -- to work in the new operating model as well as our associates and we expect continued productivity gains there over time. So we'll have a lot more to say about long-term productivity targets in June. But just suffice it to say, we're excited about the work. We think we're working on the right areas of improvement to drive the focus for the company going forward. And I'm bullish of our ability to continue to lean in and drive productivity.
So the gate answer is no. We haven't seen any nor do I expect any. I think our team did a very good job preparing for this rollout. We had a thoughtful approach to that. Any time you make change even if it's positive, you've got a change management process. You've got to leave through and that starts with robust communications. So we did a very nice job of that starting actually very early in the fall last year. So we had plenty of time to not only give our sales team a heads up but kind of model their compensation in the old model and the new model. so they could see what that looks like and importantly, understand what actions, if any, they had to take differently to maintain or actually increase their compensation. And so as we got further and closer to that date, what we saw was our sellers got excited about it because they see the opportunity to make more money lined up with what we've done here.
So, I don't expect any attrition from this with something that we look at very closely all the time, every week, as you would expect. And we haven't yet seen anything nor do I expect to.
I think it's actually a little early on the national side to see anything significant change yet. We're still in the ramp-up phase. We're pleased that customers are liking it and the bracing it similar to have -- the way they have in independent restaurants. And remember, what we said that's going on in independents is that those customers are buying more and they're stickier. They stick with us longer. We would expect to see those same sort of benefits through the course of time in the national area, just like we have in independents.
Yes. We're excited about what we've done in M&A, Ed and certainly the latest one we talked about here this morning with IWC. And as we said, the majority of their business is in the independent space which is -- fits right in our wheelhouse, exactly the type of strategy we want to deploy. And IWC in particular, I didn't say this on the call but we're serving that market today but we're coming through 2 other distribution centers that are probably 3 hours away from the market. So we're not getting there very efficiently. So in all 3 of the acquisitions, they've solved that problem for us and have the right mix of business to help us to continue to drive growth on that platform. So we're pleased with it. These are accretive and make great sense. We're not overpaying for these acquisitions. And to the last part of your question, M&A is hard to predict. We don't know when deals are coming to the market. We've been opportunistic on all 3 of these. We will continue to be but I'd be hard-pressed to predict how the rest of the year may or may not play out. But what you're seeing us do is drive these tuck-ins in a way that just makes absolute sense for our business over the long haul and that's what we'll continue to look for. We think there's still opportunities out there.
Well, first of all, I'll say we'll say a lot more about all that up in June. But having said that, I think what you've seen us deliver, particularly in 2023 was a great balance in our P&L. We've got very good top line growth. We're leveraging that quite well based on some of the comments you heard from Dirk and our control of operating expenses. We're leveraging that quite well through the P&L. And so that model is working quite well for us. I'm excited about our top line growth, we're investing in the right areas, both to drive top line growth and continue to drive productivity and efficiency in the business. And I think that will continue for a long time to come. So think balance, I think just equal opportunity in the top line as well as the leverage areas of GP and expense control.
Great question. We're excited about Pronto, where we penetrated the market with that. We see a great uplift in independent growth, particularly with new customers there. and that comes fairly early. It gives us additional tool in our tool kit to service customers, particularly in those dense geographies where it's hard to get to or they may need more frequent deliveries than we do with our larger deliveries. I would say we're not mature in that yet but we've got 5 more markets we're going to penetrate this year. I will say that not all markets are right for Pronto, particularly those larger dense geography markets make the most sense. We still have plenty of opportunity there. And I'd be remiss to not reiterate that we see plenty of growth where we've already penetrated the market with Pronto and continue to add new trucks and capabilities there where we've had success. So I see probably an equal balance for new market penetration as well as existing market growth.
Yes. We see this as an isolated issue. We pride ourselves on having very strong relations with our associates, whether they're represented or not. We've got a long history of reaching positive win-win outcomes with our labor unions across the country. We had a disruption. And as I said, we're well prepared for it. We got through it in a few weeks and settled largely on the offer that we put forward at the end of last year. So those things come and go over time. You don't expect them to happen but you need to be planned and ready for it and we were. We've got a number, just like we do every year, we've got a number of new agreements that are up for negotiations this year and we expect those to go well.
Well, the reason I lead with it is it's the right thing to do for our associates and for our company. And I say this all the time to our team Andy, if we can't keep our people safe working for us every day, then nothing else we're going to accomplish matters. I'm that passionate about it. And when I got here, we didn't have actually the focus I felt we needed on safety and that's why I'm so excited about our 23% improvement last year. We will continue to focus on it because it's the right thing. Now having said that, to your question, Yes. I think safety performance is a good indicator of overall operating discipline that you have in areas like quality, productivity, how you think about the customer. I worked with DuPont for 20 years, you might remember. And I used to be able to walk into an operation and just observe and look around. And if I saw a good housekeeping and safety behavior you can kind of get a good sense for how that operation was run top to bottom. So it's the right thing for our people. It's the right thing for our company and for our business and we'll stay focused on it.
I think it will be. That's not really the driver of it. But I think folks coming in from the outside that are hungry great salespeople and we tell them that that's the way the comp is structured. I think that will be a real benefit. We just want to our folks in the right way to drive as much profitable growth as they can for themselves and for the company and we thought that made sense.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us today. We have very strong momentum in our business. We're excited about the future. We look forward to seeing all of you on June 5, we'll talk before then. Have a great rest of the week.