Matthew C
I think they look reasonable, obviously. You touched on it, in regards to the seasonality and weather and when it's, really wet in California, people generally don't go out. If it's really cold in the Gulf Coast, people don't know how to drive. And, indeed we just had some weather here in the northeast. That certainly impacts it. But that's seasonal, I think going into the remainder of the year, I'm fairly pleased where I was much more cautious on the soft landing going back over the last couple of years. Overall GDP and the economy look pretty constructive.
I'll make a couple of comments and then ask Karen to comment in terms of doing anything differently, I don't think so, we would maintain the balance sheet that we're having today because it's the right thing to do, and there are a number of benefits, some of which we've already gotten in terms of trade credit.
We have market participants that can see through the rating agencies. I was born of the credit world, meaning that's where I began my career in banking. And the credit agencies are going to be slower, and that's just a reality. That's not news to us. We have good relationship with each of them. I think we're going to continue to demonstrate that indeed we have a market leading balance sheet on any credit metric someone wants to pull up.
So, we're operating our business, as we would if the credit rating agencies didn't exist. We do want recognition for what the reality is, but that will take some time. Karen, I don't know if you had any other comments.
Nothing has changed. A couple of positive developments have come down the path in regards to as we've gotten into Q1, we expect for all of Q1 that we'll get our actual low carbon score in regards to our feedstocks, we expect that will come in Q1 and actually applied to the whole quarter. So, that's a positive development.
We are also expecting to in quarter one, be able to be, spec into Europe. That requires approved feedstocks. So, that's not only a regulatory check the box, but it also requires that you have approved feedstocks going to that. That will take a little bit longer to get into our system where we'll be able to fully arb into Europe, but both of those are very positive developments in looking forward.
Looking back, obviously, the catalyst change was impactful in Q4 as we talked about on our last call, and then there was noise around some LCM charges and other things in the financials.
No. Not in regards to refinery startups. Paul, would you make any comments on East Coast?
You have, what we had over the quarter is crude differentials began to widen. That takes a while to get into the plant. So, you see the market indicators on the cost of crude. There's a lag to that, and I expect, you'll see the benefit in the first quarter, on that side of it. But another quite honestly, Doug, the freight realities of having to navigate around the Cape of Good Hope means more materials are on the water, which obviously increases demands on shipping, and freight rates have gone up as a result. I think the net result of that resides in a higher crack on the East Coast. So, I think it's resilient to our markets, but there's nothing extraordinary, on the East Coast that was negatively impacting us.
I'll make some high level comments, and I'll ask Jim Fedena, who's in charge of that operation, to make some comments. Directionally, I think it's been an extraordinary experience so far in getting the plan up on time. Yes, there's you're always going to work out some gremlins coming out. I think we did that better than most. Our relationship with ENI, I think has been off to a terrific start. I was over with some of their executives back in December, indeed, they're stateside. Some of their executives are stateside, and, we're working with our team this week.
So, the partnership, I think is going as well as we could expect. And I think our interests are very, very well aligned, and focused on maximizing all of SBR's capabilities. We still view it as absolutely a tier one asset in the right geographic location, which gives great options on feedstocks. And, disposing of products as opposed to being tied into California, we'll have the wherewithal, to go wherever the market is best. And obviously, we get some benefits connected to Chalmette on the operating expense side. Jim, would you give any other particulars in terms of operations?
It will. Look, there's no question, That, and extensive comments around it, Q4 operations report. And that will, that inventory that we care over, will carry over into the first quarter, but that will then be behind us.
Paul, why don't you give direct comments in regards to what you see every day on the ground in California?
Yes. One, I think the point of what happened in New Mexico speaks to the investment thesis in RD, and that is, over the course of time, governments are going to price carbon to incentivize, the manufacturer of renewable diesel, specifically to our ability to, competitively deliver product into New Mexico. It's too premature to say that. But I would also say, the market is a bathtub, and to the degree New Mexico draws other barrels, it opens up other markets.
So, I'm not so focused on our direct ability to impact, the New Mexico market in particular, but all these things cascade, with each other and it'll free up, demand in other markets. But it's certainly constructive and then consistent with our investment team, as I said.
Well, I think M&A, as I mentioned in the comments, a disciplined and rigorous capital allocation effort. And M&A, is no different than internal projects, or share buybacks. We'll evaluate everything in the market as we always have and judge them against each other and allocate the capital as best we can. I don't think it's worth speculating on M&A activity at the moment. There's nothing of, immediate sort of action. We don't comment on it in the base case anyway. But, it's consistent with what we've been talking about over 2023, the full-year 2023, we are so focused on transforming our balance sheet, and we've done that. It's complete. We mentioned it in the last quarter. We're mentioning it again today. There's nothing left to address there. And so now, we're a company, as any company should be focused on generating cash. As we generate cash, how we can allocate it and whether it's external opportunities, internal opportunities or simply returning cash to shareholders. We've got a dedicated team analyzing all alternatives, as we go forward.
Well, it's interesting. And I'll ask Thomas O’Connor to make some comments. As I sit here today, I was looking at it, as of yesterday. If you look at ‘24 more cracks, the market for calendar ‘24, it actually looks very comparable to ‘23. I think there's been discussions of reverting to the mean, and I'm not so sure, that we're going to revert to the mean as quickly as some maybe we're predicting.
And obviously, there's a very, very big difference from, where we were in ‘22 and even ‘23 to what the historical mean is. But the market is, set up very constructively, as I said. And over the last couple of years, I mean, a big thing has been the industry has been scented, to build inventory has really struggled in that regard.
And so here we sit 2023, and inventories are very, very tight. Yes, there's going to be capacity that's going to be coming on, but quite frankly, it's needed as demand growth, for products worldwide will continue to grow. I would personally take the over on, that equipment coming on time, or, as expected. These are incredibly complex very large, additions in their own right, both in Mexico and Nigeria. And you've got, my experience perspective is I think that probably takes longer. Tom O'Connor, would you make any other comments?
Look, it's our job to continually improve. It's our job to offset inflation with efficiencies. In regards to Toledo, in particular, if you go back to the first part of 2023, they had some operational upsets, much of it due to the weather and some of the storms from, last year. Operationally, Toledo has run pretty reasonably and pretty consistently, for the quarters two through four. In in regards to OpEx, the single biggest thing that will drive OpEx, we'll be running reliably, and increasing throughput.
And obviously, California, didn't do that last quarter, and so you'll see that, putting aside incremental expenses because of some of the downtime. Your OpEx is going to go up on a per barrel basis when you don't operate well. I'm encouraged, it's obviously out of our control, but, we're heading into 2024, with natural gas prices that are certainly better than they have been over the last couple of years. So, that should be a bit of a tailwind.
In regards to capital, we've put out our guidance, over the, I think, earlier in the year. And that guidance included about $50 million of discretionary projects, return projects at each of the refineries. That's the full extent of our, we don't have any other big projects at the moment. So, I believe we put out a number of 800 to 850 for the full year, and that's what it is this year.
In regards to higher capital going forward, I still think, and we may yet still have it, next year as well, you had a three year period, which was just very, very odd, where incredible lows and incredible highs and capital programs were tweaked as a result, appropriately so. But then that result is, you have to end up paying the piper at some point. Indeed, this year we see higher than normal turnaround activity. And I think to a great degree that was impacted by the previous, three or four years. Karen, would you make any other comments on capital?
I would not project any capital above the numbers that Karen just shared. We're always spending some money to comply with rules, but there's nothing extraordinary for PBF.
Yes.
Just in regards to the California, I think it's way too early to speculate. The paper was written which was essentially, a concept I don't think is particularly thought through at this point. I don't think there's any regulatory agency that can dictate, or make demands on, a private company on how much inventory it holds. The concept is, I don't think flushed out to any great degree, and I think the regulators and the and the State government of California can evaluate any number of things. Obviously, they have to do it within the laws.
And, in terms of impacting the market, I don't think, there's a supply and demand problem in California as supply has gone down, so the market is tight. The steps they've taken so far seemingly have not improved that. The concept that was put to the California Energy Commission was that, but it hasn't been flushed through and it's probably not worth speculating at this point.
What was the second question?
No. I mean, I joked earlier, and I think O'Malley even used the term 10 years ago or something, or the lipstick on the pig from the Q4, was the reduced payout to Shell. And so, where we were expecting that to be a much larger number that declined to $20 million. So, that's a net reduction on a capital call. But, I don't see anything else major out of the ordinary.