Heidi Petz
Heidi Petz
The Sherwin-Williams Company (SHW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, I'll tell you right now -- I'll start this off, and then I'll hand it over to Al to give some color commentary as well. I would start by, you said this beautifully. As you look at kind of the drivers of what's making us effective in the investments that we're laying in, we'll talk to this in a minute, but we've made some very significant choices relative to some of these segments. And I'll start with Residential Repaint.
We talked about despite some of the choppiness out there, we are continuing rather to take share based on some of these investments that we laid in. It's interesting, in this environment, there's a lot of people that are out there talking about market share gains. And I would say that no one's really posting the mid-single-digit gallon gains that we're seeing versus our mid-teen comparison last year. So not everyone will be able to grow share. I'm confident that we are. And I would also say, given some of these investments, no one is better positioned in the market than we are to help these contractors.
Specific to residential repaint and some of these investments, we're really able to demonstrate our model. We're interacting with these contractors that are looking to move beyond just painting but becoming business owners. So if you can imagine some of the investments that are allowing our teams, our reps to help them in real time in terms of marketing, customer acquisition, even as they look to expand into different substrates. We launched our Gallery Series last year, helping these contractors move from just walls into other surfaces in the home while they're there, kitchen cabinets being a great example. And all of these areas are really our sweet spot.
So in this environment, while we're laying these investments in and we're clearly posting results, I'd also say and characterize this as the residential repaint contractor has never been more receptive to all that we can bring them in terms of our consistent store-to-store experience as they're traveling and growing, access to our highly trained reps that are helping them not just plan work, but helping them in real time to troubleshoot. So the accessibility, that's really important. So there's a list of items here that are really paying off. I'm going to hand it over to Al to give a little bit of specific color on the numbers.
John, one thing I would add to that, too. I think when you've got significant points of differentiation and you believe in your strategy, you're going to invest in them. So while we're growing faster than the market, then we're confident, as Al pointed out, on the return we're going to get here. Our heads are not in the sand. We absolutely know that it's an expense, and we expect to get a return. There's no doubt about that. But we do see this also as an investment to make sure that we continue to outpace the market.
So just to clarify, the mid-single-digit reference was relative to '23. So I think, yes, we would expect it to be flat. Now having said that, I'll go back to my earlier comments that the investments that we placed in, we're not waiting for the market and we don't think the market is going to help us this year. So the team was very diligent. We were very clear on putting those investments in long enough ago last year so that we were in a position to take advantage of this.
So in this environment, while I would characterize the demand as flat, you can absolutely count on our ability to take share. We've got the right positioning in the market. We've got a model that allows us to absolutely understand largely not just through our stores and our reps, through our data, our ability to follow these customers to partner with these customers and helping them not just to get by with their current projects, helping them travel, helping them grow and really helping partner with them as they're looking to grow their business. So the characterization would be flat, but I would expect us absolutely to outpace the market there.
Yes, property management right now, I would characterize this similar to how we look at New Residential. So this is going to be a segment, that's going to be extremely exciting to watch. We're growing share through some additional agreements with customers that at all sizes, all the way through. So it's been I think clear out in the market there's been some incremental capacity that's been entering the market, which we benefit from during construction. And then these turns become an annuity for us which is a significant part of our business. So we're looking at this on both sides.
There's another piece of this. And I think if you look at the dynamics between what's happening with kind of new commercial property management, we're also benefiting from the upgrading of properties that are competing with these new units and investing in keeping their properties current and fresh. So our teams are touching certainly both the CapEx projects and maintenance as well as color and design support, trying to make our customers successful. So we're going to catch them on either side. They're -- people are going to live somewhere. So we're going to make sure that we're meeting our customers where they're at regardless of what's going on with the economy. And you can expect that we'll take share in this current environment.
Yes, Mike. Normal is exactly how I would characterize that. And I think as we've all come through the last few years, I would also say that the alignment and the partnership has never been at a better place.
Yes. Chuck, it's certainly an interesting environment right now. I'll start with our stores. I know you want to get to the consumer piece. As you know, in our stores, it's a small part of the business, and we are catering to a unique, I would call it a subsegment, which is a higher end customer that really values more of that high touch that we can provide.
And candidly, this time of year, it's even smaller. And we'll need to see how the consumer is going to react to the macro conditions during the paint season. So I would say that it's early, and we're certainly watching that. But you talk about the Consumer Brands Group, which is obviously our focus on circling the market from every angle. So you've got more price points certainly within that environment.
And Al mentioned the Pros Who Paint already. But in terms of the DIY, it certainly is -- it's a choppy market right now. We're trying to stay really close to it and being in lockstep with our retail partners to look for opportunities to continue to build strength in that end segment.
Yes.
Well, first and foremost, it's volume. I'll go back to Al's comments earlier. We certainly are looking at the margin expansion and ultimately operating margin, but volume is no doubt the key focus. Al, I know -- Al and I are both sitting here wanting to jump at this answer. So I'll share this with him.
Well, Steve, I'll start. And I would say that there's absolutely opportunity to drive some improvement here in terms of mix shift. And if you look at this through our view, it's very much segment driven. And I'll go back to my earlier comments on the Res Repaint. That is such a -- and Al said this just a few moments ago. We have opportunity to gain share in every one of our targeted segments, and Residential Repaint in particular. So as you think about the opportunity for us to help this contractor, we talk a lot about helping them be more productive and more profitable.
But your point is spot on here that it is our best interest to help partner with them to make them as productive as possible. So the role of premium products, making sure that they understand that the time saving, the labor cost saving that correlates to the use of some of those products is a great -- it's a win-win for them and for us. That's a great example given where the macro is right now. So we absolutely expect mix to be a significant part of that.
Having said that, as we watch New Residential come back, the teams are working hard on our simplification efforts there to ensure that we continue to put the right products in the hands of the right contractors on those jobs as well. So I would expect across the board, a focus on those premium products is a critical part of our strategy.
I will tell you that we don't see a downside here and the level of -- again, if we didn't have access to, we talk about leading indicators, the data that helps us to really understand our contractors. And I'll give you a little bit of color here without going too far is what they're buying, what they're not buying, what their projects are, current and their future pipeline, where they're looking to travel as they're looking to grow and expand in the different territories.
And so we're able to then, Josh, take our data, sit down with our reps and our sales managers and make sure that they are armed to truly help bring value to these contractors in a way that a competitor that doesn't have a specialty paint store just doesn't have those levers to pull. So I don't see a downside in this environment.
I do. And I also think, I really find your question very interesting, because I think there is a commonality of, certainly, first and foremost, the belief that our strategy is working. I think John has contributed, we say his fingerprints are all over this company, and they absolutely are. So I have the fortune of inheriting an incredibly rock-solid foundation on which to build. And when we talk about just getting started, I couldn't agree more that we are just getting started.
I think in terms of having a different background and bringing perspective into the business, I think it's important to share that my values and John's values are spot-on in terms of culture, customer focus, desire to grow, determination to win. And so bringing a perspective from outside of only a paint category, I think, only helps to continue to put our foot on the gas on what's working. And I would characterize it more maybe as a healthy challenge on where we might have opportunity to strengthen our model and just continue to grow.
Yes. Hi, Arun, I'll start with your first question, and then I'll kick it over to Al for your second one. You mentioned Res Repaint, so I won't touch that. But in terms of -- I won't get into the numbers, but you asked about the magnitude of share gains. And I would point to, candidly, the rest of the segment. So New Residential here is where we're obviously playing a long game, but we're continuing to take share by expanding the number of agreements that we've secured. Even in these very challenging times, we've been able to secure incremental agreements. And we're doing that at a time when there's a lot of pressure on starts. And so as you fast forward and play this out and as the cycle plays out, and it will, our position here is going to be even more significant as these new agreements begin to really pay off with the acceleration of housing starts.
Property management, we hit on that a bit -- I hit on that a bit earlier. But I would say that it's very similar in terms of our ability in this environment to demonstrate our value and secure some of these incremental agreements, again, in property management, that will be true, certainly at the national, regional, and the local level. Our teams have been able to really penetrate based on a lot of the data that we've got access to there.
Certainly, a lot of benefit Commercial, Protective & Marine, two segments that I would say are largely focused on product technology, specifications, and really great distribution. These businesses are both strong, and we're working very hard every day to put distance between ourselves and our competition. And I would go maybe a step further on commercial, where we're confident is we're well positioned in every subsegment within commercial. So when Al mentioned, we've got stronger view in the first half, it might look more soft in the second half. We're prepared to meet our -- these contractors where they are as they're looking to shift and transition within subsegments. So I'm confident that even despite where the market goes, we're going to intercept them.
Well, Kevin, I would tell you that that void is absolutely our opportunity. And I won't get into details here, but I can share with you that you should expect us to be very competitive with that announcement.
Yes, Adam. The lag that we've traditionally described would have traditionally been about four months. And I think that's elongated a bit, probably in another two months, largely due to labor shortages and some other factors that are weighing in there. In terms of the other piece, Al, I'll hand it over to you. You can make some comments on that.
Yes. I would say the conversations, as we mentioned in the earlier prepared remarks, we do this with our customers. And so as we took this out towards the end of last year, it was making sure that they understand why we're going out with this, but also making sure that they're prepared to pass this along and make sure that they're not absorbing that. I think the conversation here quickly becomes making sure that there's a greater outcome here for a focus on the premium products. And that's what we're going to continue to focus on.
The other piece I would mention on that is we talk about value and that we're out demonstrating our value to these contractors every day. And so when we bring a price to them, Eric, it's -- we're not having a price conversation. We're making sure they understand holistically. Again, I'll go back to my earlier comments in terms of access to the rep, the store-to-store consistency and our ability to help with them with leads, help them with bidding activity. So it's a very different discussion than I think many others in our industry are having.
I would say they're normalizing. I don't have a lot of color. I think as you look at some of the visibility into backlog, it's not as long as we have with other segments such as commercial. So to Al's earlier comment, we'll -- like everybody else, we'll know more in the next quarter or two. But at this point, it's pretty limited in terms of future visibility. So the base characteristic would be that it's normalized at the current state.