Sean O_Connor
Sean O'Connor
StoneX Group Inc. (SNEX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Good morning, Dan. How are you?
Yeah. Dan, I'll start just at a high level, and let Bill jump in. So I think, Dan, the best way to think about sort of variable is to correlate it to net operating revenues. Our gross operating revenues are before the interest charge, and obviously, you know there's kind of an accounting anomaly there on the fixed income side. It's before interest charges, it's before sort of brokerage and exchange fees. So, if you look at our net operating revenue, it was up, I guess, 4%, 5%, something like that. I don't have the number right in front of me. And I think you should look at variable related to that, because that's really kind of how most of the payout calculations work.
And then, I would say one other factor. As I mentioned, we're always investing in teams of people, expanding initiatives. And oftentimes, we have some of those costs hitting before we have revenue. As the revenue starts to hit, you start to get variable comp to replace some of that -- or you get offsetting revenue, let me say it that way. So over time, if we just stopped investing in new products and new teams, you would see variable comp come down as a percentage because you would start to see those initiatives either be terminated or become successful, and you had offsetting revenue. And sometimes, there are a little bit of leads and lags on that, so you can see a little bit of fluctuation from quarter-to-quarter just depending on how those new initiatives are running through.
But I'll stop there, and let Bill add anything he wants to add.
Okay. So unfortunately, when you try and digitize and make your business efficient, you end up spending more money in the short term with the hope that eventually when these things kick in, you'll see some of the scale benefits emerging. So, we have been investing in a lot of these initiatives and other similar initiatives for a period of time now. I think we're sort of at max expenditure points on those initiatives right now. I don't see us taking on any other major new initiatives, and our hope is now that some of these initiatives we start to see on the back end, us gaining efficiency.
Now I don't think that means the fixed cost will go down. I think what we should hope for is we can handle greater volume and growth without our cost increasing lockstep. I mean that's really what we're hoping for. It's scalability rather than seeing the costs come down. But we are not anticipating a significant increase in fixed costs. I mean, we've got an inflation push, and inflation is obviously higher than it's been for a while, and we'll probably see somewhere between 3% and 5% sort of embedded growth in those fixed costs. But we're not anticipating a sort of a step change in our fixed costs at this point. I think we took that step change a couple of years ago already.
Okay. Well, obviously, we can't comment on pending litigation. So -- but what I will say is we are aware of the complaint that was filed earlier this week. It seems to us that this action is more focused on media and attracting publicity than anything else because it appeared in the media before the complaint was even filed with the court. So, they went to press first. We're reviewing the complaint, but at this time, we don't believe any of these allegations of any merit. So, we will defend ourselves, we believe we're in a good position, and we don't think there's any merit. So that's about all I can tell you at this point. We're looking into it.
Sure. Well, we never plan for acquisitions. I know that always sounds strange when we say it, given that we've done like 30 acquisitions. We always focus, first and foremost, on sort of the organic growth of our ecosystem and opportunity. And as I said, it's a very constructive environment, we believe for organic growth. I mean, I think the banks are going to be hit with another big capital charge. There was a big conference that the FIA held about that. They believe it could really affect the sort of trading and clearing business at the big banks as it has. That will just accelerate that, so that's good news for us. So that's our primary focus.
That said, we do like to be in the pipeline. We included in most of the transactions that would be sort of sized for us, I think we see most of them. And I would say there's definitely been more interesting opportunities of late than there was probably over the last two years. As I said repeatedly, as we were sort of during the COVID years, things were crazy, people were having sort of big bumps in revenue, and obviously, multiples got to kind of hysterical levels. So at that point, we just didn't see anything that was even remotely interesting.
I think we're now in a more normalized environment, and I think the push to consolidation continues. Smaller firms are struggling and they have to do something, and those are the kind of opportunities we tend to see. So, I think we're sort of back to a more normal cadence. But having said that, I don't think there's necessarily anything on the horizon that we think is close or sort of -- or could be meaningful, but we're definitely looking at more stuff, if that answers your question.
All right. Well, thanks, everyone. It was a long call today. I appreciate all your attention. And I guess on a final note, I'd just like to wish all of those in the U.S. a happy Thanksgiving, and to everyone else, a great holiday season, and we will speak to you in the New Year. Thanks very much. Bye-bye.