Sundar Pichai
Sundar Pichai
Alphabet Inc. (GOOG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Eric. Great question. Look, it is an exciting time. Clearly, as I said, as we are incorporating SGE in the product, the early feedback is positive. And we've been iterating on it, and it clearly works for certain type of queries very well. We are expanding the set of queries where it works very well. It definitely is answering a certain category of queries for the first time in a better way. So that gives us direction to proceed as well.
Overall, one of the things I think people underestimate about Search is the breadth of Search, the amount of queries we see constantly on a new day, which we haven't seen before. And so the trick here is to deliver that high-quality experience across the breadth of what we see in Search.
And over time, we think Assistant will be very complementary. And we will again use generative AI there, particularly with our most advanced models and Bard, and allows us to act more like an agent over time, if I were to think about the future and maybe go beyond answers and follow through for users even more. So that is the -- directionally, what the opportunity set is. Obviously, a lot of execution ahead. But it's an area where I think we have a deep sense of what to do. And all the work we have taken so far, the feedback has been super positive.
Thanks, Justin. First of all, look, we think about effects on Search, obviously, more broadly. People have a lot of information choices. So -- and user expectations are constantly evolving. And so we've been doing this for a long time. And I think what ends up mattering is a strong continuous track record of innovation.
Obviously, generative AI is a new tool in the arsenal. But there's a lot more that goes into Search: the breadth, the depth the diversity across verticals, stability to follow through getting actually access to rich, diverse sources of content on the web and putting it all together in a compelling way.
And I think, through the year two, when we test, we test Search Generative Experience, particularly against everything that's out there. And we can see the progress we are making and how much users are liking the experience better. And so I think I feel very good about the progress. And our road map for '24 is strong both on the Search and the underlying AI progress, including the model. So I'm pretty excited about what's ahead of us in '24.
Look, I think I have tremendous confidence in the quality driven both our work, be it search quality, ads quality, our improvements on search, our improvements on ads RPM, all -- 2 foundational pillars are extraordinary focus on ads quality so that we deliver the actual ROI to advertisers and improve the experience for users and all underpinned by rigor and technical excellence and go-to-market excellence, right?
So the fundamental attributes don't change. I think AI gives us opportunity both on the organic side as well as on the monetization side. And I think we are in the early days of it. I think we'll be able to, taking a long-term view, serve information needs in a deeper way. And so I think about it in that -- with that long-term context, and I'm pretty excited about what's ahead.
Thanks, Mark. On Cloud, let me take that. First of all, a combination of factors. I think definitely excitement around the AI solutions on top of our foundational pillar with data and analytics, infrastructure, security, et cetera. But AI is definitely something which is driving interest and early adoption. And as you saw, that greater than 70% of Gen AI unions are using Google Cloud. And so I think it's an area where our strengths will continue to play out as we go through '24, especially when I look at innovation ahead from us on the AI front. And second, I think there are regional variations, but the cost optimizations in many parts are something we have mostly worked through. And I think that was a contributing factor as well.