Stéphane Bancel
Stéphane Bancel
Moderna, Inc. (MRNA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Great. Thank you, Michael. It’s Stéphane. So in terms of contracting, obviously we cannot start contracting now, because the product is not approved. But our medical team has been quite engaged across the board at medical conferences, talking to healthcare professionals and sharing the great data that was published in December, as you know, for a Phase 3 in the New England Journal of Medicine. So we have active discussions.
There is quite high excitement about the possibility, again, if a product was to be approved to get a pre-filled syringe product. As we discussed in my remarks, as you know, labor shortages are a big issue in pharmacy. For any of us that has gone to a pharmacy in the fall, you could see it was very busy, sometimes a bit too hectic, and so the leadership of the big retail pharmacies is very engaged to think about COVID versus RSV and how to simplify the workflow, how to reduce medical errors, which is why those medical discussions that we're having so far give me significant hope that our products will be meaningful tools for our customers.
Thanks Stephen. And Gena, its Stéphane, on the upside and downside on the sales for this year. I think on the upside obviously, the COVID in Europe, as I just mentioned, we couldn't participate in the market last fall. The new tender is an opportunity for us to participate. Quite a number of doctors, hospitals, public health leaders have actually complained that the Moderna vaccine, given the higher efficacy reported for reduction of hospitalization was not available, especially for the elderly, for immunocompromised people, so that's an interesting upside.
Of course, the vaccination rate in the U.S. as we reported, the vaccination rate in the current ending season was lower than last year. As I said in my remarks, we need to do better to protect more people. And our team is actively already working in a cross-functional matter to address the VCR and increase the vaccination rate. And the other upside could be the RSV, both for market growth, as well as our share. How quickly can we get share from the current two solutions available.
On the downside, of course, the vaccination rate could be a downside. And the other one is of course timing of RSV launch, given we rely on regulators for the approval of products, and then the public health recommendations like CDC over different NITAGs in the different countries, that could of course delay launches and of course impacting sales. Thank you.
Hey. So I'll take the question. So on RSV vaccines [ph], we have not started the study yet. We are of course considering taking this into a Phase 3. It is in the clinic with Phase 1/2. We are waiting for the data to be able to move at the right time into the paediatric setting.
In terms of CMV, we don't have data yet on durability. Again, like we've done for other programs, when we share the data, we share the data, including durability, because it's very important. As you know, the benefit of young women is they have a very strong immune system. As we've shown in our INT programs, our T-cells work very well in terms of the vaccination technology of Moderna. So we really expect to have good durability over time. But again, we have to wait for the data to make such a determination. Thank you.
Good morning. This is Stéphane.
Thanks, Stephan. And on Australia, so a few things. First, I mean, our team has delivered a strong performance on COVID in Australia. We've been helping the government since the beginning of the pandemic. As you recall, we have announced a long-term 10-year partnership with the Australian government, and we are currently building a plant in Melbourne that is advancing quite successfully, and we are in active discussions with regulators around Australia for RSV approval.
The point I will make is that Australia, as you know is a quite different market commercially to the U.S. It's really mostly driven by the government, so I will compare Australia more to a European market than to the U.S. market. I don't think we can draw any positive or negative correlation in terms of what happened in Australia, COVID or RSV, to what will happen in the U.S. in the fall ‘24, winter ‘25.
Thank you so much for the questions today. Thank you for taking the time to be with us. We look forward to talking and seeing many of you in the coming days and weeks. I hope that you will have on March 27, Annual Vaccine Day in your calendar. We'll start the presentation at 9 a.m. Eastern Time. So have a great day and thank you for joining.