Michael Roman
Mike Roman
MMM
Yes, Andy, I'd start with Q1 looks to us a lot like Q4. So some of the dynamics that you're asking about are part of that. We talked about electronics stabilizing in Q4. So starting year-over-year comparison and stabilizing against that.
As we look forward, consumer retail, similar as well. We saw still softness in discretionary product categories, discretionary purchases. Consumer spending has been strong, but it's been shifting all through the year, as you know, to experiences, services and even food as inflation has impacted that. So we see that dynamic continuing to play out as we look forward.
If you look at the channel, I'd say broadly, the channels are stabilizing. Consumer, there was -- as we went through the first part of last year, there was aggressive reduction in inventory in the channel. That played out and it's more balanced as we come through fourth quarter as we look into Q1.
There was some cautious at the end of '23. At the end of the fourth quarter, we saw some caution in the channel in China and consumer. But I think they're fairly well balanced at this point. The one area where we continue to note some adjustments is in the industrial channels, and that's as supply chains continue to perform better, they're reducing their safety stock.
And that's been a steady. I think there's a little bit of caution as we go into the New Year in areas like Europe, Middle East, Africa, there's a caution about demand. China, as I already said. So -- but I think generally broader, I would characterize it as more stable and in line with what the expectations are.
Scott, just to add, the actions that we have been talking about all through '23, the actions to streamline our supply chain operations, simplify our go-to-market model, that streamlining supply chain operations. It was more than a restructuring.
This was about aligning our global supply chains to our go-to-market models, really optimizing what we do across plan, source, make, deliver, with a focus on -- and an expectation that we're going to drive improvements, improvements in service, improvements in costs, improvements in working capital and cash.
Monish said earlier, it's the actions we've taken about the way we operate, and it's an expectation we're going to continue to improve our execution. So there's a plan and strategy in data and data analytics gives us a basis for driving better visibility and improvement as well. So it's a -- it is part of that.
So we do expect to continue to drive improvement as we our guide for '24 has us, again, driving improvements in how we execute showing up in growth in earnings and expanded margins and another year of strong cash generation. So it's a -- it is an important part of that -- those actions that we took as we went through '23.
Yes, Deane, I think what you're looking at is the adjustment for PFAS, the exit of PFAS. If you recall, we're excluding the PFAS related men -- the PFAS manufacturing and related business as we report. And that was part -- the primary business for that was transportation and electronics. So that's where you saw that, maybe that adjustment.
Yes, Deane, we're committed to that what we announced to exit PFAS manufacturing by the end of 2025. And as I said, we're making good progress to that. We're working to help customers transition.
We will -- I think we talked about this on one of our earnings calls, we will not sell the equipment, we won't transfer any of the assets. We won't sell the business. We won't license our intellectual property. So we are going to exit and complete by the end of 2025. That's everybody's focused on that goal.
To wrap up, we are executing our priorities and delivering on our commitments. We will stay focused on continuing to improve our performance, optimize our portfolio and reduce risk, while using 3M science to create unique solutions for our customers. Thank you for joining us.