Brian Cornell
Brian Cornell
Target Corporation (TGT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
The hands are going up. Why don't we start right here?
Christine, I think that's a great place to start. And you can talk about the work we've done with our global sourcing teams to make sure we are evolving the way we buy goods across the country.
I'd only add that even in 2023, as we took a more conservative approach in discretionary categories, Christina, Rick, and Jill's teams certainly leaned into key seasonal moments to make sure that we had the right newness, the right affordability. As guests continue to celebrate those key seasonal moments. We'll do more of that in 2024 as we continue to make sure we adjust our flexibility to meet the needs of guests as they continue to change their shopping patterns. I'll go over on this side. Michael?
I'm happy to start, Michael, and we're not gonna provide you the waterfall today that breaks all those components apart, but everything you've talked about is baked into our plans. We certainly expect new stores to be a major contributor as we go forward. Michael talked about over a decade, we expect those 300 new stores to generate about $15 billion of incremental revenue. We'll continue to invest in remodels, and we've got a long track record of seeing those remodels deliver really good returns. We'll continue to lean into our own brands, our national brands and those great brand partnerships to make sure we're providing our guests with the newness and inspiration they're looking for.
We're very excited, as you heard from Cara, about the new Target Circle program. The benefits of that base program, Circle Card and the excitement around Target 360 and how it will extend our same day offering to guests, bring it right to their home within an hour. So, each one of those elements plays a key role. We're very excited about the enhancements we've made from an overall digital standpoint to provide more ease and inspiration and discovery for our guests. And both Michael and Cara talked about the upward potential we see in Roundel. So, they'll all play a key role as we go forward.
But I think it fundamentally starts with us understanding consumer trends, how consumers are shopping today and will shop differently going forward, and continue to meet their needs no matter how they wanna shop with Target, either in a physical store, in a digital environment, whether it starts with social or they're just walking into a great neighborhood Target store.
So each element is going to contribute to our roadmap for growth. And underneath all of that is that continued focus on retail fundamentals, the blocking and tackling that make sure we provide our guests a great physical and digital experience, making sure we're always in stock, that we leverage our proximity, that we provide great affordability and we're there to provide a great guest experience no matter how you shop with our brand.
Yeah. Micheal I'm happy to start, because I know it's a topic on everyone's mind. And when I think about shortage, when I think about shrink, I'll start with the word progress. I think we're seeing really solid progress and greater awareness at the national, state, and local level. And certainly, our teams have been working to ensure we provide a great guest experience and provide an experience that's safe for our team and safe for our guests. And Michael, I think our teams have made significant progress, but a lot more to come.
Michael, I'd only add that taking a very measured approach to setting priorities year-by-year. We see opportunities in stores, in supply chain, opportunities to better leverage technology to continue to build on that efficiency roadmap. So, year after year, we'll reset priorities to make sure we're laser focused on delivering those results and they'll build over time.
Cara, I'll let you take it away.
I just want to take this moment, and I hope many of our leaders back home are listening. And just thank the Circle team, the teams that have been working on this program for months and months, our tech teams have been supporting them and the entire effort that organization has put behind bringing this forward today. As you can tell, we are really excited about the future of Target Circle and think it's going to be a major growth driver and deepen guest relevance and bring new consumers into the Target franchise.
Ed, it's a great question. I'm happy to start. And actually, over the last couple of years, you've seen us move from a focus on small stores and we can talk about the performance there to more larger size stores as we see new opportunities and catchments where we haven't competed in the past. And we've been very pleased with performance of these new full-size stores, as well as the continued performance in urban centers and on college campuses. So, as we look at our pipeline going forward, we recognize there's opportunities for more full-size stores, extend our proximity, bring the best of Target into some new trading areas, and as part of that, you will see us continue to expand our food and beverage offering. Rick talked about the progress we've seen in food and beverage, in adding over $8 billion in the last couple of years, and the strength of a brand like Good & Gather. And for many of you who are tracking the consumer-packaged goods industry, there aren't a lot of $4 billion brands out there. And we launched that brand just prior to the pandemic, and we just continue to see the steady growth and how our guests react to the quality and value we bring with Good & Gather.
So, we're excited about the pipeline, it will be more larger size stores, there will be a broader food offering, and we're gonna be moving into trade areas where we can pick up incremental volume and market share because we, in many cases, just haven't competed in these trade areas in the past.
And I'd add three more points as we think about small formats, and we're here in Manhattan. Ten years ago, we really didn't have a brand presence in Manhattan. Today, we have over a dozen locations and we're in many of the different neighborhoods across the city. We've now been connecting with a consumer that we couldn't reach in the past, and we're gonna build a long-term relationship there. We're on many college campuses across the country. We know the value of building a connection with college students while they're on campus and the lifelong benefits that's gonna provide for our brand. As they move into their first apartment or have their first child and start their families.
And one of the other things, and I'll let Christina build on it, is the work we've done with smaller formats has allowed us to understand a lot more about segmentation and getting the assortment right geography by geography. So, as we move into new markets, we're gonna get much better at segmentation, having the right assortment that reflects the demand in those local markets. So, there have been three really important benefits of our small format journey. We're touching new cities where we didn't have a presence in the past. We'll build a lifelong connection with college students, and we've learned a lot more about segmenting our assortment.
Cara, one of the things you and I have talked a lot a lot is as we open up new stores, there's certainly a physical store component. We drive a lot of new revenue, but there's also benefits from a digital standpoint. As we introduce the brand to new communities. You want to expand on some of the things we've learned?
Well, Michael, this is a surprise. We've made it all the way to the last few minutes of our conference today and this is the first time we've had a question about gross margin.
Cara, why don't you start with partnerships? And Christina, why don't you talk about some of the learning that we have around how we build assortments?
Whatever works for them. I just finish up that discussion by saying, I think we've learned time and time again. We make really good decisions when we listen to the guests and listen to the broader consumer trends. Some of the things we rolled out recently, Starbucks for our drive-up guests. We didn't come up with that. It was the guest saying, “boy, if Target could only provide me with my favorite Starbucks product, I'd enjoy this drive experience even more.” “If you could take my returns, I would really be pleased.” So, we respond to what the guest and the consumer tells us, and that's gonna guide us for years to come.
We've got time for one final question. So I guess we're going right over here.
Michael, why don't you start with the second half and I'll wrap up with Chris' first question.
And Chris, from a market share standpoint, I can assure everyone here, we look at market share in a very granular way every single week across our entire portfolio. And we're going to be very focused on taking market share as we go forward. I'll step back and not just look at the last year, but the last several years. And if I go all the way back to the pre-pandemic, we've added billions and billions of dollars of revenue growth. I think, Michael, over $30 billion. And we've deepened our relationship with guests along the way. We've added more capabilities and features. We've deepened partnerships, and those are going to guide us to be even a more relevant retailer and partner for consumers and guests for years to come.
So we are very focused right now over not just the next year, but the next 10 years to continue to drive even more traffic to our stores and visit store site, to make sure we are a company that's driving top line growth because we know that's the best way to reward our shareholders and we are absolutely going to be razor focused on taking market share as we go forward.
And sitting here today, we know there's significant opportunities across virtually every aspect of our portfolio, whether it's the work that Jill's leading in apparel and home or the work Rick's doing from a food and beverage standpoint and a beauty and essential standpoint, whether it's physical stores or digital, we see a pathway for continued market share growth, and we'll look at that every single week and talk about it every quarter because we know that's critically important to our roadmap for growth.
So, I appreciate everyone who joined us in person today. Those of you who have joined us, through the video and the conference. Thanks so much. We look forward to seeing you and hearing from you during our first quarter earnings report. So, thank you so much.