Scott Smith
Scott Smith
Viatris Inc. (VTRS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thank you, Chris. Thank you for the question. And I think we're going to look at all manner of opportunities in order to build the portfolio. I think licensing, partnering, M&A for in-market assets is something that we're looking at. I also think we're looking at broader licensing agreements. In this case, we're looking at two Phase 3 assets, I believe, that are relatively derisked that have real blockbuster potential. I think Doretta said asymmetric -- the potential for asymmetric return, which I believe is the case here.
In terms of Phase 3 assets, we also have an ability to affect the development and the registration strategy and of course, the commercial strategy going forward. So there's some benefits, I think, to do anything at this stage. But certainly, we're going to look at all manner of opportunities and able to build the portfolio in the right way in the future.
And just one comment is, I think the solid base of the company that we built through ‘21, ‘22, ‘23 and into ‘24 really provides us that opportunity to look for appropriate business development opportunities to build off that base and grow in the future.
So I think, first of all, thank you for the question, Glen. Our capital allocation plan is not changing. Going forward, we plan to deliver return to shareholders through share buybacks, which we've initiated in '24, and done $250 million of dividends and then also looking for business development opportunities.
As I've said many times before, we're going to look at the core therapeutic areas, dermatology, GI, ophthalmology, but we're also going to be opportunistic outside of those areas to find assets that fit what we do best. And in terms of these two assets, I think they fit what we do very, very well. We have $2.5 billion in cardiovascular revenue. globally. And so we take a look at that. I think Selatogrel fits very well into the pre-existing expertise and drug, can play across multiple different therapeutic areas, including dermatology, GI, neurology, rheumatology. And so I think these two assets fit our portfolio very, very well. And again, we're going to look at our three core areas, but we're also going to try and be opportunistic to look for opportunities outside of that.
In terms of what we're going to cover in the R&D Day, we're going to do -- we're going to cover the -- we're going to do a deep dive into the two assets that we're talking about here, Selatogrel and Cenerimod. We're going to also talk about other opportunities in the pipeline that we have that we're developing, Eye Care, as well as some other things in the pipeline. So it will be a full pipeline review, but a main focus will be on Selatogrel and Cenerimod, including having some KOL thoughts and expertise.
Yes. Thank you very much for the question, Balaji. We'll be contributing just to start at the back. We'll be contributing as well. I'm not saying it's equal, but the two companies will be contributing, and Idorsia will be contributing up to $200 million in the development programs going forward.
In terms of product differentiation, I'd like to turn it over to Philippe Martin, our Head of R&D. Just to talk a little bit about some of the differentiation he sees at a very high level. And these are the type of things that we're really going to dig into when we get to the R&D Day later in March. And take a very strong deep dive talking about the assets differentiation, where we think they're going to play therapeutically, et cetera. But just to give a couple of initial thoughts on that, I'll hand it over to Philippe.
So just to add on to what Philippe said quickly before we go to the next question. And part of the excitement around Cenerimod is, Philippe and I have both been involved in the development, registration and commercialization of S1P molecules in the past. It’s a broad immunomodulatory drug that we can take a lot of different places. The initial indication is SLE. But as you know, there’s proof of concept of S1P molecules and things from multiple sclerosis, IBD, certainly in skin dermatologic conditions, including psoriasis. So it could be ripe for a real indication expansion once we get through the first indication. I think it could play in a lot of different therapeutic areas. So we’re excited about it as well.
So thank you for the question. Let me hand it over to Rajiv to talk specifically about the eye care division and Tyrvaya, and I'll comment afterwards.
Just a comment for me on the Eye Care division. We're very early days here, right? We're in the launch phase of Tyrvaya the first product. We're going to be launching the second product very, very quickly here. And there's a whole pipeline of assets, five or six further assets in development that we can bring forward. So we’re very hopeful and aspirational that the eye care division is going to be a very important part of our business as we go forward. We’re looking forward, as Rajiv said, we’re looking forward to see more data to see the effect of DTC and see a further ramp in the business, but we’re excited about the business overall.
Thanks, Ash. So in terms of Selatogrel, I believe there's approximately 6,000 patients already enrolled in the Phase 3 program. When we take a look at it from the Phase 2 data and what's going on in Phase 3, we think it's relatively derisked as an asset.
In terms of the detailed question you asked on patient self-diagnosis and self-injection and identification of patient subsets, that's kind of thing that we're going to get into, again, in R&D Day on March 27. We'll do a deep dive not only on the development programs, the regulatory strategies, but also sort of our commercial strategies as well.
Thank you, David, for the question there. So when I look back at the deals that I've been involved with and over my career, probably by well over 100 deals that I've worked on and been involved with. I would say the majority of them we're partnering, licensing of some sort. We have an extraordinarily strong base and global reach from a commercial perspective in this company. So I think the idea of in-licensing partnering assets is one that works very well for us. But we're going to throw a wide net. We're going to look at all manners to build the portfolio, use our capital correctly. We'll look at M&A, but we'll also look at licensing and partnerships.
At the end of the day, they'll probably be a little bit more of the latter, given that they're a little bit less initially capital-intensive and also sort of risk sharing to some extent. But again, what we're looking to do, we've got a very strong global commercial network out there, and we're looking to utilize that the best we can, bring in assets that fit what we do best, and we'll do a combination of partnering licensing acquisition with all the things that we need to do to build the portfolio.
So I think, first of all, from my perspective, the most difficult thing in this business is to find impactful assets that you can develop to become blockbusters that are patented with long-term revenue streams. That's what's hard. I think building the commercial structure around that is relatively easy if you have an asset that can really play and be impactful.
We're going to be opportunistic. We're going to look at our core therapeutic areas. We're going to look outside. We're going to find things that fit. We're going to find things that fit with the appropriate investment that we can make as a company. And so we're dedicated to, again, finding the kind of assets that can really, really drive business. Certainly, we've got a very solid base business that we see growing at a couple of percent a year as we move forward. and looking for things that can provide durable, sticky, long-term revenue stream for us, is what we're really after here. And we're going to do it in a smart and disciplined way. And we're going to find areas that we can be competitive and leverage off the existing infrastructure as much as we can.
Thank you very much. In closing, 2023 was an outstanding year for Viatris that has continued our momentum as we enter the next phase of our strategic plan. I expect 2024 will be a transformational year for our company, as we continue to deliver on our base business while building on our current strengths and adding new capabilities that will enable us to deliver on our future.
With our ability, beginning in 2024, to use our substantial free cash flow to both return capital to shareholders and to make strategic investments to grow our business, we are truly evolving into the strong and unique company that we have envisioned.
Before we close the call, I want to take one final moment to personally thank both Rajiv and Sanjeev for whom today is their last earnings call with Viatris. Rajiv has been with the company since 2007, and has been integral in building the company that we have today. He will remain as a member of the Board of Directors. Sanjeev has helped the company to successfully execute our Phase 1 strategy since 2020. Thank you both for your tremendous leadership and dedication and service to our company. Thank you.