Christopher O_Herlihy
Christopher O'Herlihy
Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. Sure, Steve. So on Food Equipment, projecting 3% to 5% growth next year, really on the back of a few different aspects. Firstly, as always, with Food Equipment, it's a very fertile environment for innovation. So we see several new product launches across all product categories. We would expect less channel destocking Food Equipment in 2024. And also I would say we have a continued recovery in service. As I think, service is about one-third of our revenues in food. We're the only major manufacturer with that captive service business and service is a business that's still in recovery pretty much from COVID, equipment has recovered, but we will see probably the final year of recovery in service in 2024, and all that is adding up to a 3% to 5% growth rate in food next year.
Good morning.
Yes. That's correct, Andy. In terms of specialty particularly, we're doing some strategic portfolio work there heavier, I would say amount of product line pruning than we normally expect in a normal maintenance environment. We're doing quite a bit more on specialty really to position that segment for long-term growth of 4% plus. So that's what's going on there, and we're pretty pleased with the progress around that.
On construction, it is very much a market story. I mean, obviously, all three main markets for us, North America, Western Europe, and Australia and New Zealand are all forecasting significantly declines in housing bills next year, that will be 11% in North America, mid-single digits in Europe and high-single digits in A and Z. So that's really what's impacting the construction business.
Thank you.
Good morning. Yes.
Well, I think welding, so we're not counting on a market acceleration, just to be clear. This is if you look at in a normal market environment, just assume for a minute, let's assume the market is flat. The contribution from new products and normal price very quickly gets you to something in the low-single digits. So I just want to be clear around that.
The other thing I'd say, just on the margins. We talked a little about the year-over-year inventory revaluations. That's what caused the margins to drop in the fourth quarter, below 30%. And we expect that to be back above 30% here in the first quarter as that one-time kind of year-over-year inventory impact is behind us. So we would expect margins to kind of remain in that 30% plus as we go through 2024. And as I said earlier, that's not unusual. Every one of our segments told us as part of this bottom up planning process that they are on target to improve their operating margin performance in 2024.
Yes. Thank you.
Good morning.
Yes. I think it is. I mean, as we say, in our four to seven calculus that we outlined at our Investor Day, you have a contribution from market – contribution from market penetration, and the largest contribution is actually from customer-back innovation. And that's what we're seeing here in 2024 really across most of our businesses. As we used to think about growth, 2% growth last year on top of 2021 – or 12% growth in 2021 and 2022 and targeting 1% to 3% here on the path to four plus, is kind of how are outlining this.
And I would say that it's a target and a goal that we're very confident on the basis that it's where the bulk of our divisions are spending their time. We're making progress, certainly more to do, but given the portfolio, given the fact that we've got plenty of room to grow in each segment, given the investments that Michael has been talking about that we've been making now for quite a few years in strategic marketing and innovation. We're really putting ourselves and building the muscle here to get into a position where we will grow 4% plus over the entirety of this next phase.
And I think in terms of just capability build, if you think about this in the way that – the way we leaned into front to back 80/20 in the last phase of our strategy, that's the way we're leaning into innovation in the next phase of our strategy. The same level of rigor, scope, and capability building that we applied to front to back 80/20 in the first phase. We are now applying to customer-back innovation here in this next phase.
And I would say we're very encouraged by the progress that we've seen on innovation over the last couple of years. It was a 1% contributor five years ago. It's now a 2% contributor on its way to 3% and beyond. And again, very encouraged by the progress that we're seeing across many of our divisions in terms of the qualitative work they're doing on innovation, but also in terms of the quality of the innovation pipeline across all seven segments.
Yes. I think in our overall guidance here of 1% to 3% organic, that's where you'll find all the major geographies. So North America, in that low single-digit, 1% to 3% range. And Europe kind of similar to North America, definitely we've seen some challenges on the construction side as you pointed out, but kind of you put it all together, it's in that one to three range. And then the China is more positive, but that's really driven by the automotive business, which is more than half of our revenues in China. So we expect another double-digit type growth for the auto business in China. And that takes China to kind of the mid single-digit range in 2024.
Sure.
Good morning.
Good morning, Mig.
Yes. So Mig, I would say that, we're probably seeing our growth across most of our portfolio. I would use, auto as an example, think about flat bills in 2024. We're talking about 3% to 5% on auto as an example. We've historically outgrown in food equipment. As I think, if you look at some of the comparisons and so on. Also with welding and with construction, large down market here in 2023 which we outgrew, so we have the capacity to outgrow across much of our segment. And with respect to investments, I think we've been making these focused targeted investments for some time now. This is not new news. This is something we've been doing for a few years to really position ourselves to grow at 4% plus across the enterprise over this next phase.
And I think the big driver of that, as we said a few times is customer-back innovation, is leaning on customer-back innovation that we've been working on for a couple of years, and we'll accelerate over this next phase. And that's really what will drive the outgrowth going forward. And that customer-back innovation opportunity resides in every segment on the basis of the level of differentiation in every segment, the share runway opportunity we have in every segment. So we would expect every segment in time to meaningfully contribute to that 4% plus organic growth.
Yes. Sure, Mig. So effectively, we are very much sticking to our disciplined portfolio management strategy, which is very consistent in terms of – we are certainly interested in high quality acquisitions where we can find them that extend our long-term growth potential to grow at a minimum 4% plus at high quality. That's the primary kind of lens, we look at acquisitions. We've been able to leverage the business model to improve margins. And so we certainly review opportunities on an ongoing basis, but we're pretty selective here about acquisitions, given the fact that we believe we've got a lot of organic growth potential that we're going to execute on here over the next few years.
If I think about MTS as an example of the typical – attractive candidate, we look at and ticked all the boxes in terms of strategic attraction, in terms of differentiation, solving customer pain points, opportunity to leverage the business model to improve margins. And having owned that business now for just over two years because we stuck to the characteristics that we believe in with respect to acquisitions. This is an acquisition that's turning on to be a home run and will be a great ITW business in the long-term. So it's a real blueprint for how we think about acquisitions and how we'd be thinking about acquisitions going forward.
Sure.