David Solomon
David Solomon
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure. Sure, Glenn. I mean, just at a base level, I'm pretty optimistic, given the way we've got the firm positioned. And there's no question that these capital markets and M&A activity levels have been depressed. As I've said before, I don't think that continues year-on-year-on year, and we really started to see, in the second half of this year, real improvement. As Denis highlighted, the M&A backlog saw a really strong replenishment and improvement in the fourth quarter. And I'd just highlight, and I know this is obvious, but I think it's worth stating, we put up $1 billion of M&A revenue. If the backlog is growing, that means we've got to replace the $1 billion that we put up, plus then have growth. And so, that's a very, very strong replenishment. And I would just say the level of strategic dialogue has definitely increased and we're seeing it across our platform. I'm encouraged by capital markets activity. I'm not going to say, it's running back to 10-year averages right away, but it has materially improved. I do think you're going to see some more meaningful IPOs in 2024. And we are just, across debt and equity issuance, seeing more activity, more engagement. At the end of the day, people had done a lot of funding that takes them out for a period of time, but they've got to start thinking about their capital structures and accept the reality of the market, and we're seeing that come through. So when I look broadly, it feels better. There's a lot going on in the world. And so I think one of our jobs is to always be a risk manager and worry 98% of the time about the 2% of things that can go wrong. So we're going to continue to take a cautious view in terms of the overall operation of the firm, but I do think the firm is incredibly well-levered to this pickup, and it feels better is the way I'd frame it.
Yeah, first of all, I think we made a lot of progress last year. And so if you look at what we accomplished, I think what we accomplished last year was pretty meaningful, especially given the environment. One of the things that happened is we pulled some stuff forward that we didn't expect to monetize in 2023 -- into 2023. And so to be clear, our focus is to get that to zero as quickly as possible. If you're operating inside this firm and you're operating in that business, you feel enormous focus on reducing that as quickly as possible. But we want to make sure that we manage expectations appropriately. We set a clear target over the next three years to get to zero. My guess is, we've got a good shot if we executed doing that quicker than that.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Sure. I mean, at a high level, what I would say, this quarter, intermediation activity was quiet, and particularly in the back half of the quarter, kind of late November and December, clients were quiet. If you look at the whole year, I don't think it's fair, I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I don't think it's fair to say the whole year is back to '19 levels. The overall activity levels were up and down during the year. We have a big diversified business. When our clients are active, we execute on it, we continue to grow the financing revenues, which make it overall more durable. But it was a quiet quarter, particularly the back half, in terms of intermediation. I don't expect it to continue at that pace. I think Denis' comments in the opening, we're seeing more activity in the first few weeks of the year. But we'll watch it. And as you know, that activity, particularly in that segment, can move up and down based on what's going on in the macro environment.
Denis said in his comments, we've got no other updates on the credit card partnerships other than what he stated. We continue to work with Apple on a partnership with them to serve our customers and to continue to reduce the drag from the partnership, and we continue to make good progress. And the drag in 2024 will be materially less.
Sure. So I appreciate the question, Mike, and obviously, we're very focused on it. It wasn't an A environment for our core business. In fact, I don't even think it was a B environment. When investment banking is operating at low levels, that is an impact overall. I do think that it's important to look at our core business of banking and markets, which is a very significant portion of the firm and do note, on a fully allocated basis in this environment, which was not a B-plus or an A environment, given the investment banking activity, it had a 12% ROE. We continue to believe through the cycle that that business is a mid-teens business. And so I don't think we're going to see -- stay at the level of activities that we've been at. We have that business positioned very well. And so you'll get some upside returns there in a better environment. And then secondarily, on Asset & Wealth Management, we continue to reduce the balance sheet. The balance sheet has been a drag on returns, but I think we've been pretty clear that we can drive the Asset & Wealth Management with a smaller balance sheet to mid-teens returns or better with a 25% margin. We're on that journey. We're making progress. I think we'll make very good progress over the next two years. And if you look at those two businesses, that's the vast, vast majority of the firm, and I think they can operate mid-teens. We've significantly reduced the other drags. We got a lot of it behind us in this year. That doesn't mean there won't be anything, but the drag from platforms in 2024 will be materially reduced from what it's been. And so I think we're making good progress in the medium-term is over the next couple of years, provided it's -- provided that it's a reasonable environment. And so I think you'll see good progress on the overall positioning of the firm over the next three to five years.
They absolutely do. I mean, when markets improve, they help the disposition. There's no question. I also -- when you look at the last two years, we've had real headwinds in terms of revenue against the balance sheet that we could have more of that, but on a much smaller balance sheet in 2024. With a better market, you actually might have some benefit to revenue performance, but we're focused on reducing that broadly. You see you have more transparency now in the platforms as we continue to close on GreenSky, move GM to held for sale. And so you have more transparency on that. We think the drag will be significantly reduced in 2024. When we're comfortable providing more specific color on that, we will provide it.
But small in the overall context of the firm and the firm's performance.
Thank you.
Well, at a high level, that comment is -- looks over the past four years that we've grown our Asset Management business -- Asset & Wealth Management business, and it highlights in the alternative raising over that period, this initial period of investment, what the mix has been between wealth, the institutional client base or other channels like third-party wealth, retail, et cetera. When you look at our strategy, Dan, we -- if you go back 20 years, most of our fundraising for these activities came from our private wealth channel and the percentage of the money we managed was much higher than 40% from private wealth. So as we continue to invest in broad institutional partnerships in the pension community, the sovereign wealth community areas where historically we had not raised a lot of alternative funding, that percentage of wealth funding will probably decrease, but I'm not going to speculate exactly where it will go. At scale, the economics associated with all these alternatives are extremely attractive. They're attractive in the private wealth channel and they're attractive in our institutional partnerships. But as I think you all know, they're not exactly identical. And people that allocate or enter a partnership with you and allocate $10 billion definitely have a different economic proposition than somebody that's giving you $50 million or $100 million. And that's been consistent in the business for a long, long time. So we're continuing to scale the business. We have real margin targets in the business. I think we've got lots of opportunities and we're still in the early stages of using the platform of Goldman Sachs to cement and invest these broad distribution channels for the benefit of our scaled Asset & Wealth Management platform. And I'm confident we'll continue to make good progress.
I'll start, and Denis, might add some comments. We've always said that when there's activity to support our clients, that's our primary focus on where we can allocate capital. We've increased the amount of capital allocated to our franchise -- our client franchises over the course of the last five years. And I think one of the reasons why our big broad Global Banking & Markets franchise has performed on a relative basis in different environments the way it's performed is we've been very, very focused on making sure we have the capital and the financial resources to serve our client base well. Where we see opportunities, we will continue to deploy capital there. That's in our broad capital planning program. We do generate a lot of capital from earnings. And to the degree that we don't see opportunities to deploy it with our clients, we will return it to shareholders. At the moment, we're taking a more conservative posture around that, just given some of the uncertainty around Basel III endgame. Although again, I think that's going to continue to evolve. And I also think we have a long track record of being very, very nimble with our ability to deploy. So we're going to continue to focus on making sure we've got the right resources to serve our clients. And as we generate capital, we have confidence in our capital position that we'll return capital to shareholders. And we've been very focused, as you've seen, on growing the dividend, and we plan to continue to do that.
There is an operating leverage story, which is one of the reasons why the margin in our Asset & Wealth Management business will continue to improve. When we were running an on-balance sheet business with lots and lots and lots of on-balance sheet position, the number of people that you need to manage those positions and serve those positions, creates a business that's scaled differently than a traditional fund management business that you would see on someone else's alternative platform. And so we're early in the journey.
I'll just give a simple example. We went out last year, a year-and-a-half ago, and raised our first growth equity fund. We used to do that business on-balance sheet. We have lots and lots of positions, and therefore, a very, very broad team to service that. We raised our first fund. You need a smaller team to manage that fund. But when you go and you raise your second fund, you don't need to increase the scale of the team. And so there's real operating leverage in that, and that's part of our margin improvement story in Asset & Wealth Management over time. So the answer is, yes. I don't want to overstate this because it's not a massive part of the story, but it is a place where we have some operating leverage and improvement as we continue to move from balance sheet into fund form.
Good morning, Gerard.
Sure, Gerard. At a high level, I'd point to a couple of things. But I'd start with the fact that that business is a scale business, and we happen to be in the privileged position of being one of a handful of firm that really does operate those businesses at scale. And I think that's just important as a baseline. But I think there are a handful of things that we've done well. First, One GS and our One GS Ethos. If you go back historically, we operated these businesses much more in silos with much less coordination across broad client experience. And clients would come into the firm in different places and get different experiences. And we spent a lot of time, and this goes back to 2019 really, thinking about how do these clients experience the firm? And we went out, we talked to them, we listened to their feedback. They really wanted to deal with the firm as a partner, one partner. I think we've made through One GS and that ethos, real progress in dealing with these very large clients in this business in an integrated approach that's improved their experience. And because it's improved their experience, they feel more partner-like with us, and therefore, that's improved our wallet share.
Secondarily, we've become a much bigger financer of their activities. And when you finance their activities, you get rewarded in other ways through the ecosystem. And number three, we've also tried to really take the same way we have with investment banking clients for a long view, a very long-term approach to transacting with them. They need our help sometimes with things that aren't that economically attractive. We want to be there. If you do that, you do that consistently, you wind up getting opportunities that are more attractive. And so I think those three things combined with our scale platform have really helped us. When we look at our wallet shares, we continue to spend a lot of time.
John and I spend a lot of time, and Denis, too, talking to these clients in addition to the people running the business, asking for their feedback. And as we take that feedback, we'll continue to make adjustments to make sure we can serve them with real excellence. And as you saw from the presentation that we put up, one of the things that we're really focused on is how our One GS operating ethos allows us to serve our clients with excellence and distinction. It's a big, big tenet of what we're trying to do.
Well, it's scale. The Americas is the biggest part of the activity level. And just given the resilience of the US economy, I think you've seen a material pick up there, proportionally that's broader than other places. But we are seeing more activity across Europe, particularly strategic dialogue. I'd say, the one place where things are slower, obviously, is in Asia with respect to China. And just given the nature of economic activity there, where things are positioned, that still seems slower, both on both the M&A side and the capital market side. But those are comments that make it a high-level, Gerard.
So I appreciate the question, Mike. As you highlight, at the end of last week, Bayo sold his business to BlackRock. Bayo still is the Lead Director. That deal won't close until sometime in the third or fourth quarter. Bayo is the Lead Director. We have a governance process in place. Our Board has met and at the appropriate time, we'll make announcement as to the transition. But at this point, other than the fact that because of the sale, it will create a transition. I have nothing more to say other than Bayo is still the Lead Director, and we'll manage the transition in an orderly process and no surprises.
Well, we're always adding people to our Board, Mike. But I'm not going to make comments. I'm not going to make forward comments about our governance process and our Board looks at this at the time that the Board takes action. We announced a clear transition. I'll be happy to answer questions and talk about it.