Gerardo Norcia
Gerardo Norcia
DTE Energy Company (DTE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Morning Shar.
Yes, Shar, I'll take the non-utility assets. Certainly, we're happy with all our assets there, but we're always looking for opportunities to -- there was an opportunity to create incremental value for our investors. We would take that opportunity in terms of optimizing the portfolio. But I would say at this moment, certainly, we don't have any incremental cash needs in our plan. And so there really isn't anything imminent at this time.
Sure. So, if you're referring to a potential electric rate case, we're looking to make a filing late in the first quarter, early second quarter. I would say that most of that filing will be about the capital investments we're making to upgrade the grid and transition to cleaner energy. So, again, it will be a CapEx-driven filing is what we expect at this point.
Thanks Shar.
Morning. Hey Nick.
If we did pursue some form of optimization, obviously, the cash proceeds would go to offsetting debt issuances and even potentially the repurchase of some equity. But as I said, there's really nothing imminent at this point in time.
So, we certainly like to own assets because we think it's much more accretive both for our customers in terms of providing lower cost. I think we've been able to show over and over is that ownership provides lower cost to our customers. And also, it provides a greater benefit to our investors in terms of EPS growth. So, we prefer to own.
I think you'll see in the IRP. In the IRP settlement, we did agree to share some ownership, and it breaks out somewhere between two-thirds and one-third ownership between -- us owning two-thirds and others only one-third in IRP piece.
I think the legislation also did not talk about ownership, which we was neutral on that point. So, we are pleased with that. And in addition to that, it also provided for compensation mechanism for PPAs that will give us some upside as we sign PPAs.
Thanks Nick.
Hey Jeremy.
Yes, Jeremy, if you'll recall, we updated -- we didn't provide an update at EEIX, we're awaiting the outcome of a rate case to make sure that our capital plans were supported in which that happened. And so when we updated in December, it really reflected the IRP settlement and the new legislation were both in flight.
And so I would say the combination of those two events, significant events created incremental opportunity in our clean generation space. It accelerated our journey in terms of building out renewables as well as a battery system. So that's really what drove the increase.
Yes. Right now, we're showing a $1 billion to $1.5 billion investment over the next five years, which is pretty consistent with our prior five-year forecast. So, we really haven't made any significant change there just yet.
Yes, I would say that in terms of carbon capture and storage, we're well advanced on 3 projects, and we're finalizing our arrangements with counterparties and some conditions precedent there to make sure that we got a viable transaction. But I would say it's feeling better than 50-50 that we're going to start executing on some capital there in that new business line. So, pretty exciting.
They're small projects. Each of them are -- each of the three are anywhere between $50 million to $100 million, pretty simple projects that doesn't require a lot of pipeline, pretty short pipelines. Most of the pipelines are right on the property of the customer. So, as the wealth.
So, we're deep into it and we'll continue to give you updates on that. But it's a nice synergy with our utility -- electric utility because we're -- as we think about future power plants and using natural gas, we're going to need to capture the carbon and store it. So, I think dipping our toes into this new business line creates value for investors, but also creates value for future utility investments that we'll need to make.
Thank you.
Morning. Hey Durgesh.
Yes, we've -- just let me take the storm expense. We've certainly have increased our storm expense in our planning process as we've seen storms increase over time and the cost that, that brings. So, we feel pretty comfortable about the plan that we're carrying right now.
And as you know, we also carry one standard deviation of whether, for example, in the winter, warmer than normal weather and/or in the summer, one standard deviation of cooler-than-normal weather. So, that's how we're planning.
And at this point in time, we feel pretty good about our plan. We're moving along and right on track. I think the storm that came in January consumed some of the storm expense budget. But of course, as you would expect, we're working to replenish some of that so that we can carry a full summer storm budget. So, that's really where we're at with that.
Thanks Durgesh.
Morning.
Well, certainly, our voluntary renewable plan is progressing really well, David. I'll just tell you that we've got 2,500 megawatts described in our voluntary program and 2,600 in our five-year plan. So we're -- it's likely that over time, it will increase.
We'll -- obviously, our next filing will address the next couple of years of in-service requirements for our large industrial customers that we signed up and commercial customers. So, it could potentially be upside to our plan in the future as we continue to update our plan. So, hopefully, that helps.
I would say that our current plan does anticipate incremental build-outs for the IRP legislation. So, I told you our five-year plan for voluntary is 2,600 megawatts. We have an additional 1,800 megawatts that comes in as part of the IRP and a five-year plan. So, that's all built in to the $7 billion clean generation number that you see on our slides.
In terms of PPAs, we're going to have to continue to assess what value -- the incremental value that will bring as we go along here. But it could bring incremental value.
Morning Andrew.
And in the gas business, we're fully recovered there. We're in a good position there.
Hey Michael.
Michael, it's moving in the right direction in terms of sort of narrowing the variables that we'd be looking at for PBR. So, we felt that, that was quite constructive in the latest release from the commission on that process. We still feel it will be a symmetrical sort of benefit and incentive to perform. So, we feel good about that.
That's still holding together. And we expect that there's really no time line stipulated for the conclusion of the process. So, we're thinking sometime between the middle of the year to early next year is when this process will conclude. But we're feeling that it will -- it will be a productive process and a well-balanced process.
Morning Sophie.
I would say, in the first five years, that's correct, Sophie. We've -- the IRP and the legislation is reflected in the five-year plan. And we'll continue to update that as we go forward.
Now, beyond the five-year plan, there is some further acceleration that we could see, but we'll continue to update that each and every year and hopefully, in November between November and the end of the year.
Thank you.
Morning Julien.
So, again, the ownership component is reflected in our capital plan, the $7 billion component of clean energy generation that's in our plan. The financial compensation mechanism, we'll have to see what levels we sign the PPAs, obviously, as you know, it's a -- the price that we signed the PPAs for. So, as we sign those, we'll continue to update our plan, but it will provide some incremental value in our plan as we go forward, if that's what you're asking?
Yes, I would say that it's not imminent, some sort of optimization of our are rent portfolio. We like the returns. We like the cash flows from it. And actually, the IRA Inflation Reduction Act has been quite beneficial to that business from an ITC, investment tax credit perspective. It's made projects more attractive and higher return. And we're also seeing positive movement in some of the markets, like the Federal market moved in a very positive direction and our renewable fuel standard that is.
And in California, the California Air Resources Board is looking to tighten up the carbon intensity targets. So, I think as that plays out, that will provide even more upside in those markets as we see them today.
Thank you, Julien.
Yes, we're still seeing unlevered returns and I would say, north of 10% unlevered after tax, so in the teens, low teens.
Morning Anthony.
Anthony, we put five miles underground in last year in 2023, and it went really well. And what we're doing is proposing that we continue to do more. This is going to take a few years to ramp, Anthony, as we kind of work with our commission. We actually had the commission staff looking at some of the undergrounding that we did in the last few days.
And so they -- I think there's a process here to make sure that we're working together with our commission, come up with a reasonable plan. I would say the key part of it is we need to ensure that on an NPV basis, undergrounding is going to be least equivalent or better than putting it up in the air. We've got 19,000 miles of infrastructure to replace that's very old. It's a 4.8 kV system.
So, a huge opportunity from a customer perspective to improve infrastructure for the future. And we'd like to put as much of that underground as we can, but we're going to have to prove out the concept. So, we're in the early stages of proving it out and to ourselves and then secondly, to our commission. So, that's where we're at with it.
I think it's going to take a few years before we can ramp it, but we feel pretty good about how smoothly the first five miles went. It's all directional bore through very highly congested urban areas. So, a very cool project. More to come on that.
Thank you, Anthony.
I'll let -- Ryan, thanks for the question. I'll let Dave sort of elaborate, but I'll start by saying that we prefer to own the assets for really two reasons. One is if you look at the value to our customers, it's much more affordable for our customers for us to own the assets.
And then secondly, for investors, it provides a much greater significant EPS growth opportunity if we own. So, we don't see converting any current ownership to PPAs. Dave, did you want to add to that?
Are you referring to carbon capture and storage, Ryan?
Yes, we are. We've got three transactions that are well advanced with large carbon dioxide producers, and we're looking to capture that CO2 source and stored underground essentially under property. These are very short pipelines, a couple of thousand feet each less than a mile.
So, we're looking to finalize those arrangements and also satisfy some of the technical conditions precedent that we want to accomplish before we get too far into that business.
Thanks Ryan.
Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'll just go by saying we're feeling great about 2024 and also our long-term plan as well as our position for future years. Have a great morning and stay healthy and safe.