Adam Schechter
Adam Schechter
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah, hi, Jack. So, if you look at the pipeline for M&A that we have, it remains very strong. As you say, there's not deals the size of Ascension necessarily in health systems, but there's quite a few health systems that when you add them up, obviously, become meaningful. In fact, if you look at our longer term guidance, historically we've said that we'd have 1% to 2% growth from inorganic means. We have now said we believe it's going to be 1.5% to 2.5%, reflecting that we believe that there is significant opportunity before us.
We also mentioned partnerships with regional and local laboratories, and I think that there could be some additional partnerships in that areas, but as I think about capital allocation in general, I first thought that we're committed to our dividend. We then look to do as many of these hospital, local, regional laboratory deals as we can do because they're so sensible to do. They return across the capital very quickly. They're accretive in the first year, and we know how to do them really well.
And then if there's something that is strategic to us, and one of our strategic priorities, we would look to do those, albeit we're not looking at anything of massive size, but after that, we then look at our share buybacks, which we continue to believe is a good way to use our funds as well.
Yeah. So, Jack, let me first talk about margins just in general. So if you look at 2023, the margins were basically flat versus prior year. If you look at some of the things that we had to overcome, they were pretty significant, like COVID work that was significantly less this year than the prior year, but in addition to that, the hospital deals that we've done, in particular in the fourth quarter, had an impact on our margins, because although there are freedom in the first year, they're dilutive in the first couple of months as we do the integration until we have the ability to reduce costs to a level that makes sense over time. So we saw some impact from that in the fourth quarter as well.
I feel really good about our margin accretion as we go into 2024 and we've said that we expect the margins to increase, but we also expect them to increase in each of the businesses, not just diagnostics, but also biopharma. Within biopharma, we expect them to be increased not just in Central Laboratories, but also in early development. So we continue to look for ways to reduce costs through a launchpad initiative. We're committed to reducing costs by $100 million to $125 million this year and each year for the next several years.
In addition to that, our volume growth is helping us significantly. In particular, as we see growth in biopharma, that's going to help us with our margins. Despite the fact that we still have COVID overhang in 2024 versus '23, that we're continuing to improve the margins in our hospital deals, we're expecting to see the margins being accretive and growing this year, which to me is just a good sense of the underlying growth. With particular focus on price, I would say price is net neutral when you look at overall price. There is some benefit to mix, and we continue to see mix helping us there.
Yeah, I'll talk a little bit, and I'll ask Glenn to provide some additional context. Our Biopharma laboratory service business remains a leader in both segments. We're a leader in Central Laboratory. We're also a leader in early development. Central Laboratory performed very well in the fourth quarter, and we expect is going to continue to perform well as we look at 5.5% to 7.5% growth in 2024 across the segment.
But early development, we expect to continue to improve as we go through the year and we also expect early development to grow about the same amount as the overall guidance that we're giving for biopharma. A lot of the early development growth we expect will be in the second half of the year as we continue to see improvement and ramp up. Our RFPs look good in both segments. The largest segment, obviously, by far, is the Central Laboratories.
The RFPs look good. Our win rate looks good. Big Pharma is continuing to send us a lot of RFPs that feel great. If you look at early development, the RFPs look good. The win rate looks good. What we've faced are some cancellations that are well above normal levels and we expect as we go through 2024 that, that will normalize and get us back to the RFPs and the win rate being positive for us, and therefore providing us with growth.
Yeah. So Kevin, right now, the supply is not an issue. We have as much supply as we need. I feel very good about, as we go through this year and into the future, we have multiple suppliers now. We've certainly seen some of the pricing come down in the market, which is a good thing for us because NHP cost is largely a pass-through for us. We pass the benefit on to our clients. So you might see the revenue come down for us because the cost is coming down, but it shouldn't have any significant impact. In fact, it can help us a little bit when it comes to our margins.
Sure Erin. So first of all, I would say, we came into 2024 with significant momentum. The diagnostics-based business grew 8% in the fourth quarter. Biopharma grew 7.1% in the fourth quarter. So I feel good about the guidance that we're providing for each of those businesses. So for diagnostics, it's 3.2% to 4.8%, midpoint of 4% growth. Biopharma, it's 5.5% to 7.5%, and midpoint of 6.5% growth. So very strong revenue growth.
We are comfortable also saying that there'll be margin improvement in each of those businesses. That's despite the fact that there is going to be an impact in Diagnostics from weather and we expect it to be $0.10 to $0.15 in the first quarter and, therefore, the first quarter will be the hardest quarter for us of 2024, but the numbers I just gave you and the ranges that I gave you, midpoints, already, we already know what the weather was in January. So it already contemplates what happened in January.
Yeah. So, Erin, we continue to support SALSA, and we continue to be optimistic that SALSA will get passed. We have support from both sides of the aisle, and ACLA, our trade organization, is working really hard to get that legislation passed. If it doesn't get passed, then we'll try to see if there's a way to get another year's delay. In our guidance, longer term guidance, we assume that there will be an impact from PAMA.
So therefore, we continue to say, if it's not this year, it'll be next year. If it's not next year, it'll be the following year. Until the SALSA legislation is passed, then, I'm not going to take a lot of comfort that it could be another year delay or so forth. We're going to really work hard to have that passed.
With regard to LBTs, we do not support the FDA's kind of what they're currently thinking about in terms of taking legislation that was created for the device industry and applying it to the diagnostic industry. We were very supportive of that, and that was legislation that would give FDA oversight of laboratory-developed tests. We think that's the right path to go. We'll continue to work with the trade organization to see if we can make progress there, but we think legislation that is fit for purpose for the diagnostic industry is the right path forward.
Yeah, so what I would say, Stephanie is, number one, we have momentum in the diagnostics business and the momentum is coming from our base core business. We see it in both routine and esoteric testing. We have four therapeutic categories that we focus on that have higher growth in other specialty areas and we're going to continue to focus on those areas, oncology, women's health, autoimmune disease, and neurology and I believe that those are going to help us continue to grow because those parts of the market should grow disproportionately as we continue to go into the future.
At the same time, there's no doubt that the acceleration of the hospital and local laboratory partnerships has enabled us to grow faster than what we've grown in the past and the good news is we have a strong pipeline of those as we go into the future. That's why we've raised the longer-term guidance for inorganic growth to 1.5% to 2.5%. Historically, we would have said 1% to 2%. So I think all those things combined give us momentum when it comes to the diagnostic volume.
Yes. So if you look at what we've done with Ovia, we think it's a terrific way for us to have a digital capability in a very important core therapeutic area that we're focused on, women's health. And it really is what they've offered a first of its kind fertility family building benefit that we will be bringing to customers. The service offers care navigation and concierge services that helps individuals throughout their family building journey.
And, we can offer it directly to patients if they like. We can offer it to employers. We have a very strong employer group, Laboratory Employer Services and this is just one of many offerings that we're going to be bringing to the marketplace, but because women's health is so important and because we are so focused on it, this is just another avenue for us to help in the women's health arena.
Yeah, absolutely and I'll start broadly about our biopharma business and then I'll talk about the individual segments as well. So broadly, we had a good quarter of $1.26 billion, which we said in third quarter we expected the fourth quarter to be improved and obviously it was improved. If you look at our trailing 12 months, it's about $1.04 billion and we believe that that's -- you want to be around $1.05 billion to $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion is typically what we're targeting. I feel confident we'll be able to get there as we go through this year. We dropped off a really strong quarter in the fourth quarter of 2022.
If I break apart the businesses and we start with a much larger business, which is the Central Laboratory business. Our RFPs are very strong. Our book-to-bill is very strong. Our win rate is very strong. We're not seeing as many cancellations as we're seeing in the other part of business because it's focused more on larger pharma. Although there are some cancellations there, there always are, it's not nearly as large as what we're seeing in early development.
In early development, I feel comfortable as we go through 2024 because our RFPs coming into us are still very strong. Our win rate remains good. I feel good about where our win rate is. What's happened there is, there's been a lot of cancellations. I think there's two reasons for that. One is I think with NHP pricing the way it was, some very small biotech companies that got in line just decided to say we're just not going to do it now and then I also think that there are other pressures with smaller biotech companies that they're going through financially.
As I look at this year, I feel good about both businesses and in early development, we're actually even seeing a larger amount of our business come from large and middle-sized pharma versus early pharma or early biotech and I think as we kind of make that transition to get more and more larger pharma in early development, we'll be able to even have a stronger book-to-bill moving forward, but net-net, I feel confident in both of the businesses, the ranges that we've provided and where we are today with the book-to-bills.
I'll give some context on that, and I'll ask Glenn to add on. So if you look at the diagnostic business, I'd say the first thing is if you look at fourth quarter, you saw very strong revenue growth, about 8%. If you look at margin versus prior year, it was down slightly, about 30 basis points.
What drove that primarily was that there were some minor things like increased health care costs and so forth, but it was driven primarily by the hospital deals that we did, that although they're accretive in the first year, in the first several months, they're typically diluted and we did several of those deals at the end of last year.
As we come into this year, we're confident in the margin accretion for several reasons. One is obviously PAMA's been delayed. So that would have been a real headwind that we're not facing this year. We pushed that off into 2025. If you look at our volume increases, that's going to help us. The volume is going to be strong. If you look at the hospital deals, that we said extension would continue to give us some margin improvement over the next several years. Each of the hospital deals get a bit better as you go year-over-year. So we'll get some improvement from the hospital deals continuing to improve.
We're also going to be looking to reduce costs across the enterprise, but a significant amount because of the size is in diagnostics of $100 million to $125 million and when you look at all those things together, we're expecting inflation to be about 3%, which is more than a typical rate than it's been in prior years. So if you put all that in, that's for our inflation of our people costs and so forth, should be around 3%, 3.5%.
You put all those together and that's why we're confident that even though we have a headwind from COVID, that's fairly significant, about $130 million, we'll still be able to get some margin improvement in the diagnostic business.
Sure. And it wasn't specific to fourth quarter, although there was an increase in the fourth quarter. We saw it throughout last year and we think there were several reasons. One, when there was an NHP supply issue, people were getting in line to run their NHP trials well in advance of what they typically would. By the time it was their turn, they would look and say, you know what, we're not going to do that trial. Either they reprioritized the pipeline, they decided the NHP costs were higher than what they had budgeted for, they decided just not to move forward at that time.
The second thing is the funding in smaller biotech has been more difficult. So they're choosing their trials very carefully in the compounds that they move forward, but as we go forward, we're seeing, the RFPs look good as well as our win rates look good.
So, the cancellations we believe are going to normalize. We're also starting to see a shift in our business a bit more towards mid-size to larger pharma as some of the smaller biotech have had those cancellations. They have less cancellations typically than the smaller ones. So that's why we think, we're going to see improvement as we go through this year.
Yeah, sure. So as I came up with early development business, I've been saying for quite some time that we would like to see a shift towards more mid to larger size and I want to be clear, it's not significant. It's still more in the smaller biotech than it is to the mid to larger size. It's been something that we've been working on for multiple years now and we're seeing some progress, but also a part of it is that cancellations are occurring more often in the smaller biotech companies.
So we were purposely moving that direction. There is a reason that we're able to move a little bit faster, but we still have work to do there. But over time, I would like to see that mix move more towards mid-size to larger format.
Yes. So I'll take the second one first, which is, we feel confident in our contracts that we had put a few in place last year, but this year, there's no major expiration. So we feel good about where we are and there's not much risk in the guidance range as we go through this year and the next.
But with regard to the ranges and certain things that go to the upper end of the funnel, obviously, the bottom of the revenue range, obviously, the diagnostic volume looks great and we're expecting that to continue. The weather is a bit of what's taking us a little bit back to the midpoint. So the weather is 10% to 15% impact, but the volume continues to be very, very strong.
The rate in which we integrate the hospital deals will help us and we have very good track record of doing that. But the good news is there's not as much volatility this year as there's been in years in the past with COVID. So I feel good about the range. And in fact, the EPS range, we've narrowed it versus what that means would have been last year, the year before that, because there is less volatility and then I'd say in the biopharma services business, I would say that the strength we have and momentum is great. The thing that we're watching carefully are when the cancellations, in particular in early development, start to come back to more normal.
Yes. So if you look at the esoteric testing volume, we continue to have a significant focus on the four therapeutic areas that we talked about. And we did, in fact, see in the fourth quarter and the full year that esoteric testing volume grew slightly faster than the routine, but it's strong to note that both of them grew strongly and we expect them to continue to both grow strongly, but we would expect esoteric to grow at a slightly higher rate in both volume and the volume obviously is at higher dollars. So maybe a little bit faster in the dollars.
Yeah, no, I wouldn't use any one quarter for the margins. We expect the margins to actually improve across the business, across both diagnostics and biopharma. Diagnostics in the fourth quarter was impacted to some degree by the hospital integrations that we're doing, that there were several new ones. And although they're accretive in the first year, they were dilutive in the first couple of months. We expect that to improve as we go into next year.
As we go to next year, there's still a COVID overhang in the diagnostic business, probably about $130 million or so, but even with that, we expect to get some slight margin improvement in that business and overcome that.
Okay. So in closing, I know we're at the end of the hour. I just want to thank everybody for joining us today. I want to thank our team here at Labcorp for their focus and dedication and everything that they do to serve the patients that we all are trying to do the best we can to improve health and to improve lives. And we look forward to sharing more with you as we go through the year. Thank you.