Laxman Narasimhan
Laxman Narasimhan
Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thank you for the question. Let me start with the answer here. Our brand in China is known as Xing Ba ke and it uplifts the everyday for millions of customers in China. And as Rachel said, our business is also strong, 5% comp in Q4. If you look at the first half of the year versus the second half of the year, the growth difference in the second half was 20% higher than the first. One thing you should know is that if you just look at the morning daypart, the morning daypart for our business in China now is higher than it was pre-COVID.
We have very strong local innovation. And to answer your question, if you look at the transactions that Rachel mentioned, we're very comfortable with the food and beverage transactions. And what we see there, including the price realization that we have. The ticket that you mentioned specifically points to merchandise, and what we had in the store, which we are still working through. But we feel very good about the competitive position of beverages, the competitive position of food.
We feel very good about the cash returns of the stores that we are opening. They're very strong. The team has done a wonderful job in ensuring that the cost of builds are low, with the productivity that we have been able to accomplish in our stores. We feel good about the overall returns that we are getting there. And I'm heartened by the -- by how the business is coming together despite all the headwinds that have been there for the last couple of years.
I'll take the first question and hand over to Rachel for the second. On the first question, clearly, we're reading all these statements about the macro uncertainty, and it's clear that we are navigating the uncertain economies and markets around the world. But rather than talking about the economy in general terms, let me just speak about what we see with the Starbucks customer. Customer demand for us remains strong. We're not really seeing any change in the sentiment in our customer base at this time. And I think what it does is it reflects the strength of the Starbucks brand globally, it reflects the loyalty of our customers, it reflects our position in their routine and it also reflects the long-term durability of this business.
Now we, of course, watch all of this extremely carefully. Unlike 2008, which is the number that people have been touting around, we have a widely more diversified set of channels that we participate in. We have digital relationships worldwide with over 75 million customers in terms of their last 90-day activity. But we can reach a multiple of those digitally. So, it's a much larger universe than what we would traditionally refer to as just our 90-day active users.
So, we have the ability to reach our customers, and we have multiple levers in terms of how we deal with any uncertainty that we might see, and that's true as well in the U.S. So, I feel good about the momentum we have. We're obviously extremely watchful and humble about where we are, and we'll do everything we can to exceed the expectations of our partners and our customers. But we do have multiple levers to play. Rachel?
If I could just add to this. Growth is clearly a real enabler of leverage, and you'll see that reflected in the various lines in our P&L. Additionally, we see efficiency opportunities. And later this afternoon, we're going to detail out a $3 billion savings program and efficiency over three years, with a big portion of that coming from outside the store in the supply chain, in particular, and you'll see that a portion of that is certainly coming out in our COGS line. And so, this gives us the real confidence as we look ahead around the kind of efficiency that we have, that gives us the ability to invest in the business and at the same time, deliver the progressive margin expansion that Rachel talked about.
If I can just add one thing to it. I think what has happened over the last several years is how much this business has evolved in order to meet the customer where it's at. And I think you're seeing that as well in traffic, in transactions, but also in what we're doing in purpose-defined stores, and later this afternoon, we're going to talk a bit about how we're going to lean in even further around how we meet customers where they are at.
Let me start and then Rachel can add to it. One of the things that the team has worked on incredibly on over the last year or so is putting in place a much stronger operating foundation in the stores. And I'm very proud of the progress that they are making. And that includes how we deal with the processes in the drive-thrus. You're seeing real improvement in terms of out of the window of time in the drive-thru. The team has put operating practices across these various formats. And I feel very good about the progress that they are making in that area.
I think in terms of the automation or the equipment that we have also brought into the store, that has also been a driver of some of the changes that we have seen. I think just ahead of the summer, we were able to get in the portable cold foam blender into stores, which really helped our partners deal with the growth in volume on beverages in the summer. So, a combination of operating practices, the equipment that we are putting in place, all of that adds to much stronger operational foundation in our store, and we expect that to continue.
John, if I could take that on. Thank you for your question. We have more opportunities than what we have realized, but we make very good progress. If you look at staffing and scheduling and how we are working on that, I think we've made material progress in that area. And I think as a consequence of that, you've seen attrition levels now lower than where they were pre-COVID. You see tenures of partners in the store increase.
And that's going to continue. I think if you just look at what we've been able to achieve with the investments that we've made in our partners with wages and other benefits that have been provided to them. If you take a look at the take-home income, on average for our partners on a year-over-year basis, it's up 20% on average. Now there's still more to come. If you go back to 2020 and you look at where we are right now, the number is about close to 50% higher, but we still have further opportunities. And I think what that's going to help us, it's going to help us at peak times. It's going to help us in the speak 15 minutes that you talked about.
But also as we look at demand overall and we look at the portfolio of stores we run and how we work with digital with those, you're going to see a stock later this afternoon around how we find ways to simplify what happens in the store and also meet a broader set of demand with very careful choices about how we locate stores, what we do with stores, how we digitally amplify what we are doing in terms of demand. But also, in supply, how we link that with the equipment we're bringing in with a strong operating foundation. So, there's more opportunity than what we have now.
I'm very pleased with the way that the reinvention plan is implemented. A couple highlights I think the progress we've made on staffing and scheduling is extremely strong. Furthermore, if you look at what we've been able to accomplished with regard to efficiencies and the culture and the capability and the processes we now have in place in order to systematically attack these efficiencies across the business is actually very strong as well.
What we are accelerating on top of that is how we think about purpose-defined stores and what we're doing in putting together a strong operating foundation in our stores. That is going to really help us as we create the infrastructure, we create the store footprint, against which we will add to the equipment that we have in stores.
Our equipment pipeline, what we have, the way we manage our new equipment, what's coming in, that entire pipeline and portfolio management is entirely on track. And we feel very good about the progress we are making there. And I think that is something that we're going to continue to see going forward.
I want to thank you all for joining us this morning. I want to appreciate all your questions, and I look forward to seeing you all this afternoon when we have our strategic update, and when we get to celebrate our holiday launch with you. Thank you all for joining us this morning.