1Carrie Wheeler
Carrie Wheeler
Opendoor Technologies Inc (OPEN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, Dae, it's Carrie, I'll take that. A couple things, one is we're highly focused on rescaling the business, but we're intent on doing it in a sustainable way. So right now, what we're managing to is what I'd call a macro neutral environment. We're not willing to lean into spreads. We're not willing to lean into access marketing to drive growth at the expense of margin of risk. Certainly, if there are macro tailwinds, say second-half of this year, we are well positioned to take advantage of those. But our objective is to meaningfully ramp our acquisitions this year and to do so within our contribution margin target range we talked about. All of which will substantially reduce our ANI losses year-on-year. So this is about when, not if.
Yes, when we make substantial improvement last year in our cost structure much of which we set back in durably reducing spreads, so the combination of cost structure improvement and home price stabilization allowed us to take those down throughout the year. And we like where they are today, which is why we're ramping advertising spend by 50% in Q1 and why we're leaning into acquisition contract growth.
Welcome.
Hey, Nick. It's Carrie. I'd say at a very high level, last year's 8.3% CM on the new book, which was great, was about last year's spreads, and we realized that 8.3%. I mean, this year, given where we've set our spreads, that's why we're reaffirming our 5% to 7% contribution margin target. So again, we're balancing that interplay of growth margin risk and we reduced our spreads to a level where we wanted to deliver within that 5% to 7% for the year.
Hey, Max, it's Carrie. So at a high level, you should see a meaningful increase in acquisitions 2024 over 2023. I'll repeat some of our guidance, which was Q1 being up 100% year-on-year. So we're going to see good acquisition growth in the first quarter. What we're seeing right now, as we'd expect to see for this time of the year, just given seasonality, people kind of getting back into thinking about selling post Super Bowl, we're seeing a ramp in contracts month-to-month. February higher than January, March higher than February. And we're going to see those contracts turn into closes in Q2, which is why we indicated like you should expect to see from us sequential acquisition growth Q2 over Q1. So that's what I can tell you in terms of acquisition pacing for the first half of the year.
I'd say we're focused on both. But I would say our plan to get back to positive cash flow is all about the current core business today, our sell-direct model. That gets us back there. Our cost structure and our balance sheet will allow us to deliver on that. Marketplace for us, certainly important long-term strategic we're 1 year into it, right? We're about connecting buyers and sellers, but we're doing it in a single market. We've said consistently we want to make sure that we focus on having great product market fit before we scale it. I would say that this has been a tough year for experimentation against a low market supply, like record low market supply, that's challenging. But that's short term, long term, we remain committed to continue to evolve the marketplace product.
Welcome.
Hey Curt, it's Carrie. I think are you asking a marketing mix question?
Yes. I mean, all credit to our creative marketing team. We actually didn't buy a Super Bowl ad to be clear. We -- this has been a year of cost discipline, as you know, as we were not sending…
Okay. Yes, we were by the way -- we did want to be part of the Super Bowl, pre-run and part of the conversation, and I think our team did a good job of putting us in that room, and we did a lot of stuff in and around Super Bowl before the game, and then we had a live-out during half time in Atlanta. So I'd say it's too early to tell the impact of that. We definitely saw a big pickup in traffic and awareness in Atlanta specifically. And I think time will tell in terms of what the impact of that is. I would say the higher level, though, if you think about how we think about marketing spend, I mean, last year, we took down spend substantially. That was in response to where our spreads were because some spend became less efficient.
You think about this year, we have really leaned into some of our more efficient marketing channels. Brand being one, is the whole thing is evidence is one of those. But what we found is that brand lift all boats for us. So we increased our brand spend, and we're finding that increases conversion across all avenues. And actually, even though we had lower spend last year, we actually maintained our brand awareness, something we're really proud of. And the partnerships will continue to lean into because they're very efficient from a customer acquisition cost perspective and then there's paid. So you should expect to see more creative from this. You should expect to see more brand, but we're going to do within making sure we manage the overall envelope.
Welcome.
Hey Mike, it's Carrie. So first of all, marketing will not be flat sequentially, right? It's going to be up 50% in terms of advertising expense in Q1. That is part of the fuel to drive acquisition growth we've been talking about for the first half of the year, that's one. There definitely is a correlation between advertising spend and how we drive volumes. It's not all of the story. I mean things like partnerships are fixed and brand is less directly correlated certainly, but it's a longer-term investment that we're seeing in the payoff and things like brand awareness.
So as Christy said, the step-up from Q4 to Q2, a good chunk of that, about half of that was in marketing. That's probably the biggest chunk up we'll have. We're always going to evaluate our marketing budget for the course of the year, but we're comfortable with what you just told you, which is that should be the biggest step up for the year. And we tend to see -- we spend into the first part of the year. We tend to get quieter in the very back half of the year because sellers require it. So yes, we feel good about -- given where our spreads are today, we feel good about the marketing investment we've sized.
Thanks. First of all, thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I just want to say we're excited about how we're set up for 2024 and beyond. Hopefully, you can hear from us, we've done the hard work in 2023 to be leaner, to be more agile and to be able to rescale the business in a sustainable fashion. As I said, when not if. So heading into 2024, we'll be deploying the same operating principles, focus execution results. We're looking forward to speaking with you next quarter. Thank you.