David Zaslav
David Zaslav
Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. (WBD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks so much. Look, we're coming through two years of product that we inherited that was a struggle, and you saw it as it came through our balance sheet. This year, we expect is going to be much better. Wonka was very strong. The team got in and really reworked that product. We've shown that we have a great ability to market a product globally. We're very committed to the Motion Picture business where we have loads of talent back, which I enumerated. But when you look at this year, we have M. Night, His Daughter has a movie coming out this summer, The Watchers. We have Beetlejuice coming. We're very excited about. Todd Phillips has his Joker, Joker 2 coming, all of which -- our overall lineup this year is much more compelling. We have a team that's ready to take -- to build those brands around the world.
And as I've said, we've really targeted DC. We have Superman, Supergirl, great script has been written and that's being cast. We'll have James and Peter take you through in the next few months a full spectrum of what they see over the next 10 years. And we're attacking Lord of the Rings, we're attacking Harry Potter, because we think this is a balance. We have these great brands -- Game of Thrones. We have these great brands that people everywhere in the world know, love and will leave a dinner to come run and see. And the balance is we also need things like -- the new things like Barbie, and Mike and Pam are doing a terrific job. And our commitment to the Motion Picture business is something that there's a real sense of in the town and it's one of the reasons why we're getting some of the very best people coming on board with us.
So I'm pretty excited about what we have this year and what you'll see rolling out in the year ahead. Bottom line, the studio has really been underperforming and -- including the end of the year, where we had some real struggle, but we're very optimistic about this year and it gives us a chance to have a lot of upside in the next two years. I mean, it was really a struggle. JB?
And contrasted candidly of the next -- of the last six to eight months where we just didn't have a lot of content. So what's encouraging is that, we've been able to grow and we really haven't had much fresh content. And so this True Detective was step one, but we're going to be rolling out all of these franchises and shows over the next 12 to 24 months, and it gives us a real sense of optimism.
Sure. Well, why don't I start with that? Look, there's about 125 million households in America and there's more than 60 million of those that are not in the traditional bundled cable ecosystem. And we see that with things like Bleacher Report, where we have 30 million people mostly under 30 that the overwhelming majority are not in the traditional cable universe, but they love sports. They're on Bleacher and House of Highlights all day. And so we have a very rich target of over 60 million people that love sports. And it's a product that's quite modern.
So today, when people are thinking what channel should I watch, what channel is my sport on, you'll be able to go to this new product, this new app-based product, and if you love the baseball playoffs, you'll watch all of them. And you're not thinking, what channel is it on? Hockey, you'll watch all of the hockey playoffs right through the Stanley Cup. For basketball, you'll watch all the playoffs right through to the championships, and you will never think or ever have to Google where is it. And so it's a platform that this -- that the younger generation that is not subscribing, we're able to go after those that we're missing. We're missing those subscribers. The traditional cable industry is missing those subscribers. We think it's very pro-consumer.
Look, we have a great relationship and -- with our existing distributors. This is a unique product that's looking to meet a very strong demand. And together, I think this partnership of us together with Disney and Fox, with Bob and with Lachlan, we're like minded, we're aligned. We believe that this could be a very compelling product. We're going to be very aggressive with it. We're going to be aggressive marketing it, and we think it coexists very effectively. We don't see a lot of people unsubscribing to cable in order to get this. We're going after the 60 million plus doors that are -- they're not thinking about getting cable when they get their own apartments.
And so, we're quite excited about it. I've seen a number of the prototypes. We're pretty far along. This is not an announcement you're going to see. We're going to follow pretty quickly with our plans, and I think it's going to meet a really -- it's going to meet a demand that's very strong in the marketplace.
Just one point on that. This -- the ability to now have a profitable streaming business and to keep that business profitable and growing in a year where we're launching in multiple markets around the world, where we're deploying real capital to build the brand, to market the programming, and to have the infrastructure around the world. And so for us, we see this year as a continued build as we go toward next year of $1 billion in streaming.
Free cash flow is a key metric for us. And we said we're going after it to have generated the $6.2 billion, but also just the 60% conversion, this company -- in a year where we held back dramatically on selling our content to third parties, where you saw -- I think it was almost $1 billion in difference year-over-year in terms of the content that we sold. We're doing what's right for the business long term. We're laser-focused on driving free cash flow delevering. You'll see us driving free cash flow this year. You'll see us delevering the balance sheet. That makes us a healthy company because when you partner that with the fact that we have great content, great creatives at Warner, at Max, at HBO, great content coming up in the next few years. That we think is the recipe to really differentiate us.
And just as an operating thesis for the company, we're really focused on running these companies -- each of the companies efficiently, having them work together, and we're fighting for free cash flow and to grow free cash flow in each of the businesses. As Gunnar said, this past year we did get the help of the strikes.
On other transactions or whether there's assets out there outside of investing in ourselves that make sense, obviously, we look at everything. We work really hard to get ourselves a healthy balance sheet, to pay down debt, to get below 4 times levered, to really focus on where we're spending money, on driving free cash flow. And so, we've positioned this company really now as being a healthy company and with a great leadership team, with a lot of direction.
We have a great set of assets. We're probably the only pure storytelling company, particularly a pure storytelling company that operates on all platforms. And I think we have the greatest set of franchise content assets. And so I like our hand. I think as we look to the future now with Max profitable, we think we can build that. And so we like where we are. We do have the optionality of looking at other assets, but it's going to be a very high bar for us. We like our hand, where it is, and we like the -- our particular strategy right now of building Max and really deploying all of our great creative assets.
The point that Gunnar made, when we do sell content, we do it only co-exclusively so that we hold on to everything. There's nothing that we want that's on Max that we would sell and wouldn't be on Max anymore. I would put it in two categories. Channing is back in business quite aggressively, the Warner Bros. Television business. We have over 100 series, some of the best series on television, Shrinking, Abbott Elementary, Ted Lasso. We have some of the greatest talent on the TV side working with us. And so, that's back up and we think we're going to see a lot of -- we'll see a lot of opportunity there.
On our library, we're incredibly aggressive on the bottom end of it. There is a group of big branded programs that represent the core of who we are as a company. And we're -- those are going to stay with us, and you've seen some big name shows, but most of those have been around for a very long time. They've already been syndicated on other platforms and we're able to reap a significant amount of dollars from them. And so, that will be the balance. We probably have the biggest motion picture and TV library in the world, and our job is to really focus on how to monetize that with different windows.
Thanks, Ben. Look, the UK, Germany and Italy, and I think we've said it before over the last year, are key markets for us. We have deals in those markets with Sky, which is a -- has been a -- over the years, a great partner to us in many ways and will continue to be a great partner to us. But having our own direct-to-consumer product in those markets is a core strategic initiative of ours, and we're already in business aggressively in those markets. In the UK, we have our direct-to-consumer Discovery+ product and we're one of the leaders in sport in the UK where we have what -- our partnership with BT, which we just rebranded as TNT Sports, and that has millions and millions of subscribers. And that partnership is going very, very well.
And so, the idea of coming into that market with the wealth of content that we have, and our content is -- we see how well our content works in the UK, Germany and Italy. We could see the ratings of that content when it airs on Sky and the share that it gets in the aggregate. And so we think it's -- those will be real businesses for us and meaningful and real opportunity to grow economics and grow subscribers, but that'll be in -- beginning in 2026.
Now, there are markets like, for instance, India, where we did a very attractive deal with Reliance. There are markets where we look and we say that for the near term, even in that case, we did not do a long-term deal, we get a chance to see how all of our content does. And if we think that we can be more profitable and build asset value in a market, we will go. In markets where we don't and the economics are very compelling to sit out for a period of time, we'll do that like we did in India. But Europe is core to us and Latin America. And so you're seeing us really speak to that with these launches, and you'll see it over the next 18 months.
Thanks, Robert. Look, I think everything is driven by the consumer experience, and the consumer experience right now is cluttered, it's awkward, it's somewhat confusing. People have learned how to deal with it. You google what show, where a show is and -- or where a sport is, but rebundling just makes an awful lot of sense. And this idea, I think we've transitioned out of the idea of subs at any cost. We've done that by getting Max profitable and really focusing on getting real subs with real economics and growing that like a real business. But the ability for a consumer to go to one place, the Verizon example is a good example, and Netflix is a great product. You put it together with Max and you can get those together, provide a very meaningful experience for people, and it makes it a lot easier to traverse across our universe and theirs.
In the longer term, I expect that there will be meaningful bundling. It's going to happen in one of two ways. It'll either be a bundling by an intermediary, a platform company like an Apple or an Amazon or a Roku, or what's going on with Charter and Comcast, which is very compelling and I think very helpful to all of us in the content business, that these channel stores morph into places that have -- just provide a simpler and easier and less anxious experience for people to find the content that they want and have it be simple and fluid. or we could do it ourselves, and I've always advocated that we should do it ourselves.
And so we're looking to do that domestically. We're looking to do it outside the US. In some ways, the sports venture is trying to meet that very need that when you put our product together with Lachlan and Fox's product together with the ESPN product, it just has a much better, more fluid, more simple consumer experience. It's not which channel is it on? It's not where do I go? How do I go? Do I have it? Don't I have it? It's in one place. And I think more and more will be gravitating toward that.