Tim Knavish
Tim Knavish
PPG Industries, Inc. (PPG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hi. Good morning Dave. Thanks for the question. We will have positive company price for full year 2024. Again, to your point, largely from Performance Coatings and more targeted beyond that. As far as big box pricing, most of the big box pricing is contractual and so I wouldn't say that you'll see a significant movement in that pricing throughout the year.
Yes. And I would just add -- this is Tim, John. Thanks for the question. I would just add that fundamentally, upstream of us, it's still a pretty long environment. No issues on our end from availability and I think that's a good indicator for us as we move through the year as well.
Yes. Hi, good morning Ghansham. It's not a mix issue for us, Ghansham. It's more – first of all, I'm very pleased with how we've continued to hold price, even just closing out fourth quarter with another 2% increment. Again, we'll be positive in Q1, the confidence level is more because of a couple of things. One, to Vince's point earlier, raws are still quite elevated. We're talking about coming off of extremely high peaks. And so -- but they're still quite elevated from, say, 2019. So we don't see what I would characterize as massive deflation by any means.
And the confidence level as we move through the year, I'll talk Performance Coatings. We -- as you know well, we get price almost irrespective there of the raw material environment, because of the unique value proposition that we deliver in performance where we're such a small part of the cost structure of our customers from a pure paint standpoint, but the value add outside of the can that we deliver is such a big significant impact on their cost structure. So that's a very different model there.
And on industrial side, where maybe it is more proportionate to raw material increases or decreases, we just don't see the long supply dynamic upstream of us changing dramatically as we move through the year. When you think about, for example, China, just not having a V-shaped rebound in China is a big consumer of raws. So we expect a more moderate environment as we move through 2024.
Yes. Duffy, this is Tim. I'll do the auto one. I'll let Vince do the cash versus EBITDA one. Auto had a really good year for us last year, and we are well positioned for what we view as a multiyear recovery. So I personally continue to be bullish on auto as we look into the full year 2024, when you look at our Q1, and we went from up mid-single digits in Q4, and we're projecting low single-digits down in Q1, a lot of that, if you go back to last year, we were a strong double-digit up in Q1 of 2023.
And also, yes, there is some, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, we do have some of our index pricing rolling back and that has some impact. But I would not -- personally, I'm not overconcerned about auto volumes as we move through the year. I think total builds were 89-point-something last year.
I believe there is some incremental upside to that as we move through 2024. Our share position is good. Our China auto position is really good. And as you know, out of the 90 million new builds, about 30 million will come out of China. So overall, feeling good about auto. There's a little bit of a year-over-year comp soft point and a little bit of index pricing rolling off in Q1.
Yes. And Duffy, this is Tim. I'm going to come back with one additional -- Vince mentioned the EV situation. And we all see the headlines on EVs, but that's largely U.S. and Europe right now. And as you know, two-thirds of the world's EVs are made in China, and that content number, if you look at the average PPG content across the EV space for 2023, was up by 20%. So our content per EV built was up by 20% in 2023. So that bodes well for us as well.
Yes. Hi, Good morning, Steve. There was -- the quick answer on your second question is there were some unusuals and Vince will take that. But your first one, the Home Depot relationship and progress on the Pro program is going as expected. Quite frankly, the challenge that we have is that as it's growing off relatively small denominator, as you know, it's still being offset by the challenges on the DIY side. DIY is still the Home Depot and the Glyndon brand and Olympic brands are still a critical part of our DIY omnichannel strategy going forward. And unfortunately, the negatives there from a volume standpoint are offsetting the good progress that we have on our Pro omnichannel between the Home Depot and our own network.
If I look at -- just to give some perspective, so Q4, despite the challenges out there, we were up low single digits on our Pro omnichannel. And our sell out with the Home Depot was one of our better quarters yet. So we're making progress there. But our DIY omnichannel, which includes not only what we do with the Home Depot, but also our big partner in the Midwest, our DIY remain down. So that's the issue there, but the momentum continues to grow. It's -- as I've said many times, we are building a business model for the future. That's brick-and-mortar light and it's a marathon, not a sprint, and we continue to tick off miles on the marathon. So good progress.
Vince Morales
Yes, Steve, on the overhead, I'm going to just look at the whole year, there's always movement between quarters within a year. But on a full year basis, our overhead was up about $380 million. About a third of that is directly correlated to the increase in sales, whether it be volume, price, or FX. So, on a percentage basis, if you just do the percent's comparison, you get about a third of that directly related to our sales movement.
Another third of that on a year-over-year basis, and then Tim alluded to this in his opening remarks, we did have a higher shareholder based and performance-based compensation and the reminder that in the prior year, we had much lower compensation. So, kind of a doubling effect on a year-over-year basis.
And the final third roughly $100 million or so of inflation and the remainder of that would be growth initiatives for some of the key programs we won throughout the year and including our Comex growth, et cetera.
Yes, hi John, it's both. But I mean the vast majority of the vehicles that we paint in China stay in China. The exciting part on the export side is the largest producer EVs now in the world, a Chinese producer is beginning to export. So, that will just be incremental upside but the vast majority of the cars that we paint in China stay in China.
Yes, I think the question about margin expansion beyond what Vince described in pricing is the volume leverage will be significant on the industrial segment because that's the segment that really got hit the hardest during COVID and COVID recovery and so we've still got significant margin upside driven by volume leverage.
The other side, if you go back to our CEO Day in May in New York, we pointed to about $150 million to $200 million of manufacturing productivity gains that we had line of sight to in the coming years, really, not just to get back to where we were pre-COVID, but also as we modernize, automate, digitize our operations. So those will really be the two levers that get us to the next horizon on margin largely across the industrial segment, but somewhat also in the Performance Coatings side.
Yes. Hi, Kevin. So first of all, we're going to have positive volume in 2024 for the year. I would – our sales, we said, are going to be up low single digits, we might have to start putting a fourth letter there because I think the – I'm sorry, the volume will be a little higher on the low single-digit side and the price will be a little lower on the low single-digit side. But we have volume momentum for really five quarters now, minus three, minus two, a little lighter, minus two, our fourth quarter. We rounded it up to minus one. It was actually less than minus one.
We're looking at a zero for Q1. And that includes the impact of the Walmart load in. It includes the shift from of Easter from one quarter to the next. So we have momentum on volume, some of it just because of the diversity of our portfolio and where we participate, but some of it because of the growth initiatives that we've worked on throughout 2023, where we've picked up share that will start to kick in this year. I think about our packaging coatings business, our Industrial Coatings business, our refinish coatings business.
So it's really the positivity on volume is one even though they've had negative numbers in front of them for much of 2023, we do have volume momentum. We see it flipping in early 2024. And it's a combination of strength of our portfolio positioning and execution on our growth initiatives.
Yes. Hi. Mike, it's Tim. I'll start. Target, we don't write a target in pen because it changes with time, depending on where we are in the execution of our strategy. We're doing some portfolio things. You've seen some announcements in that regard. And where we are on our strength of our balance sheet, very strong right now, but it would be different as the environment changes.
M&A, it has -- it was a little quiet there for some time. We're seeing some things come across our desk now. Nothing huge in the pipeline, but we're seeing some assets come across, and we're evaluating those. Overall, on the strength of the balance sheet and deployment, consistent with what I said throughout last year, number one, we're going to focus on continuing to generate strong cash. That gives us a great deal of flexibility. I'm very proud of what the team did in 2023.
Just to be very clear, we will not let cash sit on the balance sheet. We'll do what we need to do from dividends. We've got some good organic growth investments that we'll invest in. Love to do some shareholder value accretion -- accretive acquisitions. And if that doesn't come along, then we'll return cash by buying shares. We did some in Q4 for the first time in a long time. And if we've got excess cash sitting on the balance sheet, you can be assured that that's what we'll do.
Now Q1, we're sitting with a lot of cash right now, but we typically consume significant cash in Q1. And so we'll be a little cautious here in Q1 so that we don't get back into paying high interest cost debt, which we just got out of. But beyond that, you should expect us to not let the cash sit there.
Vince Morales
Yes. Let me just add. This is Vince. I just want to reemphasize the key comment Tim said, we prefer a strong balance sheet. Due to the optionality, it gives us on many fronts. We feel where we are today. We don't need to let cash grow. We will consume cash through April. That's our traditional seasonality of our businesses. So the $1.5 billion that sits on the balance sheet, we will consume them through April.
That allows us to not enter the debt markets as significantly as we normally would for commercial paper. At this time of the year, we're typically adding commercial paper throughout -- from now through the end of April. So that's why our interest cost in Q1 will be lower, because we're going to use the cash on hand to fund that seasonal inventory build. That cash will then what we typically generate strong cash in the back half of the year, which is we'll deplete our interest income. And then, as we generate that strong cash in the back half of the year, we'll look at other uses.
Hi Jeff, it's Tim. I'll take titanium dioxide question. And Vince, you can take the more finance-related questions there. TiO2, we see very good availability. We see a long supply chain upstream of us, it's still quite long. And so we're seeing some modestly lower pricing on TiO2 than what we would have seen last year. It's not down as much as some other parts of our basket, but it's definitely down from where we were last year, Jeff.
And on TiO2, in addition to pricing, I do have to mention that a key part of our strategy is to continue the research work that we do to reduce our titanium dioxide content in our formulas every year without sacrificing any performance. And our team has done a great job there. We're down about 1% per formula over the last several years, and we achieved that again in 2023.
Okay, Vincent, this is Tim. On the Q1, yes, I'd say correct. There is an extra day in February. I think the negativity of Easter impacts that more significantly in 1 day because particularly some parts of the world, Europe, vacations before, some vacations after other parts of the world. We do have Easter time is typically a good month for us in Mexico. And so it's more significant than the one day. But you are correct. Also on Q1 though, we have in addition to the Easter impact, you do have that customer load-in that we mentioned and the energy pricing issue that Vince mentioned earlier.
On the pro DIY, first of all, DIY remains down? And yes, some of it, I don't know if we could put a time stamp exactly on it, but some of it, you could call it COVID -- post-COVID hangover, as people did a lot of pull forward, I think now it's more general inflation, and general consumer spending and confidence on remodeling at home. And some of it is existing home resale too. Where sellers -- DIY sellers will paint their house, DIY buyers will paint their house. So I do think some of it is related to what's happening with existing home sales as well. But I do think it's some combination of that and just overall inflation and how it's hitting the average consumer's pocket book and the decisions that they're having to, make.
On the Pro side, does remain strong. We do see some areas of weakness, again, in things like existing home resale, some of that's done by Pros as well. But we see strength in commercial strength and maintenance. And I think that's why it's holding up well. And that's not only a U.S. phenomenon, that's a phenomena that we see in Europe as well.
TiO2 Europe, I'm sorry, I missed that element. Yes, the TiO2 Europe, we're watching this process very closely. A couple of things, we have not dramatically shifted.
We do buy a good bit from the Chinese TiO2 suppliers. They're an important part of our supply portfolio. And we're watching this process in Europe. We think, number one it will be a very lengthy process. Number two, we have -- we're constantly working on the diversity of our supply base in TiO2 and the flexibility of that supply base.
And we've made significant improvements there and where else we can use the various TiO2 from different parts of the world, including China. And again, we continue our longer-term initiative of reducing our dependence solely on TiO2 by removing it from our formulations without sacrificing performance.
So those three things I would point to. Again, we're watching it very closely. And we'll adapt. And I'm confident that the between the upstream supply being in a long situation. And the diversification work that we've done, we'll do what we need to run our business.
Okay. Hi Frank, I'll start. It's Tim. I think your interpretation of my volume comments are spot on. Positive -- positive volume for the year, flattish in Q1, and then you should see an up-tick soon thereafter. So I do think that's spot on.
I know you asked Vince to your question. I'm going to give a quick lead in on Europe, despite the very benign 2023 volume environment in Europe, we had a record year of earnings in 2023 in Europe. So yes, it does impact the top line, but our team has really executed well and we had all-time record earnings and also, it's not all of our businesses in Europe. We have -- Arrow is very strong in Europe. Auto had a better-than-expected year in Europe.
And frankly, we do expect that to continue. It's really mostly around the deco the Deco market, particularly the retail deco market in Europe that saw negative volume. And PMC, PMC had a great European year with -- particularly driven by both protective and marine aftermarket. So I'd give that lead into Europe and hand it over to Vince.
And the last part of your question, what are we seeing in the U.S. relative to volume? We've got the PMC business, mostly on the P side, the protective side, doing well in the U.S., driven a lot by energy spending and infrastructure traffic with infrastructure spending will be stronger this year.
Refinish doing very well. And auto, the U.S. SAAR is holding up very well. I know inventories have ticked up a bit, but they're still only at about 40 days. So those would be on the – and of course, Aero, we're selling everything we can make. So those would be on the positive side of the U.S. ledger.
The negative side, again, we've said DIY multiple times, we do expect at least the first half of this year, to be soft there. The only upside there might be that we do believe destocking in that space is behind us.
And then finally, I would say general industrial coatings driven by just industrial activity, and this could be all kinds of widgets that get painted. That's still a bit soft in the U.S. So that's a bit of a positive and negative ledger here at home, Frank.
Yes, sure, Lexi. So in PPG Comex in Mexico, we said in May, 1 of our key initiatives was to continue our robust performance and growth in the Deco space, and the team did that another record year, double-digit sales up on the year, but also to introduce other parts of our portfolio to that strong concessionaire network. And we've done that.
Protective Coatings were up, let's call it, very high single-digits. Adding again adding that fourth letter, but traffic sales were up double-digit. And I just returned, we just had all of our concessionaires together this past weekend and I was down there meeting with them, and they're very bullish on their ability to sell not only Deco, but these protective traffic, powder, light industrial coatings. So we're off and running.
We just literally on -- I believe it was Monday of this week, introduced powder brands and refinish brands that are specific and dedicated and exclusive to the concessionaire network and that got a very good reception.
Your other question on the initiatives that we kicked off last year as part of our enterprise growth strategy, I'd say, I am very pleased with the first year of execution of that enterprise growth strategy. As we said in the opening remarks, those initiatives, just in the first year, generated about $150 million of incremental sales. And some of those initiatives are longer-term initiatives than others and still in development. So between powder films, the Mexico opportunity that we just talked about, EVs up 20% content per vehicle. They're all up and running and I'm very pleased with the progress that we have seen so far.
Yes. Laurent, it's really not been anything near material to us to this point. First of all, from our direct products, paint and coatings don't do very well shipping around the world. We're mostly local for local. So minimal impact on our direct products. Our suppliers, we have -- our suppliers have plenty of capacity. There's plenty of inventory upstream of us.
And our suppliers are seeing some delays but they're accounting for that in their production planning and in their logistics planning. So we're not expecting any impact to us there to the financial impact. We've seen a few minor small surcharges being implemented, but frankly, to this point, pretty insignificant.
So the piece that we're watching and the reason we listed it on that part of our slide, was we're not certain of the impact on customers particularly if you think about European auto OEMs where they've got sourcing from around the world. And if they're missing any critical parts, it may impact production scheduling, we have seen none of that so far. That's really the piece we're watching more of a customer impact than on any internal impact.
To your restocking, maybe I doubt that we'll see any significant inventory build of paints and coatings as a result of this. I think it will be more a movement of inventories upstream of us and how our suppliers deal with deal with their own logistics planning. But again, the fact that they're pretty long right now, we're not expecting any issues.
And Laurent, one more for me. We have nothing in the guide for the first quarter for this area
Yes, I'll take this one. Refinish had a good year, a record quarter, and that was off of tough comps. Yes, claims still down in the U.S., still down versus 2019. But we're able to achieve our results even at that level. And what I'll tell you is body shop activity is up and strong. And the only thing -- most of our body shop customers have backlogs, driven mostly by labor availability.
So even though claims are down and we watch that closely, we're still performing. I would also add, largely because of our digital tools, we had a really good share gain year and even the revenue that we get from those digital tools was up more than 100% year-over-year. So, we feel good about that moving into this year. We've got a good order book as we sit here today. So, yes, we are watching claims and mouse driven.
The only thing I can hypothesize is that the type of driving is maybe a bit different. Most downtowns and cities are still not as crowded as they used to be. We see more claims coming from suburbia than we used to.
But overall, we feel positive about this business moving into the year. I'm confident in our best-in-class productivity, value proposition, we're winning shops. So, I would say we expect to have another really strong year out of our Refinish business.
Yes, Mike, I guess we'll both have a little bit of extra time this weekend. So, we won't be glued to the TV screen based on last week's results. So, wish you the best for that. We'll have some -- it's a number of things. We'll certainly have positive price, as I mentioned earlier. We will have higher low single-digits on volume, which will bring not only the benefit of margin dropping, but we will get better leverage out of our manufacturing assets by finally starting to get positive volume. We'll have a manufacturing productivity that will be a piece of that. We do expect -- even though it's a bit early to say what will happen on raws in the second half of the year, we do expect price net inflation to continue to be a good guy for us.
And beyond that, I just answered some of the enterprise growth initiatives that we talked about. Those things will start to -- some of the have already started kicking in with that $150 million that I mentioned, but we'll see continued momentum on those enterprise growth initiatives.
Additionally, we got cash deployment. We haven't talked about that -- we certainly didn't talk about it as we were rebuilding last year and paying down debt, but that will be another piece of the equation that wasn't there last year.
Yes. Our partnership with Asian Paints in India is fantastic and continues to perform very well. And across the same segments that were really strong in the rest of the world, which are doing well over there, automotive OEM, automotive refinish, industrial coatings, protective coatings. So that partnership is really world-class and helps us take our global technology advantage solutions to someone and partner with someone that's best-in-class within India. And so it's a really good story for us, not only in 2023, but going forward.
Okay. Let me take those on, Jaideep. Its Tim. First of all, capacity. We got plenty of capacity. We have capacity. You know volumes are still down significantly versus 2019. And yes, we haven't taken capacity out since 2019. And frankly I would say our industry peers and certainly our suppliers. There's capacity. So yes, you're exactly right. You should expect that as volume comes up, certainly, we will get leverage from that volume, which will drop as margin improvement.
Second question, raw materials and inventories. We do still have probably a few days higher DOI that we would like to have, $100 million, $150 million more raw material inventory than we would like to have. So yes, we will be buying raw materials in Q1 as we get ready for the peak paint season and some of them are more seasonal businesses, but maybe a little bit less than what links directly to demand because of that excess that we're sitting on today.
And finally, on marine and protective, the quick answer is yes. We have launched some new products, new technologies recently in the fire protection area. That are quite strong and being well received by the market. For hydrocarbon fire protection is a product called PITT-CHAR NX, which has been very well received and on the cellulosic fire protection side, a product called STEELGUARD 651, which is also being very well received.
So those new technologies are delivering share gain for us. But separate from fire protection, we've got really a fantastic product on the marine dry dock side that's very sustainable, very fuel efficient and drives -- it's really getting really good market receptivity and we've got a lot of share gains that will be -- we'll reap the benefits of those share gains in 2024 and beyond, and that's a product called SIGMAGLIDE. So, it is technology-driven in those spaces.