Saum Sutaria
Saum Sutaria
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (THC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. Hey it's Saum. Thanks for the question Cal.
No, your interpretation is right. I mean we anticipate continued strong growth in the ambulatory surgery segment. I mean, 2023 was a very strong year, and it was across service lines, as I pointed out, GI, urology, ENT, orthopedics, ophthalmology. I mean we had strength across the board. We had physician additions across the board. Total joint surgeries grew significantly in the fourth quarter, even above what we were running during the course of the year. So we feel very good about that going forward.
Yes. Look, I would say that first of all, the comp in the first quarter is really, really strong based upon the recovery we saw. And we're very analytically driven in the way we look at this. I mean our GI positions over the course of 2023 performed more than 15% more procedures than they did in the prior year as individuals. That's a pretty big leap and we think it's sustainable. I mean, one of the things that we're doing with some of our more innovative GI physician group partners is focusing on how we hardwire our operating efficiency in the ASCs to allow them to be more productive on a sustainable basis going forward so that, that recovery volume, whatever proportion of that may be becomes their norm.
And that's a really, really good lesson learned from 2023, about our ability to actually deliver case volumes at that high level of productivity. The fact is, if you look back over time, long periods of time, 15, 20 years, when you have notably strong growth years, you often have just based on comps some slightly lower volume rates. But look, we've developed a pattern now of being mindful of what we see in the environment. But if the business outperforms raising our guidance just like we did in 2023, if in fact, it's warranted. Again, I'm very optimistic about 2024, and there's really no other way to interpret that other than what we just talked about.
Thank you.
Yes, they're – both of these opportunities we're opportunistic as you say, we were not in the marketplace looking for those, although as I just mentioned to A.J., we have a strategic sense of what we would entertain at what values. And again, we remain opportunistic. But most importantly, we remain committed to the portfolio that we have and running it at a high quality with solid earnings from that standpoint that we can deliver. So I mean, I'm not sure how to answer the question on a go-forward basis other than to say we have demonstrated thoughtful divestiture activity in a way that remains consistent with our strategy and enhances not just our leverage position, but our belief in our ability to generate free cash flow going forward.
Thanks Justin.
Well, obviously, we're very cognizant of the impact of CMS's commentary on the two-midnight rule, Medicare Advantage is very important to us and being a good partner to our Medicare Advantage health plans and also our medical groups and organized medical groups that participate in Medicare Advantage is something we actually are quite focused on operationally because we are focused on delivering good throughput. We only admit patients through the emergency department when appropriate. We have high standards for that. So we end up being in a position where being focused on MA is important.
Now look, we also believe strongly that when people are in the hospital and are sick enough and their condition warrants it based upon the admitting physician's judgment to be inpatients versus an alternative outpatient-based status that is the appropriate thing to do. And we very much agree with the guidance from CMS that that should be tightened up. So operationally, we're focused on it. Remember, we also, through Conifer, have the ability to focus on it for us and our clients in terms of ensuring that we have the appropriate documentation in order to defend that position.
So we're going to keep at that. We haven't quantified any potential upside from that, although we have considered it, obviously in our guidance, but we haven't specifically called out anything from that perspective. The de novo number for 2024, I'd have to -- yes, I'd have to go take a look at an exact number, but it's north of 10, potentially approaching 15. I'm sorry that I don't have an exact number for you.
Yes. Hey Kevin, it's Saum. Let me start. Look, I think a couple of points that I made. First of all, we had an outstanding year in the hospital segment. As you know, every quarter, we exceeded our expectations there.
Look, for us, I mean, we took a lot of the benefit from contract labor reduction in 2023. Now don't get me wrong, there's an annualization effect that will improve in the coming year. The volume strength was also very good during the year. And so I think that we believe that we'll continue to see acute care recovery in 2024, like we saw in 2023. And if we're able to open up capacity effectively to service the demand that we want, which again is consistent with our high acuity strategy, I think that's what gets us to the upper end of our guidance, right? It's really the volume potential there. And then we're mindful of the fact that there are some things in the operating environment to think about. We did very well, but did have cost increases in 2023 in medical fees. We're anticipating some impact of that again, but we think manageable and in the guidance from that perspective.
Sun, I don't know if you want to add anything.
Yes. Thanks Whit. I mean, first of all the pipeline is very robust at this stage and healthy, inclusive of both single centers and platforms that have multiple centers within it, a good mix of acuity across different services, meaning orthopedics and other things.
In addition so look, I mean the 575 to 600 is a range that we put out there as a target by that standpoint. One of the things that we're going to be disciplined about is we're going to do good deals, high-quality assets, attractive multiples, not overpaying and ultimately being able to deliver earnings growth in those facilities and organic growth in those facilities in a way that we got it. So we're not going to chase a number, but our pipeline at this point makes me feel good about the fact that if things come together the right way, we could reach that target by the end of 2025.
Yes. Hey a couple of thoughts, yes. I mean 2% to 3% is kind of our long-term estimate. We have, obviously, as I indicated somewhat purposefully a very high degree of visibility into our managed care pricing and obviously, the Medicare pricing for 2024. The acuity and mix potentially represents some upside there.
If you think about 2023 where we saw a lot of recovery in GI and ENT cases, even a relative mix shift could impact the acuity in 2024. And that's got pluses and minuses associated with it, right, if the mix shifts from that perspective. But strategically, our plan is to continue to increase our high acuity services.
Look, we're also mindful of the fact, and we don't spend a lot of time talking about it anymore, but we are still doing some work to move slightly higher volume, very, very low acuity work out of our ASCs into other settings in order to make room for higher acuity, we're doing it in a more measured way than we perhaps did in 2022, but we're still doing it. And so that also presents upside if we're successful in refreshing those partnerships. But we think that will serve us well for the longer term.
Yes. Hey, Josh, thanks for the question. Let me start with your second question and then pass over to Sun for the first one. I don’t think we see a major difference across the board. I mean, there look – there’s a lot of centers, obviously, some are more mature than others, and it’s a portfolio, right. So some are off, of course, there’s a bell curve, and some are growing faster than others, of course, from that standpoint. But I wouldn’t necessarily say or break it down by particular segments. I think the most important segmentation in 2023 was that you could clearly see the GI only centers grew faster than others on average. But the growth was pretty strong in segments beyond GI, but it was definitely faster in the GI only centers. That’s probably the most obvious trend that I’ve noticed. Your first question…
Thank you. As we move past the pandemic, most of the providers have been talking about kind of repricing on the commercial side in the mid-single digit range for hospitals. Can you give us an idea, given the timing of your repricing, how much of that – how much of your book was already at this higher rate in 4Q? How much do you expect to be in the rate for 2024? And is there any aspect of that includes covering some of the unreimbursed physician fees for the third party anesthesiologist. So is that being worked into the rates at this point?
Yes. Hey, it’s Saum. Thanks for the question. Again, in a little bit of reverse order, I mean, obviously, we take into consideration all aspects of inflationary pressures, whether that be contract labor, physician partnerships, supply, I mean, all of it, right I mean into the way in which we approach our negotiations with our health plans. And I mean that – as we’ve indicated in the past, it’s not like somebody’s come forward in the last few years, government or private pay and just offered up CPI, right. But the thing is, we have annual escalators in all of our contracts.
We’re mindful of the fact that to deliver value, obviously, we need to have annual escalators given inflation, but it is also partially our responsibility to continue to find efficiencies in our business in order to remain valued partners to our stakeholders, again, both government and private pay. So that’s how we think about it, and that’s how we’ve been able to expand our margins over this period of time.
Look, my view is we’re generally pretty well contracted for 2024, and the bit of tailwind that we see from the recent higher than average contract negotiations should be and is part of our guidance in 2024. And my guess is it’ll flow a bit into 2025 as well, right. And then we’ll see when the next round of negotiations come up, how that goes. It’s really important to understand that part of our strategy in our net revenue per case improvement over time also relies on our ability to continue our acuity of case mix in our hospitals, so that together we’re giving ourselves an opportunity to generate that net revenue per case improvement over time. And I think the fourth quarter represented a lot of acuity that we saw in the quarter, which is why the number was so attractive. Sun?
And then, I’m sorry, your question on Conifer. Yes, now that we’ve changed our reporting segment methodology. I don’t know that we will provide that level of detail.
Yes, no, listen, I think the – first of all, the capital allocation priorities in terms of the four categories that we’ve talked about, obviously USPI, again, I can’t emphasize enough, being importantly supportive of our acute care hospital portfolio to maintain them strong and very desirable assets by all stakeholders is really critical to our overall strategy. The deleveraging that we’ve talked about, and then obviously, the share buyback program that we have authorized, all remain absolutely important priorities to us as we look forward. Now, you point out really, it’s a really important point, which is a little bit of my commentary at the end of my prepared comments about we’re entering a new era for us, which is important for us to collectively think about.
And if you think about on this call and what I’ve alluded to, it has raised the question about where are we thinking about leverage targets which we have not given specifically in the past, what are our capital deployment priorities going to look like and how will they be different? There are some people that would ask, and we certainly would consider, are there enhancements in our capital allocation, into our acute care portfolio, in our more high return markets that we still have with us that make sense.
And then obviously, the USPI question of deploying additional capital into that segment, and I think we’ll have more to say about that as the year goes on, frankly. But those things are all on our mind. Look, specifically on USPI, we talk about historically $200 million to $250 million, now closer to $250 million in capital allocation every year. But the fact is, if you go back over the last five years and just look at what we’ve spent and average it out over those five years, it’s been quite a bit, quite a bit higher than $200 million to $250 million. We will continue to seek opportunities to add high quality ASCs to our platform, and obviously are comfortable going above the $200 million to $250 million if those opportunities exist.
I mean, the other thing I would say in particular with the exchange growth is that I just would remind the group that we feel pretty good about how well we’re contracted in the exchange environment in the states that we operate in. Both applicable by the way to the acute care portfolio, of course, but also applicable to our USPI platform. So just as a note on that.
Okay. I’ll leave the surgical day question till the end, because I honestly don’t know. Look, on your first set of questions, a few things. Okay. So, one is that we have been – obviously, we spend a lot of time talking about orthopedics, generally speaking, and obviously, the more traditional things like GI and ENT and things of that nature, ophthalmology. But the fact is, we have been focused on diversification of our platform for a long time.
I mean, take as an example, shoulder surgeries. We have had for over a year now, an innovative program that has helped us grow and develop all the protocols for our ASCs, where we do orthopedics, to add shoulder surgery to that. Now, the numbers are not as big as hips and knees, for example, but we’re well prepared to do that.
And part of our physician recruitment strategy has been to focus on physicians with shoulder – interest in shoulder surgeries in the ASC setting. Just as an example, I think you guys are well aware of our urology strategy, where we think there’s a very nice opportunity, especially with high quality groups, to move further into the ambulatory surgery setting. We had been growing and expanding some of our bariatrics capability there, which, again, in the ASC setting, has been reasonably stable despite the GLP hoopla over the last year. And so – and then obviously growing and expanding some of what one might consider vascular or cardiovascular. But in a measured way, as we look forward from that standpoint.
So I feel pretty good about the fact that our business development and strategic teams are thinking steps ahead. From a clinical standpoint, what we want to do. The competitive landscape in the ASC segment is active and intense, and I think that will certainly continue. Look, we think we have a lot of advantages based upon our scale, our physician relationships, our ability to deliver synergies, and also just the consistent, demonstrated operating excellence over a long period of time. And now we add to that what we think is a best-in-class revenue cycle capability that we’ve built inside of USPI, separate from Conifer, inside of USPI, that is starting to do work even for non USPI centers, which is an exciting development. So we’re doing a lot to innovate in that business to continue to maintain our leadership position. So I feel very good about where we are competitively there.