Carlos Abrams-Rivera
Carlos Abrams-Rivera
The Kraft Heinz Company (KHC) Q4 2023 Q&A Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah. Good question, Andrew. Thank you for that. The math on Q4 to Q1 may be similar, but the factors driving it are very, very different. I think maybe, Andre, if you can give a little more color as to the effects of both the North America business versus the emerging market business and how that's shaping kind of the math behind the numbers?
Yeah. And frankly, Andrew, if I think about Q4, let me start with some of the positive, which is we also saw the return to growth of our Ore-Ida business, driving both growth and share performance as we continue to leverage kind of the new partnership we have with our Simplot and really being able to service the business to its full potential.
Now on the kind of headwind side, I think we saw some challenges in our mac & cheese business. Frankly, it's a business that is driven disproportionately by our SNAP exposure. So that affected some of the business in Q4. However, as I think about going forward, there are three key things we're doing to make sure we improve the trajectory: One, we're also making -- we are investing further in our new campaign behind mac and cheese and driving new innovation behind it as well. So, you'll see from us additional areas around bringing new SKU flavors. We're bringing variety packs and we're bringing, you may have seen a new plant-based option with mac and cheese in a partnership with NotCo.
We're also making sure we continue to drive even better value with mac and cheese by leveraging the fact that we have in our portfolio, partnership that we can do with brands like Oscar Mayer to offer truly a complete meal solution for consumers, plus offering multipacks around 12 packs and 4 packs in different formats to different types of consumers who are looking for value.
And then finally, we're also making sure we're partnering with retails, we're actually improving the overall assortment to optimize the traffic down the aisle. So, I feel very good about the fact that the team have been able to acknowledge what happen and taking -- creating a new plan for us into '24 to improve the performance of Easy Meals.
Thank you.
Glad to. Let me start by clarifying something you said in your question. In our Foodservice business, we are growing both ahead of the industry in North America and International. So, I think that we actually feel very good about our performance on Foodservice, and we see that as we go forward into 2024. So, we see Foodservice growing in 2024 in our long -- appropriate with our long-term guidance.
So high single digits. So, we think actually it's going to be a continued driver of our performance as we go into 2024. And frankly, we see that us having even more coming as we go forward because we are not only performing well where we are, but we also are improving by getting into new higher margin channels like independent and non-commercial channels, plus driving big innovation, leveraging our technology, leveraging the iconic brands that we have.
So until now, we have seen the beginning of the potential of Foodservice and that is actually driving faster growth than we have seen in the industry. And we actually believe that between the innovation that we have, between us going into new channels that are higher margin and more attractive, we can actually make that even a faster growing part of our portfolio as we go forward.
Let me just say, I think you are looking at the slide incorrectly, and happy to follow up with you …
Thank you.
Good morning.
Right. Let me just -- let me unpack that a little bit. First, as you -- as Andre mentioned earlier, there is some factors specifically affecting our Q4 performance in terms of trade as well as inventory that we're not going to repeat as we go forward. As we go into 2024, if I think about, first, the top line, we are going to continue the progression of emerging market at Foodservice. And then emerging markets already growing volume. We have seen the progress of our Foodservice business growing faster than the industry. And in North America on the top line, we actually expect to recover share as we are now making all the payoff of the innovation investments we have made, we'll start seeing that coming throughout the year. So I think that idea of us continue to invest in the right things behind our insights in North America, it's paying out with innovation. And then it also to have the right business plans with our retailers. Those factors actually are going to help us drive the top line with confidence.
If I think about kind of the -- specifically, you talked about volume. One of the things that we are looking at is we are anticipating a return to the historical activity levels. And in fact, we are seeing that already. So, we are expecting volumes to turn positive in the second half in the year because as I mentioned, the idea of us continue to invest in innovation that actually will give us the right tailwinds as we go into the year, plus we no longer will have some headwinds associated with both pricing that we took in Q1 of last year as well as the SNAP benefits cycling that as we go into the second half of the year. So that also -- that all together gives me the confidence that we can see that us coming together with a better performance we're going to '24 in a way that actually allows us to exit the year in an algo for us as a company.
The one thing I would add too is as we go into -- those of you joining us in CAGNY, we'll be able to unpack to a little more of our investments we're making. I mentioned quite a bit about innovation, about how we are going to continue to invest in our brands, making sure they are superior to our competition. So I think you'll see a little more details that from myself and the team when we're together in Florida.
Thank you.
Yeah. In our business, frankly, a lot of our business can is, is really focused on front of the house. And we're actually seeing solid performance for our away-from-home business, both in the U.S. and as well as outside the U.S. And if you think about the fact that outside the U.S., we use that channel very much as a way for us to drive awareness and build their brands. That continues to drive positive growth for us.
In the U.S. as well, we see that even within the context of QSR, we continue to see progress and improvement. But at the same time, we're also expanding into new channels that allows us to continue to drive the growth, whether that is from our vending opportunities into new hospitality areas. So, we also are having a little bit of a broader view of how we define our away-from-home business to go into new spaces that we know are margin accretive and not be dependent on just one channel in order for us to drive the growth.
Good morning, Pamela.
Let me start and give you a sense for how we see the consumer today. And then maybe, Andre, you can go deeper into the specifics about the Q4 and how we are -- how we see that playing as we go forward. But I guess the place that will start would be that what we're seeing in the data is regardless of the income levels that consumer is looking for value and they continue to be under pressure. And what we see is low income consumers are actually shopping more at places like Dollar Stores, higher income consumers, more club stores. But mostly, we are seeing them looking for overall, smaller trips to stretch their dollar further. So for us, it continues to be about how do we continue to deliver value in different ways to that consumer who are very much focused on value through intentionally investing in our brands making sure we have a longer value offerings and increasing the distribution in different channels to be what we have done in the past.
And let me just be specific before Andre give you the details on the Q4. And if I think about club channels, we have introduced a number of brands into club from Capri Sun to Lunchables Classical Pasta Sauce. In fact, we also tested new innovation in our club channels. And in 2024, we'll have 20% higher number of offerings into club that we did in 2023.
Now if I think about the enterprise points in the category and the SKU that we can have in kind of areas around Dollar Stores, we're actually making sure that we're driving things like improving on assortment of barbecue and mustard or crab of mayo and salad dressing as well as new items around Taco Bell and our partnership that we have in order for us to drive expanded use of our Mexican initiatives. So if I think about Dollar Store, we actually have today over 300 SKUs. And year-over-year, we're going to be increasing about another 10% versus what we had in the past.
So, we are making sure that we are in the right channels with the right assortment and continue to invest in our innovation in order to make sure that we could absolute consumers looking for value independent of where they're looking for different occasions, different formats, different shopping behaviors.
And now, Andre, if you want to give a little more context on the Q4.
Good morning.
And I think you will see is that how the investments we have been making in technology, the partnership we have been making in digital are basically fueling a lot of that efficiency in a way that actually creates some benefit for us for now and to the future as well. And again, will impact that even further when we are together in Florida.
Happy to. I think if we think about what we have mentioned in terms of value and how consumers are looking for value in the U.S. is similar as well, too, in terms of consumers in Europe. I mean, they are looking for that value as well. And we are continuing to make sure that we're bringing that value through the critical brands that we have, like our Heinz business in the U.K., for example, and how we continue to bring the products to the market that bring a number of improvements on our quality of our products as well as focusing on the benefit that we bring.
So, for example, a product like HEINZ Beanz and the fact that brings kind of such a benefit around protein, that's something that is kind of now shifting in terms of how we think about that product. The fact that we're also bringing within certain part of our categories, new entries by leverage to our brands. So, in baked beans we will have not only the HEINZ Beanz, but we also have HP baked beans. And that allows us to actually play in a couple of different areas with consumers, both at a more mainstream as well as to more value. And then in places like Germany, we're also introducing new benefits to consumers as they are looking also again for value, whether that is Heinz Mayonnaise in new channels in the discount spaces, but also making sure that we continue to bring the innovation consumers are looking for from us. Like our Heinz Tomato Ketchup with zero sugar. So, we are approaching it with the same sense as we do in the U.S., which is let's make sure we're in the right channel with the right assortment. And at the same time, let's focus on bringing -- and focusing on the benefits that we bring with our products.
Thank you.