Marvin  Ellison
Marvin Ellison
Lowe's Companies, Inc. (LOW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes. So on the mix, that's directly correct on the percentages. And look, we feel good about the resilience of our Pro customer. And as a reminder, our customer is a small to medium-sized business owner. We're actually pleased with the survey results, where they feel confident that they can build, the backlog is consistent with what they saw last year, and that they can continue to drive their business.
And again, they're cautiously optimistic based on what they know. But that gives us confidence that the things we're doing around loyalty, around product assortment expansion, around service levels, our digital platform, and how we've dramatically improved that and we think we have a best-in-class experience is resonating.
And relative to the DIY, I mean, we equally feel good about the level of execution in that business. I mean we view this broadly as a macro issue versus a strategic issue or any type of an execution issue.
As Brandon and I both said in our prepared comments, when we think about the medium to long-term, we're very bullish because we've made tremendous investments in this business across supply chain, IT infrastructure, omni-channel, localization, assortment, planning, space productivity, store environment and service levels that we know are going to pay dividends not only in the short run while we deal with this macroeconomic headwind, but when the market recovers, we think we're perfectly positioned to grow and take market share.
No. Look, it's a fair question. I think the best way for me to answer would be our customer service results. And when you look at the fact that we have improvements in both Pro and DIY 200 basis points for both. That gives you an indication that our service levels remain extremely high and also gives you an understanding of the power of our PPI initiatives, because a lot of our expense takeout is not the traditional cut payroll. It is more about the investments of technology that drives productivity that allows us to add more hours to driving service and selling and taking hours out of tasking. And Joe's talked about this for five years. We're trying to build a model where we invest technology and we drive productivity that allows us to have more customer-facing associates and less tasking.
So we believe that our activity-based staffing model puts us in a great position that when sales go up, we invest the payroll based on the activity driven to create the sales. And when sales come down, we have an activity-based system that we think is best-in-class, that we can take hours out based on department level, day and hour that we think will drive the business from productivity standpoint, but without hindering service. So we feel good about the whole model and we don't think there's any negative implications of sales going up and SG&A not being able to be managed as tightly and as efficiently as we've managed it the last couple of years.
One last point, I mean that's just one example of many initiatives that, that Brandon and I both have on our timeline that we've yet to develop and yet to implement. So this is an ongoing process that is alive in the world in every function, including merchandising, as Bill outlined in his prepared
Well, I'll give you my perspective, Simeon, and I'll let Brandon provide any additional comments. When you think about the cadence of our comp sales for this year, as Brandon mentioned, it's more indicative of year-over-year comparison versus our forecast that the market is going to improve at some point this year. We hope that it improves and we are positioning ourselves that when that happens, we think that we will have outsized top and bottom line growth. But our perspective of 2024 is that we're going to feel this DIY pressure throughout the year and we're going to perform at a high level irrespective of kind of what type of macro environment that we're dealing with. I'll let Brandon add any additional comments.
Chris, let me -- I'll hit the weather themes first. And it really was just a January winter, extreme winter weather story, impacted January as we sized it about 200 basis points of impact on the month. It had an outsized impact on our Pro business over those weeks. The other weather theme also just to mention is we've cycled two straight years of hurricane recovery with Ian and Ida. It's about 150 basis point comp impact to Q4 just cycling that. But again, that was all baked into our expectations. And in terms of just what we saw through the holiday season, I'll actually toss it over to Bill and he can give a view on what we saw in terms of consumer behavior there.
And Chris, this is Marvin. Just one last point on appliances. The work of our market delivery supply chain infrastructure is going to be significant not only in 2024, but for years to come. We're virtually the only national player that can deliver major appliances next day and today in virtually every zip code in the country and that's significant. In addition to having same day capacity for customers that have emergency purchases, we still have take with inventory in virtually every store where a customer can come in and literally leave with an appliance within the hour. And so our model is difficult, it's not impossible to replicate. And the brands that Bill and his team have brought to our assortment is something that we think will continue to work for us.
And look, we'll work and manage through the macro environment. And I think Bill and his team have done a really nice job, and we'll continue to listen to the consumer and pivot based on where they want us to go.
Yes. So Kate, this is Marvin. I'll take the first part, and I'll let Bill and Joe jump in on the second part.
But if you think about the DIY consumer for a second, the consumer is healthy and we feel good about the financial worth all of that consumer. They're simply choosing to leverage their spend in different places. As we've discussed and it's not just us, but in all the different companies that talk about consumer spending, customers are just spending more of their wallet on experiences, on travel, on concerts, on restaurants, because of this whole post-COVID relationship of getting back out and getting back to normal.
And also, I don't think it's a surprise for us to say that customers purchased quite a few home related goods during the pandemic. So we're still working through that cycle. Having said that, we believe that we will work our way out of this macro environment at some point. We're not trying to call the timing on it. Our objective is to continue to invest in our business and execute at a high level. So whenever that consumer spend reverse back to normal, we're going to be in a perfect position to take advantage of it.
One of the reasons why we launched our DIY loyalty program is specifically for the DIY consumer to give them some level of rationale to choose us over someone else, and to create a level of differentiation in the marketplace both in-store and online, so that we can be a preference for the DIY consumer.
And so as we think about what they're buying and where we think that big ticket is going, I think it remains to be seen. But we feel good about what we're positioning for those consumers and we'll wait on whatever timeframe occurs for them to change their spending habits.
Hey, this is Marvin. I'll take that final part of your question. So on the new store openings, its -- we're going to always look for what we describe as real estate voids around different parts of the country where we believe that we can get the right return on our capital for new store investment. But candidly, I mean our focus is on space productivity. We have such incredible upside opportunities in our stores to just invest capital in our existing infrastructure and create space productivity. We think the return on invested capital is significantly greater in using our dollars for that versus opening new stores with expensive real estate where we're struggling to get those investments to pencil. And again, we'll open a handful of stores for voids. But you're going to see us spend a ton of time on driving space productivity and creating greater value from the assets that we already own. And that's going to be our key focus.
Relative to rural, we're extremely pleased with the performance of those 300 plus stores. When you think about categories like pet, things like clothing and automotive, they're positive performing, outperform the company and most other merchandising categories, and you're going to see us start to expand some of those rural categories in non-rural locations around the country.
We wanted to make sure that we learned enough about the consumer demand and enough about how we serve customers well. And Bill and Joe and their teams have done an exceptional job. And so you're going to hear us continue to talk about this, but it's something that we're very pleased with, and you'll start to see it show up in more places around the portfolio of our stores.Joaquin Duato
Thank you, Joanne, and good morning, everyone. First, let me remark the strong close of our MedTech business in 2023. We delivered annually more than $30 billion in sales, which is -- were all-time high in our company history with operational -- adjusted operational growth in the fourth quarter of 9.1. So very strong results across the board in electrophysiology, in heart (ph) recovery, in surgery, in orthopedics and in Vision. So when we think about our results in 2023, we think it's going to be aligned with our competitor composite for the year, but ahead of our competitor composite in the fourth quarter.
Now, certainly, COVID-19 impacts have stabilized globally and while we continue to see some challenges, macro challenges from the point of view of inflation, hospital staffing and the like, there is a bolus of patients coming out into the market after COVID-19, which has made 2023 market growth faster than historical averages. And we see that trend continuing into a good part of 2024 and therefore, being a tailwind into 2024. There's a lot of factors playing into that. But overall, we see the amended procedures continuing into at least the first half of 2024.
Now we also have a number of tailwinds on our side other than the procedures that make me optimistic about 2024. We have the trajectory of Abiomed in heart recovery, which is very strong with the adoption of Impella 5.5. We file already for our Impella ECP, which is the smaller version of Impella CP. In orthopedics, we continue to move into higher growth markets with the expansion of our VELYS Robotic-Assisted Solution. We obtained CE Mark in Europe. In surgery, we continue to launch innovations across our surgery business with the , in Energy and ECHELON 3000 as a stapler. And we continue to see good expansion of our Plus Sutures too.
In our Vision business, we are expanding our TECNIS family into the premium segment of IOLs. And finally, and I know this is an area of interest to you in electrophysiology, we continue to expand our PFA portfolio of catheters. We obtained approval for our VARIPULSE, loop catheter, PFA loop catheter in Japan at the beginning of this year. And we continue to roll out the global launch of QDOT MICRO, our newest radio frequency ablation catheter. So overall, a number of catalysts and tailwinds into our MedTech business into 2024. As we discussed in our Enterprise Business Review, we continue to see our MedTech business growing at the upper end of our markets and becoming a best-in-class competitor in MedTech.