Cristiano Amon
Cristiano Amon
QUALCOMM Incorporated (QCOM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thank you so much, Samik, for your question. For those that have not seen, I think, I would recommend to see the highlights of our Snapdragon Tech Summit that just happened a couple of weeks ago when we announced the results of our investments in Gen AI. I'll tell you Samik that on-device Gen AI, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, are evolving in parallel to the cloud. And it's going to have a significant impact in how you change the user experience. Just think about a simple use case as you're texting, every single test that you write could be an input to a model, and that could bring prediction of your behavior and bring other applications.
We demonstrated a number of use cases. They're under development by many other OEMs. There are a number of different models from large language models to large visual models. One unique position of Qualcomm we have many of those models running natively on a platform. We're creating a model zoo for Snapdragon. And you saw announcements from Microsoft, from Meta, from what we're doing on Android, we're doing with our Chinese partners. And you're going to start to see those signs. Especially what flagship device is launching in ‘24, as you started to see those use cases changing photography, changing, messaging, changing scheduling, changing assistance, how you should think about this financially for us? You have the potential to create a new cycle for phones, and it will have an impact on increased silicon content. Just to put in perspective, we have significant increased the processing performance of our AI, processing in the device or NPU is going to have silicon content, is going to have an impact on mix, and it's going to have an impact on unit of all of it. And it's likely going to start as use cases get developed with flagships launching ‘24, but it could be very significant as you look at the next two to three years.
Very good question. Let me unpack that question. Let's divide the conversation in two. I think the first part of the conversation, as we said in the prepared remarks, we're happy that the inventory dynamics that we have seen within the Android, business are largely behind us right now. And, one data point that we provided in a cautious, I think, remarks is sequentially from Q4 fiscal to our guide, we're seeing a total growth of revenue from Chinese OEMs, both in China and outside China of 35%. And I think that shows that our customers are in a great position. I think even facing new interests in the market. And, it's also strength of our road map and the stabilization of the market.
The second question is about Samsung, look, we're happy with partnership with Samsung. There's the upcoming launch of the GS24. We expect to have the majority share. Our product is really great. I think as I said, we probably have one of the best product roadmaps in the history of the company, especially in the Gen AI processing capabilities. And the product is getting better. We were happy to talk about what we have done in PC with our new Oryon CPU. That CPU was coming to mobile especially in ‘25, and we expect even more, I think, evolution of Gen AI.
So the roadmap gets better over time. Overall, we're positive about our relationship Samsung. Thank you.
Thank you for the question, Matt. I think maybe separate and first, as we indicated in the last earnings call, I think we indicated that we don't have any more projection of selling our 4G, I think, SOCs to Huawei. And, going forward, we don't expect to have any significance, it's going to be a very small, I think, contribution from Huawei. I think the more interesting answer to your question, and that's the reason I provide the 35% data point, is as Huawei launched the device, we what we are seeing from our customers is continue, I think, growth from our customers on the Android side. We see a mix improvement of our customers moving towards flagship and, it's kind of reflected in our numbers.
So it does not change, I think, the trajectory that we have with our Android customers in China. And there is a possibility that I think that Huawei is upgrading their existing customer base. You know there was a data point, there's about a 100 million Huawei former customers with a four to five year old Huawei phone, and that could have an impact on increasing the TAM.
Look, there's a lot to unpack here. I can speak about this for a whole day, but I'm going to try to be succinct. First thing, we're incredibly proud of the accomplishments of our team. I think, Snapdragon X Elite took the leadership position in this space for any mobile computing device. We're incredibly happy with performance of the new CPU, both single-threaded and multi-threaded performance. But not only that, I think it's important to highlight the AI processing capability because that's key to answer your question.
If you look, versus announcements on NPU or some of the other ARM competitors. We had 45 tops performance on the NPU with a total tops performance on X Elite of 75. And that aligns with the transition that Microsoft is making towards a Windows AI future, especially the new services with the Copilot and everything we're doing with Microsoft, on-device working together on-device AI with the cloud and with the Azure endpoint. We're excited about that. And you should start thinking about the PC business, almost like the auto business. We're focused on next generation PCs, not existing PCs, and as those windows started to switch to Windows AI and our platform launches. it create opportunity for us to start gaining scale.
Specifically to your question. Microsoft has been very active together with us of bringing a lot of applications natively through the platform. I think we had, a significant progress made across consumer in commercial applications. You continue to see announcements and Windows 11 can also run every, x86, 32, and 64 bit to the Microsoft emulation. We also made significant strides in the emulation performance. So, I think Snapdragon X Elite represents the results of this Microsoft Qualcomm collaboration. And I'll finish the answer by saying, if you look at the announcements of other computing companies talking about having an ARM based PC preprocessor, that is validation that that's our TAM now. It is going to be part of the expansion of TAM for Qualcomm. We're a new player and we look at this as a growth opportunity. We’re excited about it.
Look, let me start and see if, Akash wants to add any, something else to the answer. The way we think about this is let, you rather than provide a specific dollar content is, it has a mix improvement and it will drive towards a richer mix of higher in premium tier devices. It has an ASP increase, especially because of the accelerated performance for AI. And we're combining that with significant advancements in CPU and GPU as well. And it has the opportunity to drive units, whether it's a new upgrade cycle, or share gains. Akash, I don't know if you want to add anything.
You know, Ross, this is Cristiano. Just two things I want to add real quick on the first question and then on this. As, we can scale in markets, for example, such as auto and in certain segments of the IoT, like PCs, XR, those things, they also have the opportunity to give us operating margin efficiency because our R&D is highly leveraged, especially on the computing the connectivity part. So the more that we get scale, we’ll continue to probably be accretive to margins.
I want to make a quick comment on your IoT. You should look at the IoT dynamics, not all IoT are created equal. I think we have a lot of things within our IoT. So there's existing business that are subject to the some of the inventory dynamics, but there are new growth opportunities there. One of I remind everyone that PC is in there, which is, likely going to be material in fiscal ‘25, if you think about devices with the X Elite or launching towards the second of ‘24, you have XR, which was still in the early phase of that opportunity, it has networking, we have Fiber, we didn't have it before. So, I think we're positioned now to expand in networking with Fiber and 5G and Wi Fi-7 is positive. And, you know, it has still an opportunity to move, processing to the edge when IoT next. So, we're going to be -- those are less subject to the some of the cyclical dynamics we're seeing right now for existing business. Thank you.
No, Thank you all for listening to and participating in the call. I just want to say thank you to our employees. Our suppliers, our partner, and I think we're being focused on the things we can control and really focus on building incredible, I think, products as we continue to change Qualcomm from a communications company to a connected computer company and go into new markets. Thank you again and looking forward to talk to you all next quarter.