Mark Lashier
Mark Lashier
Phillips 66 (PSX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yeah. Manav, thanks for your comments. I’m just going to make some high level comments and then turn it over to Tim. But I appreciate you recognizing that we are delivering on the integration. The integration has been a success. The DCP team is fully integrated into Phillips 66 and performing seamlessly, and we’re seeing great, really synergies across the whole value chain that even down at the level of communications, things happening quicker, things -- better decisions being made faster and it’s really been something to behold. As we noted in the comments, we did hit $250 million of synergies captured and we’ve got a line of sight on another or getting that up to $400 million plus. And Tim and his team are hard at work, so I’ll let him give you some more color on that.
Thanks, Manav.
Good morning, Paul.
So, Rodeo performance in the fourth quarter versus the first quarter.
Yeah. And Matthew, I think this just demonstrates the resilience of CPChem across this down cycle. They’ve done relatively well, been able to run at high rates and compete, and be cash positive and show bottom of the cycle returns that we’re happy with. We’re anxious to see them come out of this cyclical downturn, but they are really, really well positioned for the long-term.
Yeah.
Well, I won’t go into a lot of detail on that, Theresa, but what I will tell you is we’re long. We are long on NGLs. But actually, we want to be and that’s by design. We offload to third parties to run some of our product for us, whether to transport or whether to frac. And at some point, I’d like to think over time, as we continue to build scale on the integrated value chain that we’ve got, we’ll bring those volumes in-house. But at this point in time, like I said, we’re long and we are for the foreseeable future on NGLs.
Yeah. As far as asset sales go, we said before that everything we have has a value and we understand what that value is and that’s what we’re focused on. If we can capture more value from someone else owning assets, then we’ll do that. But having said that, we are in some active discussions as we speak. There’s a number of processes underway that we can’t comment on, but all I’d say is, leave it there, that we’ll have more comments likely at our first quarter earnings call.
Yeah. Particularly in Chicago where the crack is now close to zero, a number of factors have caused that weak gasoline margins. Demand has been poor due to winter weather, which affected production, demand more than production. Refinings have been running strongly there. And then the upper Illinois River was frozen for 10 days, which blocked U.S. Mid-Con or Chicago exports from getting to the U.S. Gulf Coast.
So kind of our view there is Chicago refineries are soon going to be in turnaround and there’s a closed arc from the U.S. Gulf Coast up north. We think things will clear up, particularly as winter grade gasoline has moved out of tank and the market switches to summer grade gasoline.
I would say, first with Russia, now with the Red Sea, we have been seeing different arbitrage, different places. As you know, Russian barrels are going different places than they used to. But by and large, it’s just increasing freight rates and time. For us, that’s actually helpful because as it does that the European type barrels, the Brent TIs widen out and we buy more barrels at basis WTI, so for us, it’s a benefit. Also, we have a strong and robust bunker fueling business, which also benefits from the higher bunker sales for the longer voyages.
Thanks for all your questions. I’m going to wrap up with slide 13 and have some comments about where we’ve been and where we’re headed. You’ll recall back in 2022 at our Investor Day, we set some pretty ambitious goals and those goals were based on shareholder feedback.
Then in 2023, we focused on what we control and we delivered on our plans with strong operating and financial results. Those results enable us to deliver the attractive returns to shareholders that you heard about today.
Now, in 2024, we’re raising the performance bar once again to enhance our ability to reward shareholders with strong returns now and in the future. For those of you that are invested in Phillips 66, we thank you for your