Frank Bisignano
Frank Bisignano
Fiserv, Inc. (FI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
I would just say, we talked about Brazil. We've worked on that for a long time. You should expect us, to have further country rollouts. You heard us talk about - the Deutsche Bank JV Vert, which has begun to hit some strides and getting traction. You've always heard us talk about beginning to proliferate the ISV channel, and that fundamentally, there was nothing about our back book in that set of numbers, either of course we have done natural 90% new ad and some back book that just converts centrally.
And I also would highlight the pen rate, is the number we talked about. We definitely were about growing ARPU, and you see that pen rate up at 19%, which kind of tracks exactly we'll be laying out to the path we believe we're on. So Clover continues to do its job. The distribution networks we have are unparalleled, and we're bringing more function into it, and more geography into it so David.
Well I mean, I think it's all of the above. I mean, I suppose you might be also referring to those CashFlow Central wins we talked about, new product rollout, tremendous opportunity there. It's another area where we're helping out banks generate revenue, deliver better technology products, to their client base.
And then we also believe that we have a lot of cross-sell opportunity, but we have a very large pipeline of just play on new wins. And you should expect us, to continue doing what we've been doing. And our expectation is we'll always do more.
Yes. I mean, we really do like our hands across the Board in the company. You've seen us add things like Fintech, which I think really compliments our ability to compete anywhere, anyhow, along with DNA, which has really proved itself. If you go to a merchant business, we're still largely focused on building out more verticals. That would be retail and services and continuing to complement, what we're doing in Bento.
I think - our software stack is strong and we're continuing to add functionality to it. We think our pen rate will continue, to do what we've forecasted. Obviously, we're always looking at opportunities to invest, as a minority investor and you've seen us do that and things like Bento and Fintech and others. Ondot, which ended up being in more than a thousand institutions, tagged to our mobility product to - give an unbelievable experience to a thousand banks.
So I think we feel good about our hand. We're always looking at can we add software functionality, and you should expect us to continue, to be great stewards of capital deployment, as I hope you all feel we have been.
Dan, were you asking, if you look at the 40%, what component was largely software and what component was Clover capital? Was that the question you're asking?
It's software dominated. I mean it would be, I'd call it, large majority software.
That's okay.
That's why we got four years here.
Well, as I continue to say, we have been committed to debit network, STAR and Accel, their strategic assets within the company. As Reg II turns into reality. You've heard us talk about nearly 20 wins. Obviously, we compete at every level. There's fabulous competition out there for these transactions.
But embedded in what we're looking at is, obviously more opportunity than we had before Reg II and the fact that some of those household names that, you heard like HelloFresh or Lyft, or others give us that opportunity. So, I think it's off to a decent start. It remains to be determined over the longer haul, but we feel good about the Reg II opportunity.
Thank you.
Yes. I think there's a series of factors. I'd go back on the full year 4%, with non-periodic revenue. And clearly, we ultimately sign a number of transactions, but they became ASP instead of license, which we thought we had visibility license. We also like to remind everybody that fourth quarter historically, is where fourth quarter in the last month is where these things happen and going down to the wire.
Like it wouldn't any software sales, as I know, having been a large buyer of software for years and jobs I have done. So, I think that - it's not necessarily a trend, but it does have clients, and we saw it last year, too, in different ways. Clients who believe that given regulatory, given cyber, giving a series of factors.
The ASP model will help their P&L, and their ability to perform better than the license would have. I think it's an institution-by-institution choice. It's not the first time we've seen it. And I think a lot remains to be determined.
Well, yes, let me bring pure clarity to what that is, because there's clearly lots of questions about why Fiserv is applying for a bank license. And obviously, before we did that, we talked to the ABA, we communicate to our clients. It's a very specific purpose license that allows for sponsorship of merchant acquiring. Historically, you needed a bank and that's within the Visa and MasterCard rules.
And our ability to be able to have an institution for that sole purpose that will allow us, to be a sponsor for our own merchant acquiring in certain instances, will be valuable as we can control more of the outcome than we could before. Very specific purpose very clear to our banks. We're not competing with them. We have great bank partners, as you know, probably the largest bank portfolio in the world.
When you take merchant business and all our other businesses, and where our business to help our banks grow. This ultimately supports our smaller banks, who do not have sponsorship and we can bring it. It became more, clear in the merger when we were able to cross-sell, to our community banks and others, which we would have not have that First Data that our ability them ourselves would be very valuable.
Well, thank you, everyone, for your attention today. Please feel free to reach out to IR team with any questions. And have a great day.