Tho Wilson
Tom Wilson
The Allstate Corporation (ALL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Thank you, Jimmy. I will let, Mario, really three different stories, Mario will take you through those in, then we will do a follow-up question, and I would just remind everybody, we like -- ask one question with a follow-up, hopefully, related to the first question. But so we can make sure we get through everybody’s call. So, Mario, you...
Jimmy, this is Tom. I will start and then Mario can give -- can add on to that. I would say that the current competitive environment is still in flux. So, we raise our rates 30 points in California. State Farm gets another increase somewhere after that. So it’s too early to tell what impact that will have on volume in 2024.
We do -- our goal, though, is obviously to, one, make good money for our shareholders as first part, and as Jess said, the other part is, we need to grow. So we are -- we think we have got transformative growth in place, which is differentiated in a long-term growth plan, as well as some of the short-term things you are talking about here. Mario, what would you add to that?
Greg, I will start and Mario can jump in. So I don’t know that, I think, there is counterintuitive that as you grow your expenses can’t go down, and I would point out, if you look at National General, its growth has helped drive more scale and has brought its expenses down. So that’s just a scale-related comment to it.
As you relate -- you look at the programs we have in place on transformative growth, it’s really across the Board. Everywhere we are at where programs that are -- we have been working on for three plus years and they are rolling out as we go.
For example, we are cutting costs by becoming more digital. By becoming more digital, we can move more jobs either get rid of the jobs or move them offshore. That’s a multiyear thing. You don’t just take first notice of loss and change it in three months.
So the benefits of those programs, which we have been working and rolling those out for the last 18 months really still will get more of those benefits as we go forward in 2024 just based on the work we have already done.
In terms of agent commission, Mario mentioned this, we have changed the agent commission structure such that it pays more for new business and less for renewals and that was one of the core parts of transformative growth was how do we distribute our products at a lower price and still give people the value of an agent.
And people want an agent to buy the stuff, they don’t necessarily want to pay as much for attention. One of the underlying assumptions we validated with transformer growth, which quite honestly, a number of analysts and other people were not so sure, but you are going to keep agents head in the game?
And the answer is, yes. Look at the productivity numbers that Mario showed. Do they like having renewal compensation go down? No. Do our customers like having a better priced product? Yes. And so we choose to do what our customers want and they have worked through that. So we have a series of things that go on.
Now, we do spend money, but like -- we are doing our expenses to, first, take care of our customers, second, build long-term value. We are not running our expenses to make a particular P&L number in a quarter. We just don’t do that.
We cut advertising, as you pointed out, because there was no sense growing if you are losing money on the product. It wasn’t because we were trying to make some combined ratio target. It certainly helped that. But we are like, why go out and advertise if you are going to write it at 105 combined ratio. So we think about it economically first and in terms of creating long-term value. Mario, do you want to talk about how you are thinking about expenses and where you go this year?
But if we need to spend money to grow on advertising and we like the profitability, we are going to spend more money on advertising.
Well, how quickly will depend what happens in the marketplace, Yaron. So, I fully expect that Progressive and GEICO are going to spend more money in advertising and seeking to grow this year based on where their profitability is.
State Farm has also been aggressive in trying to grow. Although they still have to improve their price position so that they are earning profit. But I expect it to continue to be a competitive environment.
But you are right about the -- and then, it will just be how effective are we versus them. We feel -- Mario showed you the numbers, where two-thirds of the country were like all systems go. When you add in California, that’s another big chunk. So we think we have got plenty of open fields, so to speak, to run in and to compete with transformative growth.
We have validated a lot of the underlying assumptions, but we have yet to bring it to market in a consolidated way in particular states with all of our channels, that’s on Mario’s list to do this year. So we feel good about those opportunities. So we will grow as fast as we can and still make sure we have a good combined ratio. Mario, what would you add to that?
So -- hi. This is Tom. I am going to start. Our capital is always been sufficient. So it should like reiterate what the position we have had. As it relates to buybacks when we are looking at capital regenerate. We start with, first, making sure we have enough capital to run the business and to grow the business and we have -- had put aside more capital for growth, given the dramatic increase in premiums and the risk and we think by transformative growth.
We will continue to have opportunities to deploying capital and high ROEs in fact growth. So that’s the first thing we do is like how do you drive shareholder value. And so, I think, looking forward with those opportunities, we will have less capital than it’s for share buybacks that we had historically.
That said, we have a strong track record of buying shares back. I think, I don’t know, since I have been CEO, maybe it’s $30 billion worth of shares we bought back. Like, if we don’t have a good use for the capital. Then we will give it back to shareholders, because there’s no sense holding onto extra capital.
But between growth in the Property-Liability business, growth in some of our Protection Services, they tend to be a little lighter in terms of capital needs. And then our investment portfolio we derisked our investment portfolio last year, because of what we didn’t see as great market opportunities and if we saw there was opportunities to put more risk into that portfolio that would be another use of capital. So I think -- the think about capital we are always trying to manage and maximize shareholder value and we will do that -- do whatever form that is best.
Okay. That’s fine. So my second question really is on the expense. So one thing we hear typically from litigation lawyers is that, well, social inflation is an issue because insurance companies, carriers tend to under underfunded claims departments and often have inexperienced claim staffing. As you think about expense save going forward and as we think about re-pivoting back to growth, can you maybe help us think about what areas within expenses are you cutting and what are the areas where it is very critical and then things that are you are not going to cut on the expense side, is it possible to provide some colors?
Let me maybe address the litigation fees. Mario, can talk about expenses in claims. And then if you want, we can go above that in claims, already share just folks on claims. I am not shocked that lawyers would say that the only reason they exist is because we don’t have good people settling claims. That’s just not true.
We -- bodily injury claims are where our customers get into an accident and hurt somebody else, we take those very seriously. We try to resolve those quickly. We try to make sure people get a fair amount. So I don’t think I have seen any systemic changes either in the way we do it or the way the industry does it.
I will say there have been a couple of things that have led to increased number of suits and litigation. First is, there’s just more severe accidents. So during the pandemic, people started driving faster. They keep driving faster. And so when you look at the severity of the accidents, severity is up, and when severity is up, people tend to get hurt more, and when people get hurt more, they tend to have more damages, and that leads to a greater increase in the use of lawyers to help them resolve their claims. So that part seems completely natural to me.
There’s, obviously, been a big change in the way those litigation firms go to market. I don’t know, obviously, but if you look at their advertising spend today, it’s over $1 billion a year. So they are out looking for customers. Some of those are people who need their help because they have been in severe accidents and there are more of them. Some of them are people that maybe don’t need as much help.
They have also gotten much more sophisticated in the use of data and analytics, and trying to hunt down claimants and possible clients. Some of that would be good. Some of that -- we are not so sure they are actually doing what they are supposed to be doing.
So I think it’s just a process, like, we want to make sure people get the right amount, we don’t want them to get too little and we don’t want them to get too much, we work to do that. You saw, we mentioned in the release for sure that we have also been settling claims faster. I guess we mentioned it in a presentation as well.
So to counter that, what we have found is that if we can put more resources on a claim, settle it faster, then people are less likely to feel they need to go get a lawyer. They are happy, we are happy and it’s cheaper for everybody because nobody has to pay the 30% to attorneys. Mario, do you want to talk more about claims, maybe bodily injury, other claim expenses?
Let me link this to Greg’s question as well, because I think sometimes when we set goals out there and we talk about specific line items in the P&L, we don’t always show the subtleties of how they are linked together. So we clearly have a goal to reduce expenses related to transformative growth so we can be a low cost provider.
That said, we -- that’s not our primary goal. Our primary goal is to treat our customers really well, to build a great long-term business platform and to settle our claims and run our business properly.
So if it means we have to spend more money on claims personnel, so that we lower, so loss costs come down and we think that’s in the best interest of our shareholders and our customers, then we are going to do that even if the expense number goes up. So we put those numbers out there to help you say we are let you know we are managing them, but we are not captured by just that one-line item.
I will let Mario take on the bundling question, because we are really happy about that. Let me just -- in terms of the homeowners’ business, we really like the business. It’s -- you see -- look at our six-year combined ratio before this year, it was 92 and so really high return on equity, it’s a great combined ratio. If you look at our underlying combined ratio this year, which excludes catastrophes, it’s come down from last year.
Obviously, we had a bad two quarters -- bad two quarters doesn’t make a bad business. So we still really like the business, we have raised prices in the low-teens this year from a variety of different ways. So we like that business.
If cats is the first two quarters are indicative of where we go in the future, our cats were up $2.5 billion this year versus the prior year. So if that’s the case. I am confident we have the business model, which will adapt to it. We might not catch it before it, you won’t catch it before it happens, but we haven’t really great go-to-market business, so we are really happy with the homeowners’ business. Mario, do you want to talk about returns in the homeowners’ business and then the bundling question.
Hey, Josh. I know you are a student of our competitors. So you see both GEICO and Progressive talking more about bundling in their advertising. They obviously see also good customers there. Our difference is we expect to make money in homeowners.
Josh Shanker
And if I just close upon that, even though we are going to see some modest decline in auto policy count due to price increases and turning the book a little bit, are you net growing bundlers every day?
I think we probably don’t give that number out, but let’s just say, we have a high focus on bundling, our agents are doing more bundling these days because we changed the way in which we reward and compensate them. So we are continuing to hunt down.
Well, I think, the first -- the principal impact of unwinding underwriting restrictions will be to kind of increase the aperture of the types of risks that we will be willing to write. Again, now that in the states that we are going to do that, we feel better and good about our rate adequacy and that’s true across segments.
So we have a pretty sophisticated approach to pricing where the prices accurately reflect the specific risks of each individual segment. So as we write more business, it’s going to be written at what we believe to be a rate adequate level.
Now, from a new business perspective, as we increase the volume of new business, that does tend to write or run a higher loss ratio due to renewal relativity going forward. So it will have some impact on our overall combined ratio going forward.
But we take that into account in terms of how we manage the business. But we don’t open the underwriting restrictions until we are comfortable with the rate level we are at. We price each risk according to its unique characteristics.
Having said that, there is a new business penalty associated with higher new business volume. But again, we factor that in in terms of how we manage the overall combined ratio in the business.
Okay. Thank you all for spending time with us this quarter. Obviously, with the sun shining a little bit and a few less cats, it gave you the opportunity to see the benefits of all the hard work the team’s been doing to improve profitability in auto insurance and making sure we keep our homeowner business strong. We didn’t really get to our other businesses, but they also continue to do quite well and our investment portfolio and team had a great year when you look at our total returns. So we feel good about where we are going forward. Thank you and we will see you next quarter.