Bill Rogers
Bill Rogers
Truist Financial Corporation (TFC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, and it's not just part of the pressure on the consumer side is we're creating, as we're really reducing some of our focus on indirect as an example. And that's somewhat offset by the growth in Sheffield and Service Finance, but that doesn’t sort of isn't a perfect balance in there. So the consumer reflects probably a little more of our own action and capital allocation than where we are from a market perspective.
And then I think as Mike said, I mean, on the C&I side, we're open for business, so, we're going to serve our markets. And I think we've got really, really strong markets. And when I think recovery comes, it will come disproportionately faster in our markets. And if that happens sooner, we'll see the benefit of that. And we'll be a recipient of that, because we are, I think, gaining share in most of those capabilities.
And then the other part I just mentioned is that like and when we're winning, we're winning more disproportionately, so on the C&I side particularly, just 15% to 20% more of the deals are in left leads as an example. So, if we look at some of our portfolio last year, we're winning more on the left side. So that's got more profitability and more tailwind in terms of an ability to expand those relationships.
So I don't know if we're being conservative to use that word, but I think we've got to sort of see what's in front of us. And hopefully by the end of the year, if the rates turn out as we all forecast, we'll see a little spur in the economy and I think we'll be direct beneficiaries of that.
Yes, Mike, I think an appropriate challenge is always, we've done a lot. So I think I'm really encouraged by the momentum and you can see it really in the third and fourth quarter. And you see that significantly and particularly the expense declines. And we're committed to what we, you know, what we talked about in September. I think our $750 million plan, I'm really proud of our teammates. I'm proud of our leadership. You know, they really got the sleeves rolled up and got after it. So the intensity that's in this company right now about being more efficient, I feel is demonstrably better. And being able to apply that over this more simplified organizational structures where we see the benefits.
So if you think about, as I've made in my comments, I mean sort of that process is complete. So now this intensity, these efforts, these initiatives, we apply that over a much more simplified business model. And the decisions that leaders are making, I think are just better, stronger decisions, which lead us to a more efficient company long-term.
Yes, so I think we've said pretty clearly that, the insurance business creates a capital opportunity for us and then like outlined that in a lot of specificity. We've said clearly that we're always evaluating alternatives and we're going to do the best thing for the insurance business and the best thing for Truist going forward. And I don't think as it relates to any specific timing and those type of things, I don't think I really should comment beyond that.
Great, thanks.
Yes, great question. And the good news is we've got a really good balanced investment banking business. So, and, you know, seeing some positive things on, you know, a lot of the different buckets. So if you think about equity capital markets, I mean they're starting to come back. I think we're starting to see some IPO components of that. Our pipeline there is probably the strongest it's been in a long time. And pipeline as active book runner. When and if all that comes to bear, I think that's we'll just have to, that'll be a little bit market dependent.
On the debt side, sort of the high yield investment grade, I mean, you've got a lot of maturity sort of running off in ‘24, so there's sort of a natural refinance opportunity. I think, again, sort of that'll be where clients are projecting where they think rates are going to come. So they've got a lot of natural things they have to do and they'll have to pick that point of demarcation where they want to start the refinancing side.
And then the M&A pipeline is really strong. We spent a lot of time in energy with our verticals and being really relevant. So the size and scope of some of the things that we're doing are proportionally higher, but we've also built this really great pipeline with our transition advisory business, with our commercial clients. And we've got more in the pipeline there than we closed all of last year, just as an example. So that's sort of that core bread and butter kind of work. And then we have things that were like public finance, which was sort of a nascent business for us 12, 18 months ago, and now starting to build up some momentum and as we see public finance opportunities starting to grow.
So we have a lot of cylinders that are working that I think can offset each other and would be a good reason that we would be confident in a pretty nice recovery on the investment banking side. It will be like everything else, a little bit quarter-to-quarter dependent, but hopefully a little less volatility for us given that we've got a lot of cylinders running.
And it's just done by segment too, Mike.
And then on your second question, hopefully, what I was indicating is that process has started. So if you look at the net new account gains we're seeing, the growth in primacy accounts, the growth in market share and investment banking. So those things are actually underway and happening. I think they'll continue to accelerate, they'll continue to build, they'll continue to manifest, as you said, both on the revenue and both on the efficiency side. I think you actually pointed out, you know, you'll see both sides of that.
Yes, I'll give Clarke to comment as well. But yes, there are, you know, part of the great part of our markets is we have a lot of in-migration. So we've had a lot of building in anticipation of that. So if you think about some of our larger markets, Austin, Orlando, I mean, some of the suspects where you've seen a little bit of that. I'll get Clarke to comment on the quality of the portfolio. So that you know the multifamily, large developers that were in and long-term the migration positive continues. So I was looking at some data interesting enough just to make a comment broadly on that. Within our markets last year, we added a metropolitan Charlotte. So just think about that in context. So we added about 2.2 net in-migration into our market.
So the overall demographics are good, but I think in fairness to your question, we probably have a little bit of a shorter term watch item versus worry item. Maybe Clarke, you can…
Yes, Matt, for right now, we're at 10.1 in building. And so I think until we get more information, until we sort of understand the dynamics a little bit more and think about our company construct, I think the best thing for us right now is to be in an organic capital building mode. So we haven't set a specific target, but I think 10 plus for the short-term, the medium term seems a good place for us to be landing right now.
Yeah, I mean, I think, Gerard, if we go back to 2019, that was a different world and a different environment, both in terms of, you know, where we were from a rate standpoint and where we were from a capital standpoint, regulatory standpoint. Now we've got Basel III in front of us. So I think in fairness 20, certainly short and medium term is not necessarily in the windshield. But I think we can continue to perform at a high level in terms of ROTCE. And so all the efficiency opportunities and things we're building, revenue growing, those are things that are continuing to build on that. So I think to think about us being a top performer in that category versus setting a specific target that was constructed in 2019 in a different environment is maybe a different way to think about it.