Jim Umpleby
Jim Umpleby
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Good morning, Rob. Starting with our inventory, as we discussed in previous calls, just because of the supply chain constraints we've had, our internal manufacturing operations are not running as efficiently as I would like. We believe we still have an opportunity to do a better job there. Certainly, the supply chain constraints have started to ease, and that's made things a bit easier, but we still are dealing with some areas of constraint. So again, I think we have opportunities there, and we'll continue to work on that and try to get more lean. In terms of dealer inventory, again, we talked about it in our prepared remarks. Of course, dealers are independent businesses, make their own decisions. And their decisions on inventory are a combination of what they see in future demand but also availability. And our ability to reduce lead times allows them and our customers to place orders later. So again, we've talked about the fact that we don't expect a significant change in dealer inventories in 2024, but again, they're independent businesses and will make their own decisions.
All right. Well, thanks for your question. Maybe just talk about some of the areas that we're most excited about as we move forward. And without putting a time dimension on this, but one of the things that we've talked about is that we believe that the energy transition will increase demand for commodities over time, thereby expanding our total addressable market. So as we look forward and you think about the increased adoption of things like EVs and the amount of minerals that will need to be produced by our mining customers to satisfy that demand, we believe that, again, it creates an opportunity for us moving forward over the next few years. And also, we're very excited about the opportunities around large engines. There's a secular growth trend going on in data centers related to -- as I mentioned, related to cloud computing and Generative AI. And so we're very excited about that. We're making an investment to increase our large engine capacity. So again, we believe that is an area of increase in our total addressable market as well. And just kind of think about around the world, one of the things we talked about in previous calls is the fact that our market in China is relatively weak. Over time, that market has been 5% to 10% of enterprise sales, and we had strong years in China in 2020 and 2021. We saw a decline in 2022, a further decline in 2023, and we expect that market to still be relatively weak again this year. So we're not in a situation where we're hitting on all cylinders in all markets around the world, both from a product and geographic perspective. Europe is, again, we do believe there's opportunities there over time depending on what happens in the economic cycle. So again, it's not a situation where if you look around the world, we're hitting at all the cylinders going as good as they can. So we believe we have opportunities here.
Well, thank you for your question. We've been pleased by the progress we've made. You recall, we started with that 2016 baseline of $14 billion, and we have increased it to $23 billion. Our teams continue to strive to achieve that $28 billion number. And one of the things we said when we laid out the target is we didn't expect it to be in a straight line. We thought it would be relatively back-end loaded. But we continue to invest in our digital capabilities, e-commerce. I talked earlier about CVAs and the other things that we're doing. We're working very closely with our dealers as well. So we do believe that there's an opportunity regardless of industry growth to increase services. And again, we continue to strive to achieve that number. One of the things that we also would notice is STUs were positive as well. And one of the things that impacts, of course, our services sales is dealer buying patterns [around parts] (ph), but we're encouraged by the fact that STUs were positive.
Good morning, Nicole.
Yeah. So as we talked about, I mentioned part of the decline in part sales in Resource Industries was relating to dealer buying patents. We don't include -- obviously, we're talking about dealer inventory, that's machines and engines. It's not actually parts. And what we did see as availability improved as we went through 2023, we did see dealers reduce their inventory a little bit. It's probably more at normalized levels now. Obviously, they'll continue to monitor it. They make their independent decisions. And as we always remind you, it's very complex, with over 150 dealers globally and a large number of parts that they order, but they obviously try and optimize their network. Next year, we do expect a benefit from services revenue growth. Obviously, if we are to achieve our target, we would hope for a little bit of an acceleration versus what we saw in 2023. Obviously, that does depend a little bit on what happens with the dealers and buying patents. And on resources, given the amount of truck utilization, we do expect services revenues to improve as we go through 2024 based on the need for rebuilds, particularly of the large mining trucks. So that's where we are on services.
Good morning, Jerry.
Well, Jerry, you recall when we launched our strategy in 2017, we really focused very heavily on OPACC, operating profit after capital charge. And we're really challenging our teams to work to ensure that we get a return for every dollar of capital that we invest. And we've also worked hard to reduce our structural costs. And again, with OPACC as our measure, that obviously helps us produce more cash. Again, we demonstrated the ability to produce higher free cash flows. If I remember the numbers correctly, between 2019 and 2022, we produced $5 billion to $6 billion of free cash flow. And then in 2020, we had a 22% decline in our top line. And even that year, even during the COVID year, when our top line dropped more than 20%, we still produced $3 billion of free cash flow. So again, we have the whole organization based on OPACC, and that's working all those levers every single day, and that helps us drive increased free cash flow.
I’m really glad you asked the question. I think, honestly, that's one thing that maybe is underappreciated about our performance, it's just our ability to produce cash and the way we really transformed the business over the last few years to produce higher free cash flows more consistently.
Good morning, Chad.
Good morning, Steve.
Well, certainly, that's what we're driving our teams to do. And one of the things we talked about, of course, is we have still constraints in large engines. And that -- we're not -- clearly, we're not running as lean as I would like in that area. And of course, when you have some issues in engines, that can also impact machines as well, just because of the dynamics of shipping engines to our machine lines. So certainly, our goal is to become more lean and to get back into a better operating cadence. And it has improved and supply chain conditions have improved, but we still have a ways to go. But again, difficult to predict how long it will take that to happen. Our engine investment, as we mentioned earlier, is a multiyear investment to increase that capacity for both new engines and for parts. And that -- I think that will be an important element of us achieving better lean operations and getting some of that inventory out internally.
Yeah. Again, most of the capital -- the investments that we're making around large engines, around parts, and new engines, that's really what the focus of it is.
Yeah. Really, what we continue to talk about is the fact that we will -- we intend to return essentially all free cash flow to shareholders over time through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. In terms of M&A, we're always open to opportunities. But frankly, we believe we have outstanding opportunities to grow our business organically. And so while we have made some relatively small acquisitions to do things like games and technology, or we think about the [SPM and oil] (ph) and gas to expand our product line a bit, we're really focused on organically growing our business because we think we have great opportunities around services. We talked about the secular growth trend around data centers. We -- LNG -- conditional LNG exports, the fact that the energy transition will create opportunities for commodities increase over time. So again, our primary focus is on organically growing our business.
Okay. With that, I just would like to thank everyone for joining the call. I appreciate all your questions. I'd like to just close by thanking our global team for another great quarter and just an exceptional record year. As we discussed, we're increasing the top end of our target range for adjusted operating profit margins, and we've raised our target range for ME&T free cash flow. And this reflects continuing healthy customer demand as well as our strong operating performance. And we remain focused on executing our strategy and continue to invest for long-term profitable growth. Again, I appreciate you joining us. Stay safe.