Bruce Broussard
Bruce Broussard
Humana Inc. (HUM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Kevin, why don't I take the industry side and then I'll turn to Susan on the margin question you had. I looked at next year as a year that I think the whole industry will possibly reprice. I don't know how the industry can take this kind of increase in utilization along with regulatory changes that will continue to persist in 2025 and 2026. And therefore, I look to the industry to have disciplined pricing as a result of this. Obviously, for us as an organization, over the last few years, we have tried to maintain that discipline.
You can see that in just our rankings and pricing. We've usually been in the third to fourth ranking, and so we've tried to maintain that. But I do believe the industry will need to price appropriately.
And just on that, Justin, what we are trying to do is be thoughtful around the profitability of the company, and we are committed to getting to restoring our margin, I want to say that. How? If we do, we do that in one year or do we do that in multiple years, is something that we're really addressing. As we've looked at the price elasticity of our members, we're really also trying to figure out where does it just fall off the cliff as opposed to losing some members or not growing as much. So we are committed to pushing, ensuring that we are going to move the margin, and at the same time, we just don't want to fall off the cliff and lose hundreds of thousands of members as a result of that. So it is just a question of timing as opposed to a question of trajectory.
Yes, well, I think it's a big assumption that competitive environment doesn't change and I'll answer your question specifically. But I do want to just reemphasize that what we have seen over the years, and we saw it in 2022, we saw it this year, that there is one, or usually one, maybe two that gets really aggressive and then they fall away the following year. And we've that over a long period of time. And as you look at our growth over an extended period of time, you will see these volatilities year-to-year. But that's really not a result of our pricing. It's more a result of the industry pricing. We usually have been fairly considerate in our pricing in the industry and have not been as aggressive as competitors and there will be one or another one that comes there.
We don't think that is sustainable. We just don't. We see the business as being much tougher as a result of regulatory environment. We see that things like what we saw this year relative to utilization, getting back to above COVID levels, we just see it not being as easy to price to membership growth. I will say that from our vantage point is that as similar to what we did in Part D, is that we'll continue to focus on what is the sustainable, profitable and the appropriate profitability within the industry and we will price towards that. And use our brand and our relationships with our value based providers, our quality scores and other mechanisms to compete. But we do not feel that pricing is how you compete.
You price to be economically solid and you price to provide value to your customer, but at the end of the day, we don't look at that as a competitive advantage. We look at our capabilities as a competitive advantage and we'll continue to focus on the capability and the differentiation in our capabilities.
Welcome.
Yes, I can.
Scott, I’ll take the competitor side and then let Susan take your other question. Obviously, this year it’s one large competitor. As you look at our sales and where we are compared to all the competitors, we’ve finished second behind the larger competitor, but a very distant second. And as I mentioned before, Scott, and you’ve seen it over the years, we do see this behavior that there’s one that sort of stands out and takes share for the inappropriate reasons around price. There are smaller players in the marketplace that maybe impact us in one market or another. But I wouldn’t get overly upset about those. We see those come and go. We just see one this year. And we suspect that for all the reasons that we’ve discussed this morning, that player will readjust in 2025.
We can.
Yes, just on the margin side, I don’t want to get into a specific number, maybe a little more of philosophy, but we do want to restore margins where they are profitable and contributing to our business in the proper fashion. And I would say historically that you can pick the years that you’ve seen that. But we do continue to reemphasize the enterprise earnings as an organization. And we look at the value that we provide across the organization not only to our shareholders, but also to the individuals we serve.
And we do find that the growth and the scalability and the integration of CenterWell offers us that opportunity to continue to expand not only our services that we find are much more effective in clinical outcomes and satisfaction, but also the ability to continue to drive better and better value for the enterprise overall.
How those get repriced into the actual product itself, we’ll look at, but we really make two separate decisions there. One decision around is this the right, both competitive and profit profile that we look into the plan? And then in addition, we also look at is this the right value that we provide on the CenterWell side and look at that.
For our competitors and their pricing and getting subsidized, I’m not seeing probably – right now I’m not seeing a significant change there. I’m seeing much more, because there’s some in-sourcing that’s going on. But I would say that the material orientation is more around market share gain and membership growth, and really using the plan for that. So, we don’t see a disadvantage in the markets that we’re competing in, that are pricing as a result of something that’s happening as a result of subsidization.
We really view the ability to continue to drive the membership growth in the total value of what we offer, and that’s around our brand, our quality and in addition the relationships that we have with value-based providers and feel that that will carry the day for the foreseeable future.
Go ahead.
Yes, the latter question I'll answer the majority of our rates are predicated on Medicare rates and therefore it's not that much of a negotiation. There might be a market here or there, that we negotiate rates on in some way, but I would say that Medicare rate really determines our payment mechanism there in the commercial book of business and we were very thoughtful on analyzing that and understanding that and it had no impact relative to our relationships with our providers. And our providers that are taking risk. We do see a number of them having challenges as a result of this. And to be honest with you, we're going to probably see more.
We have seen these challenges over the years. We don't feel that's a headwind for us because we'll adjust the benefits and that will flow to them in a positive fashion. And we are seeing a number of our better performing providers really taking v28 and we're assisting them in what they can do to manage through v28 and taking our learnings through the center well and offering that. But I wouldn't consider that to be a headwind for us going forward. But I do feel as we look forward that there will be some challenging times for the less sophisticated ones and that could be an opportunity for us as we think about center well.
And I think, just building on Susan's comment there, what we do see is in some of the higher risk areas, like Florida for example, we see the value that is offered to be much greater to the member than it is in other areas. And therefore we feel that the adjustment for the particular benefits in those marketplace has much more room than say in the middle part of the country. And so we do see benefit adjustments needed in that marketplace and there is opportunity as we look at the value proposition from a member's point of view.
And Gary, I just want to reemphasize something here that we also are very active in looking at a trend offset and we have a lot of activity going in the organization around that and we are oriented to how can we set a number of these things through both clinical actions and then also just the proper insurance that people are using the healthcare system most efficiently.
Okay, well, I'll close out the call here. And as I started the call, we are disappointed in the update provided today. And as I said many times, we take our commitment serious and -- will continue to work hard on behalf of our investors. I do want to first just continue to reemphasize that although the near term impacts of the higher utilization are disappointing, our confidence in the long-term attractiveness of this sector and our position with it has not changed one bit. I do want to say thank you for both your time today and our 65,000 employees for their dedication and support for our business and individuals we serve. So thank you and have a wonderful day.