Andrew Witty
Andrew Witty
Hey Justin, thanks so much for the question. Let me just make a couple of comments, and I'm going to ask John Rex to give you a little bit more detail on the area you just talked about. So, you know, I think overall, as we look at '23, overall, it came in very much in the sort of zone we expected toward the top end of that zone, but very much within the zone of what we were expecting for the full-year and we signaled back in the middle of the year. And the bulk of that story is driven by the outpatient shift in behavior around seniors that we talked about back in June.
You're right, though, post the investor conference, what we certainly saw was a click up in some seasonal activity, each of which individually are kind of pretty small. But added together just made a bit of a difference in that last run out of the quarter, around things like RSV vaccination, which has brought with it -- dragged with it, if you will, some extra utilization of services from seniors who've come in for their vaccine.
Listen, to be clear, all of that is good news for healthcare, right? So these are seniors, many of whom had not been to the office for a long time. They've come back in and now got vaccinated. The physicians have picked up other things while they've been there. So a little bit of that going on combined with a little bit of heightened COVID activity just as we rolled out of the year. None of which we really think is durably impacting our outlook for ‘24. So we feel very solid around our ‘24 guidance point of 84, plus or minus 50 bps. Maybe, I ask John just to give you a little bit more click down kind of insight into all about them. Go ahead, John.
Hey, Josh, thank you so much. Before I ask Tim Noel to give you more detail on your question, I mean, listen, I think the way we've looked at the shift in the rate notice is, it is a three-year set of adjustments, and that's why we've been very thoughtful about how we've planned, not just, frankly benefit design, but how we continue to accelerate our management of OpEx through the organization, how we continue to focus on eliminating unnecessary care and waste within the system through our various medical management capabilities.
So it's really a three-pronged set of agendas, which we're going to be focused on over the next three years. And we've been very thoughtful about making sure that we are setting those tables in a way which we can be sustainable on through this cycle, so that we're not taking sharp left turns or right turns halfway through the period. With that kind of overall perspective, maybe I ask Tim to give you a little bit more deep dive on the competitive environment and how he is very specifically planning for this.
Let me ask John to address that A.J., thank you.
It's a good question, A.J. And as John just said, even back in the sort of second-half of Q3, we saw -- we've seen subsequently that this RSV pickup and this phenomena of more services being delivered around the vaccination was already starting as we were rolling out through Q3, which is really what explains that. So in many ways, this kind of Q3 issue, kind of, Q3 issue of negative development and then this slight pressure at the end of the year, it's kind of the same story, and which is why we don't feel it has any real direct relevance in terms of thinking through 2024.
So let me ask John to start and then maybe ask Heather to make a couple of comments on the claim dynamic. Go ahead, John.
Great. Thanks, John. Maybe, Heather, you could comment on Lisa's question around claims, and then I'd like to ask Amar also to follow up on your perspective on engagement and what's driving that. Please go ahead, Heather.
Amar?
Amar, thanks. And John, maybe just to tie up the whole question.
Yes. Thanks, John. And Lisa, thanks so much for the question. And we obviously just spent a couple of minutes there talking about engagement, and I hope that gave you a strong sense of some of the progress we've made over the last 12 months in this area. I would say we're night and day in a different position today than we were a year ago in terms of our ability to be engaged with these complex patients making sure our physicians are ready to go, that's a really important aspect of what's building our confidence for 2024. And make no apology for just spending a couple more minutes, making sure you hear some of the great work that's gone on over the last year to ensure that we've got these very high levels of engagement and real substance behind that engagement.
So that these patients will be supported and managed really positively going through '24. That's what then underpins and unlocks the whole opportunity of value based care for Optum Health. Lisa, thank you for your question. And I'll move on to the next question.
Stephen, thanks so much. Maybe I ask Brian just to give you a kind of overarching summary of what UHC has seen in its different books of business, Brian?
Right. Thanks, Brian. Next question, please.
Hey, Lance, thanks so much for the question. Before I ask Patrick to start the response on Optum Rx. First off, I just want to note a super strong selling year for us in Optum Rx, probably our best ever. Extraordinary and across a wide range of categories, plans, public service states, as well as obviously commercial. And really, really pleased with the differentiated product offering, really built on transparency, choice, and of course cost. And so we feel we've built a strong momentum in ‘23, rolling into ‘24.
Patrick, you may want to go a little deeper, maybe share a little detail on weight engaged, specifically around the question that Lance raised around GLPs?
Thanks so much, Patrick. And Lance, thanks for the question. Next question, please.
So I'll ask John to go a little deeper. Obviously, as you know, Kevin, we've set an MLR target next year, which is in fact higher than the actual closeout for this year in any case, which takes into consideration some of that kind of elevation, which we've seen throughout the year. So I'm going to call it the core elevation associated with the outpatient senior behaviors that we've been talking about now for several quarters. And then as we've talked a little bit already, this end of Q4 type of a small seasonality variation, we don't think is really durable or relevant to the rest of the year.
But John, maybe go a little deeper on that.
Yes. And I'd also just add, I mean, as you would fully expect, Kevin, we're reviewing the leading indicators of care activity, frankly, daily, weekly, monthly and have been all year. And we've also been investing significantly in increasing numbers of early warning signals, if I can put it that way, to strengthen our radar capability to see this. And I can tell you, we're really not seeing any deviation from what we've been telling you all year in terms of the core activities across the system.
The seasonal bumps at the end of the year, obviously, a little different. But in terms of outpatient utilization, all of those lines of activity that we've been discussing at different times with you, the patterns there, very supportive of how we've stepped out for '24.
Thanks for the question. Next question, please.
Scott, thanks so much for the question. I'm going to ask Dr. Desai to make a couple of comments, and then I'm going to talk about where we've staked out for Optum Health next year. A ton of work done during 2023 to strengthen the business. You saw that beginning to show through as we roll through the second-half. We continue to expect that to be a very strong driver of improvement as we go into 2024. A lot of that work we talked about already today around engagement is a key element of our confidence in being able to build our profile of that business.
And Amar, maybe you could go a little deeper, and then John can close out with discussing on the progression.
Great. Thanks so much, Amar. John?
Right. Thanks, John. Next question?
Erin, thanks so much for the question. Let me ask Heather to give you some comments there. As you know, Heather's been very, very involved with the various legislative processes, and it'd good to get her perspective on that.
Heather, thanks so much. And Erin, thanks very much for the question. I'm sure there'll continue to be debate around this area. High drug cost, of course, is a big issue for everybody. First and foremost, we need to see list prices come down. That's the most important thing that can make a big difference here. I would say that as you look at all the different ideas, which float up from time-to-time around reform in this area, there really isn't anything that we don't offer in some form or fashion to our clients and our customers.
And the reality is we think that's the right position. We think we should be offering a portfolio of different tools, different product designs, which allows people to choose what's right for them. Because what a state wants, what a union wants, what a corporation wants differs. And it's super important that their views are taken into account here. We believe we do that well in the diversity of our product offering, and that's what's underpinning our record growth and it underpins our confidence for ‘24.
Appreciate that, Erin. Next question?
Yes, Nathan, thanks so much for the question. Let me ask Tim Noel to give you that.
Hey, Gary, thanks so much. Let me ask Brian to respond to that.
Yes. No, it's well said, Brian. And I think, obviously, Gary, we -- what you seen on behalf of patients, on behalf of government to make sure that we're getting the very best cost associated for the care delivered. And it's important that, that negotiation is robust. And the good news is that the overwhelming majority get resolved. We really don't like to see disruption happen. Unfortunately, occasionally, it does. But rest assured, we're making good progress in this area. As Brian said, no real kind of difference in outcome to what we've seen in previous years.
With all of that, let me say thank you for all of your questions. Very much appreciated. And as you've heard, we're confident in our mission, focused on our growth pillars, delivering innovation that matters and disciplined in our operations and in our approach to the market. And we look forward to delivering on our commitments in 2024 to our customers, patients and shareholders. Very much appreciate your attention this morning. Thank you, and look forward to talking with you between calls. Thank you very much.