John Zillmer
John Zillmer
Aramark (ARMK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure, I'll start with supply chain. First of all, compliance is just statistically measure across the Contract Food Service Business. So those statistics are reviewed with each operating business every month. They have a goal in terms of their overall compliance and are working very hard to achieve those numbers. There is always opportunity in the last year that - that was significant because of the disruption that occurred in supply chain over the course of the last couple of years. So our compliance numbers are very, very close to optimal. We continue to push and to get units to purchase the right products from the right suppliers. So there is always opportunity to improve upon that, but in general I'd say we're very close on the compliance numbers. The GPO spend today, I don't think that we disclosed with the total GPO spenders.
Yes about $16 billion which includes, both our - our Contract Food Service revenues as well as the spend that we manage for our clients through Avendra and the other GPOs we operate. So, we have - we have significant scale and we work very aggressively to utilize that total spend to benefit both our clients as well as Aramark as we continue to manage new deals with suppliers and manufacturers and that supply chain team is very expert at optimizing for all of those contingencies. So we're very comfortable with the potential growth for the GPOs. We have significant opportunities to grow both domestically and internationally in the GPO market and we see continued supply chain economics improvement as a result of that focused growth of that in that area.
And I would just add final commentary to that is that we're off to a good start in the quarter. We see continued improvement in the slow moderation of inflation that's our expectation built into the model and built into the plan. And if inflation continues to ease more rapidly then certainly we'll be able to - we're well positioned to take advantage of that. As we discussed in our commentary, we've made significant progress on the price recovery in those - in those businesses that were lagging. We saw that in the fourth quarter and we continue to see that play out in the first quarter in early days. So - so we're confident in the targets and as Tom said, we have a commitment to the goals that we established at Investor Day. We see ourselves reaching those goals and getting through them and doing even better in the long term.
Yeah, no and one of the things the mantra inside the organization is profitable growth. So it's not growth at all costs. It's growth that is margin accretive and earnings accretive, and that is what the organization is focused on. So if you look at the portfolio of business that we've sold over the last three years and this consistent ramp up to growth, it's all met our pro form a targets and our performance expectations for returns on invested capital and the other metrics we utilize to evaluate the new accounts as we sell them. So no, there hasn't been a structural change in our expectation and there hasn't been a structural change in the value of the business we've sold relative to the business that we've lost over that period of time. So I'm highly confident the growth engine as designed will stimulate this margin recovery that everybody is so anxious for us to achieve. And we believe in it and we see it happening in the business. I think if you relate – yes I think as we get through the balance of this year, we'll see continued strong performance, continued strong growth leading to that margin recovery, and hitting the expectations we've set for 2025 and 2026.
Yes, I would say we were very pleased with the results in October, one month is not a year make, but we are very pleased with the results. Excuse me. As you know, we - our units report to us on a weekly basis, we see the results as they come in. As we indicated we've seen improved performance in the price recovery area particularly in Corrections and Higher Education that bodes very well for the balance of the year in terms of that earnings improvement, so October - also we had some significant new business wins some of which we've just talked about Boston Children's and many others that we're still working to get to final contract. So we're very pleased with the early stages of this fiscal '24 as we are - as we're through the first five or six weeks.
Yes. Well, we're not seeing any verticals with share loss, so that's an easy question to answer. I think we're seeing growth across all the businesses and had net new pretty much across the board. Yes, there are some years that are bigger than others based on the size of the whales that we might sell in any given year like Merlin, last year being such a significant component of that, but this last year represented our third best historical performance for growth - for net new growth. So, we're very pleased with the results. And one of the things that people have to remember is that while we measure it in fiscal year terms and report on it on that basis, sales activity is driven by the client's decision dates. And so many of the decisions that leaked into 2024, for example, were decisions that we would have expected potentially in actually in 23%. So we don't see the change from year-to-year as the performance drop off. We just see it as a kind of a lag in decision making around some of those large customers and large clients, some of which are very significant in size. So, again our third best performance ever last year in terms of net new and again contributing to that three-year history or three-year track record of net new growth, which is quite frankly a significant change from the history of the company. So, we're very pleased with it.
Yes. I think that yes, the margin this year was - was a little over 90 approach 100 bps improvement. We still had a little bit of tailwind in - in COVID, particularly within the B&I world this year, so that helped drive that outsized performance.
Yes, I'll just add the final commentary on that. It's - we are optimizing for growth retention and earnings improvement as a result of all the growth that we're achieving and so we're - we are focused on the margin. We get it. We understand that the marketplace will reward us for improving margins over time, but we think the best way to consistently deliver margin expansion is to grow the business and achieve that margin through scale and so we're optimizing to achieve those objectives over a period of time and I'm not worried about 10 bps this year versus 20 bps next year. I'm more worried about achieving that sustainable growth model and maintaining it, and continuing to deliver for our customers’ day in and day out. And the margin is an outcome of that strategy. It's not the strategy. So we're - we're confident. We believe in the goals and we have the team in place to go ahead and deliver on it. And if we get lucky and inflation wanes more rapidly then you will see that translate into improved margin performance over time as well.
And just very hard to predict where we are today as you probably saw CPI was unchanged in the announcement this morning, but CPI does not reflect the inflation rate that we project for food product around the world, which is closer to 5% or 6%. And our teams look at food inflation by business unit, by market basket, by product category, it's a very detailed analytic that we have to evaluate it. And so we take that into our assumptions and if we have been conservative I think ultimately that plays well to our advantage as we continue to negotiate new terms, new agreements with our suppliers and with our customers.
Really no, we see growth as a path to margin expansion and that growing consistently over time leads to both AOI improvement in terms of a dollar - in terms of dollars and in terms of margin. And it comes from a couple of different sources handy is the - in both the growth in terms of the profitability from the new accounts that are added, which does scale up over time as well as the improved economics on supply chain spends. So as we add new business it provides additional spend for supply chain to manage to craft better deals with suppliers and manufacturers which leads to improved economics for everybody. So as you know, in the supply chain world you get paid for growth. And so we might get X number of dollars per case, if we're buying at a certain level and we get X plus if we're buying more. So the growth feeds the supply chain economics and then it also creates additional leverage with respect to overhead because we don't need to add significantly above unit costs when - as we're growing the business. We're able to grow the overheads at a rate that's much slower than the growth rate of the company.
So - so by maintaining that consistent growth profile over time, we deliver the margin expansion that we all - that we all seek, to shut the growth down or to focus more on margin as opposed to growth would actually be counterproductive and that's frankly what the company did back in the mid teens, back in the earlier days post IPO. The company went on a margin march and stopped growing and that's what led us to the point where we needed to make a significant strategic change. So we see growth as the optimal strategy and we can consistently deliver margin expansion through that growth. And - but we're also focused on managing the middle of the P&L. We want our people to get better and better every day at managing food costs, labor costs and direct expenses. So we give them tools and technology to go ahead and manage the middle of the P&L more and more effectively as well. So as inflation moderates, managing that middle of the P&L gets easier as well. So it's not just about pricing, it's about managing that cost structure at the same time. So but we think growth is the primary driver and will continue to be the strategy of the company.
Sure. It's actually all of those things. First of all, as you may remember as we joined the company, we went ahead and made significant investments in sales infrastructure in a couple of different ways. First by adding sales resources to the streets and that level has been now constant probably for the last three or four years. We made the initial investment as we joined the company. We made some changes in sales, leadership, and we down streamed the sales function back to the business unit. So it's now sitting in the geography closest to the customers and that way it's much closer to where the job needs to get done. And so we invested in those resources back three years ago and the level of reinvestment we've made over time has been essentially de minimis, sales manager here or sales person there dependent upon business unit strategy. So there hasn't been a quantum change since our initial reinvestment in that business.
So what you've seen over the last three years has been enhanced productivity and increasing sales volume for each sales manager based on their time and territory, based on their time back in the business which was really our strategy to begin with. We wanted people to be working in the lines of business, in the territories that they were responsible for and that led to significant ramp up of their productivity. So, we don't see the need for continued reinvestment. We think we're at a steady state in terms of the number of resources that we have. We're always - we’re always looking to optimize and we may add a person here or there depending on the total opportunity set, but in general we feel like we're in very good shape from a sales structure perspective. Tom, I don't know if you have anything you want to add to that.
Yes, I would say yes they had another terrific year in terms of net new growth consistently across all geographies and I think that is driven in large part by the stability that Tom just described. The international sales organization was largely intact and in place before we rejoined the company. So that organization has been more stable and they've been working those territories more consistently over a longer period of time. So I think that - that's worked to their advantage. I think it's also very helpful that we have a very disciplined and focused strategy with respect to growth in those geographies where we really want to be and so we're consistently focused on those markets and consistently focused on those businesses. And we're not - we’re not out planting flags in new countries. We're really focused on those geographies where we have the right to win and a competitive advantage and that's translated into continued performance improvement. So yes, we feel very good about the international team and their productivity and we've been the beneficiary of significant stability in those markets.
Yes, I think we're going to be - I think we're very close to being caught up in both of those businesses. We'll continue to work to improve in pricing across the enterprise, not just those businesses as we continue to see the need for price recovery and as inflation continues to be somewhat persistent on the food side. So we're going to be very diligent about making sure that we continue an elevated pricing strategy to recover those costs going forward, and - but I think we're in very good shape particularly compared to where we were last year when inflation was running 10% to 12% in those businesses and we were not able to price for it. So I'd say we're largely caught up and we'll continue to work to improve across the enterprise and get even better.
Yes, we think first of all the addressable market is very significant and we have work through developing kind of a new additional service model to what next level was initially providing, so we're expanding the range of services and the capabilities and focusing really on the Senior Living business as well, which is multiple billions of dollars in terms of addressable market and opportunity largely self op. And so we think that represents a very significant growth potential. There is still growth potential in the core business that next level operated and was doing so well at. So we'll continue to look at both sides of the business, both Senior Living as well as Skilled Nursing, and we'll bring a balanced approach to growing that part of the business.
Yes. We've baked an assumption of approximately 5% to 6% of food inflation globally, now it's different by market. It's 5.5% in the U.S. for the overall inflation rate for our expectations it's a little less in Canada, a little higher in Europe, and a little lower in Asia. So we do it on a blended basis based on the size of the organization, call it somewhere in the range of 5% to 6%, and that's what's - that’s what built into our assumptions and built into our planning models for the year and built into our negotiation discussions with our clients and customers. And, so that is based very specifically on individual market baskets by product for instance. We expect meat to be up 5.9% in 2024. We expect fruits and vegetables to be 7.1%. So we have - and then kitchen supplies down at 1%, right? So we've got a very detailed market basket of products by business unit that we buy and that we monitor for our locations on a monthly basis. So that's the overall assumption. And if inflation continues to moderate and we see a lowering of those expectations, we'll keep the street informed as to what we're seeing and when - and as to how we see it affecting our balance of the year.
Yes, I think, Tom will jump in here as well, but I think you'll see continued margin improvement and an outsized performance in ‘24, ‘25, and ‘26. As we continue to see the - the normalization of these phenomenon that you've just described. New business maturity we will have ramped the business for ‘24 and ‘25 or in this business sold over the course of the last couple of years. The price recovery lag or price inflation lag will be largely done in ‘24. We'll continue to see drivers of outsized margin performance in supply chain throughout the cycle. So we'll continue to get better in ‘24, ‘25 and ‘26 as we add scale and improve supply chain economics. We expect SG&A over that time period also be managed at below growth rates in the business. So - so they're all drivers to outsize margin performance and we see that model playing out consistently. Tom, do you?
Morning.
Yes, I would - I would second that I think if there is one key driver that I would call out as being a potential risk or benefit to the range, it would be that inflation number and the expectations around it. And I think we're all very hopeful based on what we see in the marketplace today and based on the actions that the team has taken in terms of pricing recovery. We're very hopeful that - that will lead to improvement so that we can be trending towards the upper end of the ranges, too early to make that call and but that would be the one key driver I would focus on. I think all the rest of them whether its new business maturity, SG&A, supply chain, those I think we're going to be very consistently delivered against those objectives. And so that would be the one variable I would - I would be most focused on.
Thank you.
Perfect. Well, thank you very much everybody. Really appreciate the time and attention this morning and the support of the company. As we've said we are very confident in the performance. We're very pleased with the year end and very confident in our performance for ‘4 and in the expectations that we've set for ‘25 and ‘26 as well. We are committed to this strategy. We're going to grow this business and deliver improved earnings and improved margins over time. And we're here to deliver on the commitments we've made not only to our shareholders, but to ourselves as well. So we're all the big believers in this strategy and big believers in this company and we're going to go deliver. So thank you very much.