Ari Bousbib
Ari Bousbib
IQVIA Holdings, Inc. (IQV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, thank you, Anne. I mean, look, we -- early last year, we're expecting that things would turn around second half of last year. And as you know, it didn't happen. Now it's got to happen at some point.
So, we then thought, well, by the second quarter of later -- at the end of last year's third quarter, I thought, okay, second quarter of 2024. We are now expecting this to happen second half. And in support of all of these, I mentioned some data points in my introductory remarks.
Look, the FDA approved 50% more molecules than last year and is the highest level since 2018. That really generally bodes well for the commercial business as our clients prepare for launching those drugs into the marketplace.
And those launches come for significant support from the type of services that we provide, whether it's data launch consulting, planning, market access, pricing support and so on and so forth. And in fact, our own market expectations of spend by pharma over the next few years, compares very favorably to the prior period.
Now, in our own conversations with clients, we're noting more optimism on the outlook for 2024. But perhaps because we've been hurt before, we've tried to be appropriately cautious in planning.
And really, when we build up the forecast for our TAS business based on the pipeline, I might note, I don't think we said that before or even if we report any of these numbers here, but we have a pipeline of opportunities with a very detailed methodology that's been proven over time.
And I can tell you that our pipeline for the year for the 2024 year is higher than it has ever been on the TAS business. So that gives us comfort that the forecast is appropriately built and hopefully, we'll be -- we have upside favorability if things work out perfectly well. But we've built enough caution on the forecast here that we feel good about the TAS business for 2024 as we presented it.
Now, a word of caution, the business saw a decline in growth through 2023 with every quarter being worse than the previous one. We expect 2024 to be sort of the mirror image of that. That is the first quarter to be more like last year's fourth quarter and the second quarter more like the third quarter, et cetera, with the ramp up through the year and hopefully building momentum as we progress through 2024.
You mean the cadence? Yes, anyone has any
Yes.
Okay. Well, thank you, Shlomo, for the question. There was no specific contract or particular award or anything like that. I would just say that, by segment, the EBP segment was particularly strong. I mentioned funding was very strong in the quarter. The highest on record.
Again, if you exclude the COVID years. And so EBP was particularly strong. I'd say with -- again, we don't talk about book-to-bill per segment, but the EBP book-to-bill, if you will, was higher than our 1.31.
So, comparatively, we had -- and I would say about 25%. Is that correct, guys? 25% of our bookings in the year were EBP. So that's a little bit of color that I can give you. But nothing -- no one time big award or anything that skewed the numbers pretty strong across the board.
Right. Correct.
Well, I don't generally like to comment on competitors. But yes, there have been a number of disruptions sort of company is being acquired or spun off in the CRO space. And that always introduces some level of disruption. I mean some of these companies have been in trouble.
The fact that, they've been acquired by private equity or conversely spun off in the public markets. Does that mean that they'll be more competitive, less competitive? It's hard to tell. It's disruption often. Often, happens.
If you take a longer view of this question, we believe that our merger seven years ago, significantly disrupted the industry and led to a large number of subsequent transactions which resulted from what we believe was reactions to the clear competitive advantage that we think we established that enabled us over the past few years to gradually gain market share. But other than that, I mean, I don't have any further comments.
And then your second question?
Yes. Thank you, Tejas. No, it's not anything -- any one contract or a specific level, as I mentioned, the overall sentiment bubbling up into a pipeline that I mentioned is the highest that we've had ever.
Now, the pipeline doesn't always translate exactly as it is. It's probability adjusted and so on and so forth, but that's a good indication from a metric standpoint that we should be up for the year. And we've built some level of cushion here because we've been burned/delayed last year. And so that's what kind of gives us a little bit of confidence along with the conversations we're having with our clients.
Again, I wouldn't -- this is not like -- we're not seeing a sharp uptick all of a sudden, okay? Our clients are -- especially large pharma, very, very focused on cost containment. They've all announced significant cost reduction programs.
Some of them in anticipation of really unknown impact of the IRA, some in anticipation of some LOEs coming soon in the next few years or other variables, but the fact is there are these large pharma cost discussions that we're having with clients as well, and we are a significant vendor and therefore, those conversations have tended to be more difficult than they were in the past with respect to negotiations and pricing and so on. That is still there.
The number of opportunities, the number of projects, the number of compensations, all of which translate into a pipeline, the request for proposals and so on that we're having are clearly up. And given the life cycle of the sales processes as we know them, we are anticipating that those would concretize into sales towards the back end of the year.
Yes. Well, look, we ourselves are, as I mentioned before, I'm putting a fair amount of caution and conservatism, if you want to call it that way in our own forecast because of some of the factors you mentioned, that we've experienced last year. The business continues to grow.
Look, the general environment so far is consistent with what we were experiencing at the end of last year. And you've seen our large cap companies that operate in the same business actually forecast even declining sales for their own businesses for 2024.
Now, we're not there because as you correctly point out, some of these services that we sell are not exactly discretionary, so look, the data business, for example, continues to hold up well. It's never been a fast growth business, but it's holding up.
We saw headwinds in the more discretionary part of the TAS segment, which is the analytics and consulting business. But I have to say that the business started to pick up a bit with sequential improvements in growth in Q4 compared to Q3. So even this more discretionary side, we saw an uptick, not -- again, not a steep curve, but we saw a positive movement even on the discretionary side.
Now, the impact on the discretionary project part of the real-world business, that is a little bit of a longer cycle within TAS, is a little bit longer cycle. We started seeing that in Q3 and continued in Q4, and it did impact the performance of our real-world business in Q4.
So, if I might summarize the data business holding up maybe a little bit even better, doing a little bit better. The totally discretionary piece of analytics and consulting, little movement and some uptick that we are perceiving.
The real-world piece, you've got the stuff that they need to do. That hasn't changed. And then there is a step that's more discretionary because it's more -- it's a longer cycle, the deceleration impacted our numbers more in Q3 and further in Q4.
So, the issues we saw in Analytics and Consulting in the early part of the year, we started seeing in real world in Q3 and Q4, and we expect that to continue in Q1. But if you -- I hope that gives you enough color here to get a sense for what we're seeing.
I mean, look, you've got a lot of hypothetical here. You're referring to a competitor commentary. I didn't hear any of that. And we're not seeing that again. This is interesting. People want to see badness and had their hat on something. I would point to you that going back a couple of years at least, people who are competitors "whining about EVP funding." and all see our stock suffered as a result of this whining, we kept telling the world that we weren't seeing it.
We ended up being correct. There was no dramatic drop-off in funding. It didn't happen. If anything, now, as I mentioned, it's even going further at record levels. So EVP is good. That actually was very, very strong in terms of bookings. We see that trend continuing.
When things get funded in a quarter, typically the bookings come in over the course of the following year. So, I don't see that happening on the EBP segment. Large pharma, yes, there is a little bit of reprioritization of projects.
You've heard that from us, from others, looking at different programs, but it's not like people are saying, all of a sudden, we're not doing research anymore. There's a little bit of -- at the moment, as we discussed earlier Ron mentioned a bit of a pendulum moving more towards FSP. But again, we play in that segment, too. We play in every segment.
But other than these dynamics, I don't see anything that would lead me to believe that all of a sudden, we have to be worried, quite the opposite. As I said, our RFP flow was up 13% in Q4, and that's across the board, strong double-digits in EBP and in large pharma as well. For the -- that was in Q4. Full year same thing, very strong and EBP even stronger for the full year.
Awards, which is sort of, if you will, a leading indicator of bookings because as you know, we and maybe a small number of others actually report bookings and book to risk based on contracted work.
Some still report only awards, which is kind of before contracted and awards are also at a record high level. If you look at our pipeline, the total pipeline is up high single-digits, in very high single-digits, again, at a record level.
Qualified pipeline, which is we look at -- we have our own methodology to screen all the opportunities and come down to those that we think are the ones we want to pursue and that are the most viable and the most likely to come to fruition. The qualified pipeline is up strong double-digits, again, across the board. So, I don't know what else to tell you. I don't -- you heard anything that I don't know, let me know.
All right. Thank you.
The question is how much of our bookings was FSP. I think a little over 20%, is that correct?
How much -- can you be more -- well, how much was EVP? 25%?
Right. And I think FSP is mostly large pharma, right?
Yes. No, no, rate card, the rates, labor and so on.
Well, again, I want to make sure -- I mean, it's not like back to business, not like people are on hold and they are not doing anything again. I mean, look, our backlog continues to grow. The RFP flow is up double-digits.
Right. We had the second highest bookings quarter ever and the first -- the one that was the highest, which was last year, I think that was -- we had a very big proportion of pass-through from specific large award. That's why it was like over $3 billion, if I recall, in that quarter.
So, this quarter, we had, what, $2.8 billion. I mean -- and that was like a regular quarter with nothing unusual, no big one-timer award or anything like that. So, it's a pretty -- the numbers are the numbers.
Now, the conversations are more difficult, longer, more negotiations, but the volume -- the answer to your question is I think the volume and the number of opportunities, it keeps going up. And again, EBP funding very strong, all-time high. We saw particular strength on EBP, and we see that continuing this year.
So not like we're on hold and thinking about when are we back to business. That's perhaps a question we were asking ourselves on the TAS segment, and that we are in the middle of, and we see some sign of green shoots as Elizabeth told us before, or Anne, I think, was the one used that expression, some green shoots on the commercial side to the back end of the year.
But on the R&DS side, we are experiencing the pressure, the more difficult environment with respect to pricing and negotiation and so on. We are in those conversations. But no one is saying, I'm going to hold, and I'm not doing anything.
Again, the numbers showed numbers of RFPs, the pipeline at an all-time high, the qualified pipeline up strong double-digits and are going across the board. It's not like there's one segment or another. So I would say quite the opposite. I think the number of opportunities, the environment is very fertile in terms of chasing opportunities and responding to request for proposals, we are very, very busy.
Yes. So again, if you take R&DS, it's not -- COVID, it's not like one project like any other. It's not the case. We really have a COVID is very specific. It took specific resources, it's specific projects. And in 2024, it's coming down by $300 million. That represents a direct headwind to growth of 350 basis points to R&DS growth, 350 basis points.
In addition, and this is more of a mix issue I mentioned in my introductory remarks, a number of wins, and we continue to win in the oncology area. We're happy about that because that's the fastest-growing therapeutic area, hands down all around. It has been for a while and will continue to be. And we are winning in oncology.
The issue with that therapeutic area is that the burn rate is much lower. It takes time. It's more difficult to recruit patients. It's more complex. And therefore, it transfers into revenue slower than anything else. And we have a disproportionate share in that market.
Third reason in the mix, we do have -- we happen to be, and that's just a consequence. It's hard to explain, but some years, we've got tailwinds from pass-throughs and some years, we have headwind from pass-throughs. As you know, pass-throughs are -- I'm not going to say irrelevant, but they come with no profit.
They come with -- it's just an artificial accounting add to our -- but the fact our buildup forecast for 2024, pass-throughs will be a headwind to R&DS growth, and that represents 100 basis points approximately of headwind to top line growth of R&DS, again, inclusive of pass-throughs.
So, if you add 350 basis points of headwind from COVID from the step down in COVID and 100 basis points of headwind from the pass-through mix, that's 450 basis points. So, you're right. But if you add back this and you normalize our underlying business is growing high single-digits, very high single-digits on the R&DS side. So, I think that's the reconciliation.
You're right, Dave, you're smart analysts and you point to the apparent disconnect between the strong growth of our bookings and the reported growth in 2024, which, again, we hope to be out of that in 2025. It certainly bodes well. 2025 should be a sweet year. I don't want to put actions for 2025 here. We're barely talking about 2024. But I think based on everything we're seeing, we should certainly be behind all of those issues. But thank you Dave, I think that was the last question. Thank you.