David Gitlin
David Gitlin
Carrier Global Corporation (CARR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, Jeff, we feel well positioned as we look at January, February, and then we do need to see that order book increase as we go into March, heading into 2Q. What we did see is exactly what you just said. Some of the dithering that we saw around legislation in countries like Germany and elsewhere did put a slight pause on new orders for a period of stretch in 3Q heading into 4Q. We now have clarity. We see the regulation coming out of the European Union, which is now looking like they're going to add a new provision that talks about not only getting to 55% renewables and reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but now 90% by 2040. You can't get there without more regulation around heat pumps.
So, we got more definitive legislation in Germany in January, which has those subsidies in the 40% to 70% range, depending on a variety of factors. We have more certainty in countries like France and Italy. We have a new administration in Poland, which should unleash some of the EU funding. So, as we look at the year, we think France and Poland will be up double digits. Germany probably in the mid-single digit range. Italy will be down a bit.
To your point, Jeff, the sales are a bit backend -- I would say the EBITDA is a bit more back end loaded for us, probably 60%, 65% in the second half when synergies start to -- we start to accumulate more synergies, especially from supply chain in the second half. So, the bottom line of what we're watching -- orders, we're starting to see activity pick up now, now that German legislation is definitized. We saw heat pump applications increase. We saw preorder activity on our website increase as we got into January, so that was very encouraging.
So, we're looking at orders, we're looking at clearly filling that second half growth. We're looking at full year EBITDA, which should be at or frankly a little bit ahead of our original business case. And we're going to be aggressive on some of those supply chain synergies to set up the second half EBITDA growth over the first half.
Yes, I would say for price for HVAC, you're looking at about 2% and 2.5% of price. The rest, volume mix.
Yes, it's more volume than price. You're probably looking at a couple of points of price, the rest volume. I would say a few things with respect to organic growth. For Viessmann, where I know some of our peers are talking about lower growth than we are, and here's, I think, some of the reasons, Julian, I would say that we have high confidence in the mid-single digit growth. Number one is that, we're not a heat pump pure play. So we have the ability to flex with boilers depending on kind of what the market conditions are. We are anticipating share gains. Viessmann has introduced new products. There's a new product line in that 16 kilowatts to 19 kilowatts, which will now give us access to more than 90% of the single-family residential market in Europe, where before that sort of higher capacity part of that segment, we did not have a product offering for, and all the way much higher than that, which gets into the multifamily.
So, we're looking at not only share gains, but we're also looking at products that introduce us into new parts of the market. The geographic mix we think plays favorable, as we see Germany start to certainly recover in the second half, we'll push on the services, and I do think there's going to start to be some level of benefit on the revenue synergies. Internally, we're targeting a fairly significant number for ourselves that we haven't put into our underlying model. So, we'll start to see recovery of heat pumps taking place. We'll still see some more boiler sales. PV may slow a little bit, which would be something that we'll watch, but it is on the lower margin side for us as a business.
So, all in all, I've had a chance to spend a lot of time with the Viessmann leadership team and the salespeople, and we're starting to see now that we have more clarity around the regulations, a lot of activity picking up that we do have confidence will certainly benefit us with growth in the second half.
Thank you.
Good morning, Andy.
Well, Andy, it's Dave. Let me try to break it out. I think that, look, we'll expect for resi a few points of price, the rest will be volume mix. Remember, we talked about price for the 454-B units being up 15% to 20% over two years. And the way you can think about that is, a few percent of just basic price this year, a few percent of price next year. Remember, we announced a 6% price increase effective for March for our resi business.
And then on top of that, you're probably looking at about a 10% or so price difference for the 454-B units versus the 410-A. And look, I'm proud of the team. I think that we're going to start shipping units as early as March. We'll start for the 454-B. We're going to start on some of the new build side because our home builders don't want a mixed subdivision, so to speak. So they're going to start taking 454-B units a little bit earlier. We'll get some out for national heat pumps for training purposes. I think when all is set and done this year, probably be 80% will be the 410-A and about 20% will be the 454-B.
And I'm sorry, Andy, did you have another piece in there that I failed to address?
Yes, this was a big one for us. We wanted to end down mid-teens and we ended up down 16% year-over-year in inventory. So that was a fairly purposeful effort by us working very closely with our distributors. That was one of our biggest targets in 4Q. Now 4Q resi ended up being a little bit lighter than we had thought, partly for that reason, as we were making sure that we got as much of the de-stocking behind us in 2023 as possible. And I think we achieved that. Could there be a tiny bit more de-stocking here in 1Q? Yes, but I think that's behind us over the next month or two, and then we'll back to more typical levels.
Thank you. One moment for our next question. Next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.
Hey, Deane. Good morning.
Very strong, Deane. We feel very well positioned with the mega projects with some of our scale customers that we really -- we've established a central group to go target some of our bigger scale customers, data centers is just unbelievably strong. It's -- when we look at it, we've talked about the property market being a little bit less than 10% of our commercial HVAC business in the Americas, data centers is bigger as a percentage for us than the real estate market. That's in the low double-digit percentage for us as a company.
And we've recently introduced new products. We have a new air-cooled chiller that's helped us get significant wins, both in the United States and in Europe. Europe has seen 10 times growth in data center space over the last two years. So when we look at CHIPS Act bringing some of the production back, we look at data centers. There's other verticals that are strong to education, K-12 has been strong, higher ed, retail -- in some parts of retail, even health care continues to be strong. So we feel very well positioned overall in commercial HVAC. I would tell you, we picked up share last year in the Americas. And in Europe, we were probably flattish in share in Asia. So we feel well positioned with these mega projects.
Thank you.
Yes. Yes. I'll take that. This is Dave. Well, first of all, we're looking at a strong rebound in the container business, both in terms of the market and in terms of share. So we think that for us, the container business will certainly be well north of double digits. For the global truck trailer business, that's up in the low single-digit range. The North American truck trailer market, if you look at ACT, that market is down double digits. But remember, last year, it was down significantly, and we actually grew last year, and it's partly because people look at ACT, and that's just a small piece of it. That is the sheer volume for trailers. It excludes things like truck, APUs, pricing mix that we get from electrification.
So even though that the market says -- I think the market could be down double digits, ACT, I think, is saying 37,000 units this year from 42,500 or so last year. We actually think that we'll end up probably flattish in both NATT, maybe kind of give or take a point or two. And then I would say flattish on the European truck trailer side as well. Europe would probably be down maybe 1 point or 2, but we continue to see strength in Asia truck trailer. And we see commercial refrigeration business starting to rebound this year, and we're looking at double-digit growth in that business.
Good morning.
Yes. Look, we did see that orders were lighter in the second half, and that did impact -- I would say the fourth quarter came in a little bit lower than we thought. It was still up mid-single digits versus the fourth quarter of last year. But when we look at the calendarization of this year, from a sales perspective, you're probably looking at about 45% or so of the sales in the first half and about 55% of the sales in the back half.
When you look at the EBITDA, it's more -- a little bit more weighted towards the back half because that's when we see our synergies start to come in. But as I was mentioning earlier, Joe, I think the encouraging piece is once we got the definitive legislation out of Germany, and you can apply for the subsidies, which become retroactively beneficial effective in -- as of January, we did see -- it was kind of like a tale of two cities. You saw activity on the Viessmann web pages picked up. You started to see energy amongst the installers. And you started to see heat pump applications increase. So clearly, some of that dithering we saw on the legislative side impacted new orders. Now that we have a level of certainty, we're very confident that we'll start to see the heat pump orders and sales pick up in the second half. And Patrick, are you going to add something?
Well, look, we -- on the security side, as Patrick said, we've guided for half the year. We feel calibrated on where we are -- for where we are in the first half. And I think that we're sort of back to more normal levels of backlog in security.
When we look at other parts, I mean, for our commercial HVAC side, we're still looking at backlog up 30% on a two year stack. So we're well -- we have very good coverage going into the second half of this year. So we feel good about the growth projections that we have for commercial HVAC. And not -- when we look at the light commercial piece, we're watching the inventory levels in the channel. It's partly helped frame our -- when we said we think of sales down in the mid-single-digit range, it's partly because we're watching that.
Now I will say we actually, even with our 2024 forecast, it would still be lower than the kind of numbers we saw in 2019, 2018. So we're watching the inventory levels, but we still have very strong coverage heading into 2Q and beyond. So we'll keep an eye on that, but -- and we obviously have a tough compare there. And remember, light commercial is about 5% of all of Carrier. But we'll watch the inventory levels, but we are encouraged by the coverage that we have.
Thank you.
$700 million.
Yes. I think on the margin side, they're both very similar. But clearly, on the sales side, we're looking at about 3 times the price for heat pumps than you're seeing for boilers. So when we look at that heat pump growth, we think long term, you're looking at heat pump growth more than 20%. It remains to be seen whether obviously, a bit of a tough compare last year, whether we'll get that 20% growth in 2024, but the mix that we see between expected heat pumps and boilers is baked into our mid-single-digit guide for them for the top line for this year.
Well, I -- look, on the latter one first, comps is a part of it and orders is just it's very difficult to look at orders, because we're seeing such enormous swings in orders. So you can look at a certain quarter with orders down 30% or 40%. What we're actually looking more at for light commercial is coverage. We're looking at just fundamental demand that we're seeing out in the marketplace and how much backlog we have to support that demand, and then we look at the underlying verticals.
So as we look at the first half of 2024, we have good coverage for the sales that we expect, and that goes into -- way beyond where it normally would go. It goes into the second quarter. So we're watching inventory levels. We have generally pretty good coverage. We do know that some verticals remain quite strong, like K-12 and things like some of the lower-end retail parts of the business. And then, we're watching new orders come in to feed the second half of the year in the light commercial space. Please remind me what was your question on resi?
Yes. I think we're now back to a point, which would have been more like what we would have been used to pre-COVID, which is you'll start to see sales and movement start to feel very similar to each other. We sell into the channel, what moves from our channel partners and to the dealers. So we should start to see more of a 1:1 match for movement, our sales and our movement from our distributors. We're sort of back to more normal levels.
And you think about the market over these last handful of years, look at a market level, you're looking at total shipments on ducted splits of back in 2018, 2019 of around $6.5 million. And this year, you're looking at about $6.5 million. So it feels like we're kind of in the zone of where we would have been pre-COVID and we'll grow from there. Last year was a bit of a reset year coming off a couple of years where we got up into that $8 million range. And now we're sort of back to more traditional levels, and we feel good about the growth rates that we have projected for resi for this year.
Yes. When we think about -- we're looking at combining the commercial and the residential fire in an exit together. And I'll tell you right now, our number one priority is we want to make sure that we do everything we can to close security, close the commercial refrigeration as effectively and as soon as we can, working with the buyers. And that's a little bit more than half of the EBITDA that we're exiting.
The next priority we have in line is industrial fire and that's frankly progressing very well. We're looking at hopefully an announced deal here within the next couple of months. Then we're doing all the prep work right now internally for commercial and resi fire, and we're preparing it both ways. We're preparing it as though we could do a sale with the [QOV] (ph) and all the work associated with that. And we have a whole prep activity around a public market exit.
And in the meantime, we're heads down focused on improving the underlying performance of what are really great franchises in those businesses like Kidde and Edwards. And at the end of the day, which way we'll go sale or public market exit, it just comes down to maximizing long-term shareholder value, and we continue to assess that internally.
Thank you.
Yes, Steve, I know you've talked different. That's like total split volume for North America.
For the industry? We can take it off-line, Steve, if you have different...
Yes. We -- well, first of all, we saw extremely high. It was around 20% orders in China, Brett. The ref orders were extremely high, but it's a relatively small number amongst -- for the business overall, but that was very high. And we had a little bit of headwind on the commercial HVAC side in China and then F&S was kind of in the mid-single-digit range.
So, we were very pleased, I would say, overall, with the orders in China. It's about 9% of our sales when we picked up Toshiba. We picked up a little bit more on the residential and light commercial business. And we have a lot of new product launches in that space. So kind of like what I said with Viessmann before where we introduced a new product that gets us into a new market. Some of the revenue synergies that the team's worked on between Toshiba and Giwee to really introduce some new products into the China market, we think as we know and we anticipate that we'll continue to spend helping us a lot.
And I think the big thing is this pivot between what was real estate and property now to some of the more industrial pieces like EV, electronics, infrastructure, manufacturing, strong. So we actually have China for us up in 2024, I think it's in the high single-digit range. Obviously, we all know China will have to continue to watch. But if we feel like if we play in the right spaces in China, we're well positioned.
Yes. We -- what I would do is, I would put the revenue synergies, and we'll start to dimensionalize those for our investors here over time. But -- it's a little bit early. But what I would do is, put the -- I would put the revenue synergies in three categories. One is multichannel, multi-brand. Viessmann has -- I think everyone would agree, the single best channel for the residential market in Europe.
So direct to installers, more than 80,000 installer relationships, and we're looking at introducing a secondary brand, potentially the Carrier brand into that channel. And then there's more we can do with the Toshiba brand in Europe as well. So that's an example. And is there more we can do with the Viessmann brand in places like China or in India or in the United States and North America. So multi-channel, multi-brand.
The second one is just pure innovation. They have -- Viessmann has a phenomenal digital tool that they use with their installers. Is there more that we can do to drive services growth through the digital tools that we have within Carrier or that we have within Viessmann or even some of that heat pump technology, could you see more air to water in the United States, especially for homes in places like New England that have radiated heat today or might we see more of a trend even though it's a bit of a niche market around geothermal in the United States.
And then the last is what I would call integrated offerings like complete home energy management systems, which Viessmann does very well today in Europe, and that an opportunity for us in the United States, and things like district heating, where we could do a commercial heat pump combined with the apartment transfer units that Viessmann has. So we see a lot of opportunity. We've given a very kind of audacious aggressive target for ourselves internally. And as we get some wins on the board, we'll start to more dimensionalize that for our investors.
Correct.
Okay. Well, let me -- let me wrap things up. First of all, thank you all for joining. For us, it's a big day. We're actually here in the New York Stock Exchange. We will be a little bit overdue because we were going to ring the bell when we spun as a public company back in in 2020, but it was COVID, the New York Stock Exchange, which was shut down. So we're excited to have our -- many of our key leaders here with us, and we'll be ringing the bell here shortly. We have customers with us in the building today, which we're excited to spend time with them. And we are so excited about not only 2024, but the future of this company. We are so well positioned around the sustainability trend, and I'm so proud of what this team has accomplished since our spin, but I assure you that our best days are ahead.
So thank you all for joining, and Sam, as always, available for questions.