Jensen Huang
Jensen Huang
NVIDIA Corporation (NVDA) Q4 2024 Earnings Call Transcript
Thanks, Toshiya. Let's see. There were three questions, one more time. First question was -- can you -- well?
Okay. Yeah. Well, we guide one quarter at a time. But fundamentally, the conditions are excellent for continued growth calendar '24, to calendar '25 and beyond. And let me tell you why? We're at the beginning of two industry-wide transitions and both of them are industry wide. The first one is a transition from general to accelerated computing. General-purpose computing, as you know, is starting to run out of steam. And you can tell by the CSPs extending and many data centers, including our own for general-purpose computing, extending the depreciation from four to six years.
There's just no reason to update with more CPUs when you can't fundamentally and dramatically enhance its throughput like you used to. And so you have to accelerate everything. This is what NVIDIA has been pioneering for some time. And with accelerated computing, you can dramatically improve your energy efficiency. You can dramatically improve your cost in data processing by 20 to 1. Huge numbers. And of course, the speed. That speed is so incredible that we enabled a second industry-wide transition called generative AI.
Generative AI, I'm sure we're going to talk plenty -- plenty about it during the call. But remember, generative AI is a new application. It is enabling a new way of doing software, new types of software are being created. It is a new way of computing. You can't do generative AI on traditional general-purpose computing. You have to accelerate it.
And the third is it is enabling a whole new industry, and this is something worthwhile to take a step back and look at and it connects to your last question about sovereign AI. A whole new industry in the sense that for the very first time a data center is not just about computing data and storing data and serving the employees of a company. We now have a new type of data center that is about AI generation, an AI generation factory.
And you've heard me describe it as AI factories. But basically, it takes raw material, which is data, it transforms it with these AI supercomputers that NVIDIA builds, and it turns them into incredibly valuable tokens. These tokens are what people experience on the amazing ChatGPT or Midjourney or, search these days are augmented by that. All of your recommender systems are now augmented by that, the hyper-personalization that goes along with it.
All of these incredible startups in digital biology, generating proteins and generating chemicals and the list goes on. And so all of these tokens are generated in a very specialized type of data center. And this data center we call AI supercomputers and AI generation factories. But we're seeing diversity -- one of the other reasons -- so at the foundation is that. The way it manifests into new markets is in all of the diversity that you're seeing us in.
One, the amount of inference that we do is just off the charts now. Almost every single time you interact with ChatGPT, that we're inferencing. Every time you use Midjourney, we're inferencing. Every time you see amazing -- these Sora videos that are being generated or Runway, the videos that they're editing, Firefly, NVIDIA is doing inferencing. The inference part of our business has grown tremendously. We estimate about 40%. The amount of training is continuing, because these models are getting larger and larger, the amount of inference is increasing.
But we're also diversifying into new industries. The large CSPs are still continuing to build out. You can see from their CapEx and their discussions, but there's a whole new category called GPU specialized CSPs. They specialize in NVIDIA AI infrastructure, GPU specialized CSPs. You're seeing enterprise software platforms deploying AI. ServiceNow is just a really, really great example. You see Adobe. There's the others, SAP and others. You see consumer Internet services that are now augmenting all of their services of the past with generative AI. So they can have even more hyper-personalized content to be created.
You see us talking about industrial generative AI. Now our industries represent multi-billion dollar businesses, auto, health, financial services. In total, our vertical industries are multi-billion dollar businesses now. And of course sovereign AI. The reason for sovereign AI has to do with the fact that the language, the knowledge, the history, the culture of each region are different and they own their own data.
They would like to use their data, train it with to create their own digital intelligence and provision it to harness that raw material themselves. It belongs to them, each one of the regions around the world. The data belongs to them. The data is most useful to their society. And so they want to protect the data. They want to transform it themselves, value-added transformation, into AI and provision those services themselves.
So we're seeing sovereign AI infrastructure is being built in Japan, in Canada, in France, so many other regions. And so my expectation is that what is being experienced here in the United States, in the West, will surely be replicated around the world, and these AI generation factories are going to be in every industry, every company, every region. And so I think the last -- this last year, we've seen a generative AI really becoming a whole new application space, a whole new way of doing computing, a whole new industry is being formed and that's driving our growth.
I'll go backwards. The estimate is probably understated. And -- but we estimated it. And let me tell you why. Whenever -- a year ago, the recommender systems that people are -- when you run the internet, the news, the videos, the music, the products that are being recommended to you because as you know, the internet has trillions -- I don't know how many trillions, but trillions of things out there and your phone is 3-inches square. And so the ability for them to fit all of that information down to something, such a small real estate, is through a system, an amazing system called recommender systems.
These recommender systems used to be all based on CPU approaches. But the recent migration to deep learning and now generative AI has really put these recommender systems now directly into the path of GPU acceleration. It needs GPU acceleration for the embeddings. It needs GPU acceleration for the nearest neighbor search. It needs GPU acceleration for the re-ranking and it needs GPU acceleration to generate the augmented information for you.
So GPUs are in every single step of a recommender system now. And as you know, recommender system is the single largest software engine on the planet. Almost every major company in the world has to run these large recommender systems. Whenever you use ChatGPT, it's being inferenced. Whenever you hear about Midjourney and just the number of things that they're generating for consumers, when you when you see Getty, the work that we do with Getty and Firefly from Adobe. These are all generative models. The list goes on. And none of these, as I mentioned, existed a year ago, 100% new.
Yeah. The first thing is overall, our supply is improving, overall. Our supply chain is just doing an incredible job for us, everything from of course the wafers, the packaging, the memories, all of the power regulators, to transceivers and networking and cables and you name it. The list of components that we ship -- as you know, people think that NVIDIA GPUs is like a chip. But the NVIDIA Hopper GPU has 35,000 parts. It weighs 70 pounds. These things are really complicated things we've built. People call it an AI supercomputer for good reason. If you ever look in the back of the data center, the systems, the cabling system is mind boggling. It is the most dense complex cabling system for networking the world's ever seen.
Our InfiniBand business grew 5x year over year. The supply chain is really doing fantastic supporting us. And so overall, the supply is improving. We expect the demand will continue to be stronger than our supply provides and -- through the year and we'll do our best. The cycle times are improving and we're going to continue to do our best. However, whenever we have new products, as you know, it ramps from zero to a very large number. And you can't do that overnight. Everything is ramped up. It doesn't step up.
And so whenever we have a new generation of products -- and right now, we are ramping H200's. There is no way we can reasonably keep up on demand in the short term as we ramp. We're ramping Spectrum-X. We're doing incredibly well with Spectrum-X. It's our brand-new product into the world of ethernet. InfiniBand is the standard for AI-dedicated systems. Ethernet with Spectrum-X --ethernet is just not a very good scale-out system.
But with Spectrum-X, we've augmented, layered on top of ethernet, fundamental new capabilities like adaptive routing, congestion control, noise isolation or traffic isolation, so that we could optimize ethernet for AI. And so InfiniBand will be our AI-dedicated infrastructure. Spectrum-X will be our AI-optimized networking and that is ramping, and so we'll -- with all of the new products, demand is greater than supply. And that's just kind of the nature of new products and so we work as fast as we can to capture the demand. But overall, overall net-net, overall, our supply is increasing very nicely.
First, our CSPs have a very clear view of our product road map and transitions. And that transparency with our CSPs gives them the confidence of which products to place and where and when. And so they know their -- they know the timing to the best of our ability. And they know quantities and of course allocation. We allocate fairly. We allocate fairly. We do the best of our -- do the best we can to allocate fairly and to avoid allocating unnecessarily.
As you mentioned earlier, why allocate something when the data center's not ready. Nothing is more difficult then to have anything sit around. And so, allocate fairly, and to avoid allocating unnecessarily. And where we do -- the question that you asked about the end markets, that we have an excellent ecosystem with OEMs, ODMs, CSPs and, very importantly, end markets. What NVIDIA is really unique about is that we bring our customers, we bring our partners, CSPs and OEMs, we bring them customers.
The biology companies, the healthcare companies, financial services companies, AI developers, large-language model developers, autonomous vehicle companies, robotics companies. There's just a giant suite of robotics companies that are emerging. There are warehouse robotics to surgical robotics to humanoid robotics, all kinds of really interesting robotics companies, agriculture robotics companies. All of these startups, large companies, healthcare, financial services and auto and such are working on NVIDIA's platform. We support them directly.
And oftentimes, we can have a twofer by allocating to a CSP and bringing the customer to the CSP at the same time. And so this ecosystem, you're absolutely right that it's vibrant. But at the core of it, we want to allocate fairly with avoiding waste and looking for opportunities to connect partners and end users. We're looking for those opportunities all the time.
Hey, CJ. Thanks for the question. Yeah, that's the really cool part. If you look at the reason why we're able to improve performance so much, it's because we have two characteristics about our platform. One, is that it's accelerated. And two, it's programmable. It's not brittle. NVIDIA is the only architecture that has gone from the very, very beginning, literally the very beginning when CNN's and Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever and Geoff Hinton first revealed AlexNet, all the way through to RNNs to LSTMs to every -- RLs to deep learning RLs to transformers to every single version.
Every single version and every species that have come along, vision transformers, multi-modality transformers, every single -- and now time sequence stuff, and every single variation, every single species of AI that has come along, we've been able to support it, optimize our stack for it and deploy it into our installed base. This is really the great amazing part. On the one hand, we can invent new architectures and new technologies like our Tensor cores, like our transformer engine for Tensor cores, improved new numerical formats and structures of processing like we've done with the different generations of Tensor cores, meanwhile, supporting the installed base at the same time.
And so, as a result, we take all of our new software algorithm invest -- inventions, all of the inventions, new inventions of models of the industry, and it runs on our installed base on the one hand. On the other hand, whenever we see something revolutionary we can -- like transformers, we can create something brand new like the Hopper transformer engine and implement it into future. And so we simultaneously have this ability to bring software to the installed base and keep making it better and better and better, so our customers installed base is enriched over time with our new software.
On the other hand, for new technologies, create revolutionary capabilities. Don't be surprised if in our future generation, all of a sudden amazing breakthroughs in large-language models were made possible And those breakthroughs, some of which will be in software because they run CUDA, will be made available to the installed base. And so we carry everybody with us on the one hand. We make giant breakthroughs on the other hand.
Think of, at the core, remember the US government wants to limit the latest capabilities of NVIDIA's accelerated computing and AI to the Chinese market. And the U.S. government would like to see us be as successful in China as possible. Within those two constraints, within those two pillars if you will, are the restrictions, and so we had to pause when the new restrictions came out. We immediately paused. So that we understood what the restrictions are, reconfigured our products in a way that is not software hackable in any way. And that took some time. And so we reset -- we reset our product offering to China and now we're sampling to customers in China.
And we're going to do our best to compete in that marketplace and succeed in that marketplace within the -- within the specifications of the restriction. And so that's it. We -- this last quarter, we -- our business significantly declined as we -- as we paused in the marketplace. We stopped shipping in the marketplace. We expect this quarter to be about the same. But after, that hopefully we can go compete for our business and do our best, and we'll see how it turns out.
Let me take a step back and explain the fundamental reason why NVIDIA will be very successful in software. So first, as you know, accelerated computing really grew in the cloud. In the cloud, the cloud service providers have really large engineering teams and we work with them in a way that allows them to operate and manage their own business. And whenever there are any issues, we have large teams assigned to them. And their engineering teams are working directly with our engineering teams and we enhance, we fix, we maintain, we patch the complicated stack of software that's involved in accelerated computing.
As you know, accelerated computing is very different than general-purpose computing. You're not starting from a program like C++. You compile it and things run on all your CPUs. The stacks of software necessary for every domain from data processing SQL versus -- SQL structure data versus all the images and text and PDF, which is unstructured, to classical machine-learning to computer vision to speech to large-language models, all --recommender systems. All of these things require different software stacks. That's the reason why NVIDIA has hundreds of libraries. If you don't have software, you can't open new markets. If you don't have software, you can't open and enable new applications.
Software is fundamentally necessary for accelerated computing. This is the fundamental difference between accelerated computing and general-purpose computing that most people took a long time to understand. And now, people understand that the software is really key. And the way that we work with CSPs, that's really easy. We have large teams that are working with their large teams.
However, now that generative AI is enabling every enterprise and every enterprise software company to embrace accelerated computing -- and when -- it is now essential to embrace accelerated computing because it is no longer possible, no longer likely anyhow to sustain improved throughput through just general-purpose computing. All of these enterprise software companies and enterprise companies don't have large engineering teams to be able to maintain and optimize their software stack to run across all of the world's clouds and private clouds and on-prem.
So we are going to do the management, the optimization, the patching, the tuning, the installed-base optimization for all of their software stacks. And we containerize them into our stack. We call it NVIDIA AI Enterprise. And the way we go to market with it is that think of that NVIDIA AI Enterprise now as a run time like an operating system, it's an operating system for artificial intelligence.
And we charge $4,500 per GPU per year. And my guess is that every enterprise in the world, every software enterprise company that are deploying software in all the clouds and private clouds and on-prem, will run on NVIDIA AI Enterprise, especially obviously for our GPUs. And so this is going to likely be a very significant business over time. We're off to a great start. And Colette mentioned that it's already at $1 billion run rate and we're really just getting started.
The computer industry is making two simultaneous platform shifts at the same time. The trillion-dollar installed base of data centers is transitioning from general purpose to accelerated computing. Every data center will be accelerated so the world can keep up with the computing demand, with increasing throughput, while managing costs and energy. The incredible speed up of NVIDIA enabled -- that NVIDIA enabled, a whole new computing paradigm, generative AI, where software can learn, understand and generate any information from human language to the structure of biology and the 3D world.
We are now at the beginning of a new industry where AI-dedicated data centers process massive raw data to refine it into digital intelligence. Like AC power generation plants of the last industrial revolution, NVIDIA AI supercomputers are essentially AI generation factories of this Industrial Revolution. Every company in every industry is fundamentally built on their proprietary business intelligence, and in the future, their proprietary generative AI.
Generative AI has kicked off a whole new investment cycle to build the next trillion dollars of infrastructure of AI generation factories. We believe these two trends will drive a doubling of the world's data center infrastructure installed base in the next five years and will represent an annual market opportunity in the hundreds of billions. This new AI infrastructure will open up a whole new world of applications not possible today. We started the AI journey with the hyperscale cloud providers and consumer internet companies. And now, every industry is on board, from automotive to healthcare to financial services, to industrial to telecom, media and entertainment.
NVIDIA's full stack computing platform with industry-specific applications frameworks and a huge developer and partner ecosystem, gives us the speed, scale and reach to help every company -- to help companies in every industry become an AI company. We have so much to share with you at next month's GTC in San Jose. So be sure to join us. We look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.