Judy Marks
Judy Marks
Otis Worldwide Corporation (OTIS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
No, Nigel, none at all.
Yes, Nigel, let me talk to the uplift in '23. We pretty much saw it across the board, again, early days but pretty pleased with the savings we've seen and more importantly, the trajectory of where we're going with the process work with the organizational model and really changing how we work to be more customer focused. Anurag, I'll let you touch on Mod margins.
Sure. So really, it's a very competitive market. We'll start there. And the market remains weak. We've called it north of 10% in terms of what we saw this year. And we're going to be very focused on continued productivity savings. But in a deflationary environment, we're seeing the costs come down, too. And that's really what's helping. The commodity costs are coming down, and it gives us this price cost neutral ability.
Now listen, every day in China, we're on new equipment, we're balancing the quality of the orders the volume we're taking in and what that's contributing to our backlog margin. And we are in a market that's down 10% in this quarter, Sally and the team did a great job. We were down 5% in terms of orders. And so we did gain share and we've gained share now consistently for several years.
So we're managing that carefully, but I will tell you, our China business, when you look at it as a whole, our China business contributed significantly this year, and their profit for the year was up year-over-year. When you look all in because what we've done is we've really executed our strategy well on new equipment with key accounts with our sales coverage but just as importantly, Gautam, we focused on pivoting more and growing our service business.
Our service sales have grown mid-teen CAGRs. And we -- service now accounts for 25% of our China sales, which is up from mid-teens a few years ago. And we had 20% growth in both units and value in service in this last quarter, and that's the trend we've been on. So it's about balance in new equipment. But it's a growing service and long story.
Yes. So the backlog itself, Julian, is obviously, we're going in with 2%. We really couldn't be more pleased with how especially Americas and EMEA really drove strong new equipment orders in the fourth quarter. Americas was up 6%, EMEA was up 11%. So everyone is going in with backlog strength with the exception of China backlog is down mid-single-digits as we go into to '24. But it's that strong backlog that's giving us that line of sight in the majority of our regions that gives us the confidence that we can -- between that and new equipment share gain of 50 basis points that we're going to sustain that gives us the confidence.
Anurag, I'll let you take them through kind of how the year transpires.
Sure, Julien. Let me start with North America. And as I said, our team is out there and it goes back to these long-term customer relationships that really enable the orders book to be up in the backlog to be up. But for context, the new equipment market segment in units in North America finished last year, the lowest since the GFC. And yet, we still we gain share, we delivered and we increased pricing. So our team is performing very well there.
When we look at the segments themselves, none of the segments are strong in North America. Multifamily is the weakest due to several years of outpaced growth. If I had to rank order them, infrastructure is the best, and we've had really good success with major projects. We're going to continue to grow there. But all of the segments -- none of them are strong in North America. And so this is going to be a year where the benefit to Otis and why we're going to be successful is we invested in the low-rise market.
We introduced our Gen3 Core product and 80% of the North American market is 2 to 6 stories. And that market, we're still seeing active bids. We've seen a great pipeline for Gen3 Core and that gives us the encouragement between the backlog and the orders we're seeing to know that we can -- it's a mid-single-digit backlog in North America.
So -- and that gives us a good 12, 18 plus months line of sight for next year's revenue. In Europe, South Europe remains strong, led by Spain, we're seeing sustained activity. Central Northern Europe is weak. And again, there, infrastructure tends to lead residential is a little better in Europe than it is in North America by far. But again, we -- what we see on the ground, whether it's the German economy or any of the other locations is looks to us like '24 looks like '23 in terms of the segments in Europe.
Sure. Listen, Miguel, performance can vary in any given quarter based on compares, but I'd like to take a step back and overall, for '23, we believe we gained share in China with the market down north of 10% and us coming in, again, down about 5% or actually even low-single-digits when you look for the year, but let me try and give you some additional color here.
First, we did perform better in the first half of the year versus the second half but we always manage volume and share versus profitability. And we manage those dials appropriately while maintaining momentum on our share growth.
Our order value declined mid-single-digits, and we've spoken all year about the deflation that's impacted the market, but we've been able to offset the price decline with better productivity. And when you look at our strategy in China, we've added the agents and distributors. It's given us the geographic and vertical coverage and we've continued to innovate and invest in our products. We've brought multiple products to the market in China. We've upgraded our escalator offering, our OH8000, and we brought Gen360 to the market in China over the past year. And that will yield for us and give us an advantage this year because of the technology because of our -- again, our reach in terms of our sales channel.
Overall, we've increased our bookings in China by nearly 20% since pre-spin, while over the market over that same multiyear period is down 10% to 15%. So our strategy is working, our team is out there every day focused. We are -- our backlog, while it's down mid-single-digits, the quality of our backlog, the profitability of our backlog, we're not sacrificing for volume.
Yes. So I'll comment a little on -- let me talk about the market and a little bit on the margins because the margins vary by region in terms of modernization margins. But the mod market is up nicely in all regions. And the majority of that is just driven by the refurbishment required due to the aging equipment that's out based on construction cycles from 20-plus years ago. We're just in a natural growth cycle now where you're going to see year-over-year additional Mod. Really pleased with the backlog up. This was our sixth consecutive quarter of orders up over 10%.
Asia Pacific really was the standout again with Korea. But we have a great mod product in China and our China orders, albeit on a small base because it's a little bit of a younger installed base is growing significantly double-digit. And Americas and EMEA, as I said in my prepared comments, really had a strong major project contribution in Mod orders in the fourth quarter, and we expect that to continue.
Again, in terms of margins, as Anurag shared, we will surpass new equipment margins shortly. But when you look in different geographies, there are different Mod margins. The market is a combination, again, of aging and safety regulations and demand creation. And I'm really proud of our team because when a part goes obsolete our team is out there.
Our sales teams out there, our mechanics are out there. They're ensuring our customers know what they need to keep their elevators, not just current, but to prepare them for the future. I'm really encouraged by modernization. We've organized around it. We've set up this as a fifth strategic imperative, we have Mod kits because we are going to industrialize how we do Mods. So it will look more like new equipment coming out of a factory, and that's what's going to drive the margin expansion.
Thank you, Krista. 2023 proved to be another strong year for Otis as we focused on our strategic imperatives to drive value for all stakeholders. We head into 2024 supported by the strength of our service-driven customer-centric business model and remain excited to share our 2024 successes with all of you. We look forward to you joining us at our Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange on February 15. Please stay safe and well. Thank you.