Matt Meloy
Matt Meloy
Targa Resources Corp. (TRGP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, good morning, Jeremy.
Yeah. It's still early, Jeremy. So I think we're thinking 5% to 10% is a good -- kind of a good range of upside right now, but it's still pretty early.
Yeah, yeah. I think what I'd say is we feel really good about our position coming out of '24 going into '25. I think '25 is going to set up very well. I think we see significant EBITDA growth in '25, and frankly, beyond '25.
We guided 2.3 to 2.5 of CapEx this year. We were about 2.2 last year. So the kind of 5.5 times investment multiple is a multiyear average. It's not -- you spend a set amount in one year so it results in EBITDA in that year. It's a multiyear average that we think we can do, call it, 5 to 6 times EBITDA on our CapEx.
So when you kind of look at what we spent the last couple of years, I think it just sets up for a very strong 2025. We decided not to give EBITDA guidance for '25, but just kind of point you to our historical spending and just the overall volume trajectory that we're seeing across our footprint is just going to set up very nice for us in '25.
Sure. No, good question. I mean, really, historically, you go back years, we kind of said 5 to 7 times build multiple is kind of what we targeted. We've been able to do better than that. I think that was just kind of some cushion in that 5 to 7. If you look back at the last five years, we've really been kind of closer to a 4 times build multiple. We've had really good volume growth across our system. And the Permian, Grand Prix filled up much quicker even than our expectations, which just drove the returns even higher.
So I think we've really had some strong performance. But I'd say there's really nothing fundamentally different in what we're investing in this year and next year, go forward than what we invested in, in the past where we did have a lower investment multiple. I'd say perhaps there's a little bit of conservatism put into that number. But it's not -- there's not a large delta from commodity prices one way or the other. I'd say we have more commodity price upside given the fee floors that Jen and we've talked about, which could drive that lower if we get some commodity price tailwinds.
Okay. I'll start and then Pat can probably touch on a little bit of this, too. I think when you look at our Permian growth for the year, we really feel good about where we're starting the year. December was our highest month, and it really just sets us up for really good production growth just where we exited 2023 going into '24. So even with relatively modest growth from here, we're going to see a really strong year-over-year. And that's why we've said consensus is about 9%. We've typically beat that. But even if we get anywhere around high single digits or a little bit better, I think it sets us up very well, not only for '24 'but 25.
And then I'll let Pat speak a little bit to kind of the M&A landscape from our E&P customers.
Yeah. And just to add to that, too, the other part of your question was around gas quality and trading. A lot of the -- we are spending a lot of capital, and we spent last year and this year 4 additional treating facilities primarily in the Delaware Basin. We're putting in some additional treaters to handle both CO2 and H2S, and we're drilling multiple wells to handle that as gas injection wells and pipelines and connectivity to handle that.
So I think that really positions us nicely as the Delaware continues to grow and gas quality becomes another issue that the producer are going to have to deal with, we'll be in a really good position to handle that. And most of that capital will be in or the large -- the lion's share of it will be in kind of by the end of this year.
Yeah. So as we think about '24 and then going into '25, we're ordering some long lead time, have some spending for Train 11, which will both be in '24 and '25. And then we also mentioned there's additional plants, call it, two plants, maybe one in the Delaware, one in the Midland, of additional ordering long lead time and in kind of our base assumption that we're going to need to start spending capital on this going to have '24 and '25 budget.
So that's kind of what we have in our budget right now. Sure, if there's even more production growth in the Permian, could that move that plant timing up a little bit? It could move it up a little bit. If it's perhaps on the lower end of the growth ranges, could we push those out? Yeah, we could push that out a little bit.
Really, the big sensitivities to our CapEx does -- it really tends to be more on the downstream side. Are we going to need -- when is the next fractionator? What about -- Daytona's coming on, should give us some good runway from an NGL perspective. But when will you need more transportation and then export? Those are the larger projects that can be a bit lumpier. So I think '25, a lot of that up and down really could just be around our G&P business and some of the plant timing and related field capital.
Yeah. We've been making steady progress on getting more fee-based components, primarily fee floors but also just fee-based G&P business, over the last several years. Our commercial team really did a fantastic job in 2023. And I would say there was a step-change in just the number of contracts that we were able to get redone. So no, it was a step-change late in '23, which significantly changed our overall downside risk profile and is done.
So now we're estimating 90%. You see that on our commodity price sensitivity. We still have some length. So there is some downside if prices moved down. But relative to our overall size of 30% downside, $60 million, $70 million, that's not much sensitivity. That is fundamentally different than where we were really 12-24 and certainly 36 months ago.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah. Sure. Good question. So I would say the primary delta from the 1.4 to 1.7 is downstream spending, having multiple fractionation facilities and that's really more this year. But really the delta between 1.4 and 1.7 is primarily downstream. One of the larger projects that we don't have any meaningful spending on next year is transportation, another NGL pipe. We have Daytona coming on this year. That's going to provide us some good runway. So then how much runway that provides really depends on what the overall growth rate in the Permian and our capture of those NGL barrels to move on to Daytona.
So that is something we're thinking about. These pipes take a couple of years to get billed, probably even a little bit longer than that. So we had to look out two-three years and say, when do we need to think about looping that 30-inch segment. There's also available transport out there from some of our competitors. So we can move -- I think we'll move the lion's share of our volumes on our own pipe. There can be transportation agreements that can be had with some of our competitors as well. So really, for us, all options are on the table, whether it's us building a 30-inch down the road or utilizing some excess capacity from some other NGL pipes.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah. I mean we see growth in the Delaware, but we see significant growth in the Midland as well. So we see growth across both of our footprints, really active producers in both. So on our footprint, we see growth in the Midland and we see growth in the Delaware.
Thank you.
Yeah. Sure. Yeah. As we think about really from G&P all the way through our dock, we want to make sure we have the capacity to handle the volumes coming from our G&P footprint. And so that's kind of how we think about staging transportation, fractionation. And that goes for export as well. We want to make sure we have a good market for propane and butanes. As Scott mentioned, that's really what we export.
So with the expansion that just came on and the nighttime allowance of kind of, call it, 5% to 10%, I think that gives us some cushion as we go forward. And as we see really how much capacity that nighttime opens up for us, that gives us some good cushion before we're going to need another export project. But we are already looking at scoping. And so the timing is kind of to be determined, but do we need refrigeration, do we need a pipeline, are we looking at dock. But those projects are not the really large-scale, I'd say, greenfields or brownfield. I kind of view those as more debottlenecking. You have one pinch point, you spend a couple of hundred million dollars and you get some excess capacity, then you do the next and then you do the next.
So those are the things we're kind of looking at over the longer term. But yeah, we want to make sure we can handle the volumes coming across our system.
Yeah. I mean we have the issues we talked about last year was really just kind of being behind on our -- getting the compression all said and getting that done last year. We had a lot of compression come on late last year, and then you saw our volumes in Q4 really move up. We have another talked about $400 million of compression. So we ordered that out about a year right now for compressors. So we tried to get ahead of it as we saw we were getting behind last year. We just approved another AFE the other day to order some more inventory to try and get ahead of it and stay for 2025.
So part of that does depend on volume growth. When you see a lot of volumes, if it exceeds our forecast, you can end up having some pinch points. But we're trying to be smart, look at the forecast and stay ahead of it.
I have not heard any change in lead times.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah. No. And then, Michael, on the CapEx part, that is not included in the 1.4. In any project that goes, we'll evaluate does it make sense for us to be a partner. So for a partner in it that would increase that CapEx. There's also some of these pipes that will be project financed for the majority of the capital. So any amount of equity we were to put into it would be relatively small, so it may or may not be project financed. But that is not included in the -- in our outlook.
Yeah, thanks, Michael.