1Carol Tome
Carol Tome
UPS CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses
And I might just add a little more color, if I could, Chris. Today we have about 495,000 UPSers around the world. A few years ago, when the COVID demand was peaking, we had 540,000 UPSers. So Kate and Nando have done a masterful job of managing our operational headcount to meet the volume in our company. And they've done that by managing turnover and attrition and closing sorts and reducing block hours, et cetera. We have about 85,000 UPSers who are management, and this can be full-time and part-time management. The targeted headcount falls really within that group as well as some contractors that will be leaving us. And to Brian's point, this is really about a new way of working. So it's a $1 billion of cost out now, but there's even more cost out to come as we have a full-year benefit in 2025.
So we believe that productivity is a virtuous cycle here at UPS. And I'll give you one example, then I'm going to throw it over to Nando to address this. But if I look at just one metric, cube utilization, we reach the highest cube utilization in our company history at 60%. That's the equivalent of reducing 1,500 loads per day. So that's not in hours, but it's just a cost out. So we've got productivity across the operations. And Nando, why don't you talk about what you're going to do in 2024?
And at our Investor Day in March, we're going to talk to you about network of the future. We've got an integrated network. We don't have to integrate, but we can transform our network with some very exciting ideas. So we're going to share that with you in March.
Yeah, we're never done. We continue to drive productivity. It's a virtuous cycle here, and technology has changed so much in the past year. When you think about the advent of Generative AI and the applications inside of our business, we're just getting started and I'm really excited about what the future will mean in terms of driving productivity and as well as improving the customer experience.
Yeah. We'd be happy to do that. But we're going to kick that question to our March conference because we've got a great presentation to share with you regarding network of the future, and it would take up way too much time today to go through that. We want to spend a good amount of time talking to you about that in March. So thank you for understanding.
I'll start with a few comments about Project Brown. Project Brown really is a new way of going after business and it has many elements to it, and I'll make some of those real to you. First of all, we looked at ourselves and said, what's getting in the way of speed? Because it was taking us too long to respond to a customer. And we found that we hadn't really declared service level agreements amongst the various groups that participate in this exercise of providing offers to our customers.
So we shortened up the time to response and that's important and that's going to be with us now forever. I can make that real for you. Outside of the United States, it used to take 22 days. We dropped it to six days. We're now at two days. That's best in class. And we've made similar improvements in the United States. Project Brown was also looking at Deal Manager. Deal Manager is the new tool that we introduced that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to score a deal and avoid the need for our salespeople to go up to our pricing people for appeals, they can actually see the score of their deal.
We've had great acceptance and win rates, 79% win rates with this tool. But we found through Project Brown that we weren't offering all of our products in the tool and one of the products we weren't offering was SurePost, which is a great product. So we introduced SurePost into the Deal Manager, and we're getting some good return on that. That's particularly attractive for our small and medium-sized customers.
Another thing that we did is that we improved and increased weekend pickups in several key markets during the year. So and I could go on and on and on, but this is a way of operationalizing excellence to drive the business and capture share. So where are we going to capture share? We're going to continue to lean into the small and medium-sized segment opportunities, we're seeing some real success in that area. We're going to continue to lean into healthcare. When I started here, the healthcare revenues are around $6 billion, now at $10 billion, and we're going to continue to grow. We'll lay out our three-year growth plans for you at our March Investor Day.
I think you'll be very pleased with that. We're going to continue to sell off the service that we provide and the capabilities that we have that actually no one else has, that's our integrated network. So at our Investor Day in March, we'll lay out market share capture. Let me just make the market real for you because this might be helpful too. As we think about the addressable market, the addressable market in the United States. It's a little over 52 million packages a day. So there's plenty of addressable market for us to go get. And plenty of market for us to get outside of the United States because we are underpenetrated in so many areas. One reason I called out our new air hub in the Hong Kong International Airport is that the greater China Bay area is unbelievable economic power base, the 13th largest economy in the world, 37% of all China exports go through that airport. And today, we have small way overcapacity hubs and buildings that are inefficient with lease rates that are sky high. So we are building a 20,000 square meter facility. It will make us the second largest air hub in that important part of the market. So expect to see a lot of growth coming off of that over time.
So I would say that the pricing environment is very rational. And you can see that as Brian ticked out the RPP performance in the fourth quarter, we had very strong base rate performance. Now the RPP was muted because of lower fuel costs and product characteristics and the product mix change and lower demand surcharges, but the base was very strong. And we expect the base to continue into 2024, our GRI for 2024 is 5.9%. Will we keep all of it? No. But will we keep a lot of it? Yes, just like we did in 2023, we kept about 60% of the GRI in 2023. So the pricing environment is rational. In terms of competitive products, it's incumbent upon us to stay at leading edge and meeting our customers where they want us to be. That's one reason we offered a hyper-local product beginning last quarter, which is really a short-zone product. We haven't had that before. And as we look at the offerings that we will go to market with this year, we've got some things underway, not ready for prime time, but I suspect looking over at our new Chief Commercial Officer, Matt Guffey, that we might be able to talk about that at our March investor conference and he's nodding his head. So stay tuned for that.
Well, what really softened up was Europe. If you look at our volume decline, both domestic and export, it was heavily weighted in Europe. In fact, the decline in our export was 94%, driven by the softness in Europe. So you see what's happening with industrial manufacturing there is just way off. So that is a big change. There are also dynamics happening in air and ocean freight as you've been watching. We've all been watching the drama in the Red Sea, the fact that the water levels in the Panama Canal are low, and that certainly is causing a lot of chaos actually in ocean and air freights. Interestingly, on the air side, both rates and volumes were down. On the ocean side, volumes are up. But as Brian called out, the rates were considerably down. As we sit here today, it's a very dynamic market and ever-changing. A little hard to predict candid like is what we're seeing today is for shippers who have high value packages, they're actually -- they're worried about the ocean conditions, so they're moving to the air. So air rates are tightening a bit. And on the ocean side, because shippers are starting to have to reroute away from the Red Sea or the Panama Canal, the routing is taking longer, so there's some change to the dynamics of the pricing there too. We just have to stay super nimble here and Kate and her team are doing a great job at that. Kate, what would you like to add here?
Maybe another comment because this is just an interesting observation on the market. If I look at our top five decliners in the quarter, that would include our largest customer and there's an intentional decline there. But then if I look at the remaining decliners, it's really interesting to see what's happening. Of those, only one has diverted some volume. They're a dual sourcer and they have diverted some volume. And I suspect they'll stay dual-sourcing. The rest, either their business is just way off or they have worked really hard to create a better experience inside the store to encourage buy online pick up in store. So there is a bit of dynamic happening within our large enterprise customers. I think for all of us, we're delighted to have anniversaried the demand that we saw through COVID. Now that that's behind us, now that the volume for the small package market has reverted back to the mean, this is an opportunity now for everyone to grow.
I'm happy to address the Coyote question to the best of my ability. I was on the Board in 2015 when we bought the company but the strategic rationale was really about expanding the portfolio. And it was a very thoughtful strategic rationale to expand the portfolio. But I don't think we fully understood at the time was just how cyclical this business is. And I'll make it real for you. When we acquired Coyote in 2015, the revenue in the previous year for Coyote were $2.1 billion. During COVID, Coyote peaked up to over $4 billion in revenue. Well, it's gone way down since then. In fact, if you look at our Supply Chain Solutions business, it was down $3 billion year-on-year, which is a third of the overall company decline. Within that $3 billion, Coyote made up 38% of the decline for the year and 48% of the decline for the fourth quarter. So you can see the volatility in the revenue line, and then we've got a business that has a very low margin. So if you've got that kind of volatility on the revenue line, you're going to have even more volatility on the earnings line. So we're like, gosh, is there are another way to skin this cat. Can we think about an alternative that continues to allow us to provide the service but without all the overhead? Or perhaps this business is worth more to someone else than it is to us. We don't know. We don't know the outcome of our alternative work. But as soon as we do, we'll share that with you. And on the freighter question.
Thank you.
Yeah. The longer-term view is very good. It's 3%. So that's really good growth actually. And we're looking forward to getting into that growth mode. We use a number of external factors to inform our perspective on the market growth. We triangulate from a number of different sources and come up with our best view. This is our best view.