Daniel Fisher
Daniel Fisher
Ball Corporation (BALL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Hey, good morning.
Sure. Yeah, so I think in Europe, what you'll see is -- I think in both Europe and North America, you'll see volumes get better. Sequentially, I think you'll start to return to growth somewhere in the second quarter in North America and you'll see growth in the second, third and the fourth quarter in Europe as well.
As we've -- North America is unique, obviously, because we're lapping the difficult comp there, but we'll get to flat for the full year in that range, maybe a little better. But you'll start to see sequential improvement towards the end of the year and then heading into 2025 will be kind of in that growth range of 2% to 3%, I believe heading into 2025.
That being said, Ghansham, it's early days, but we're a little ahead here in January, really in all three regions. That should be noted. So, it's only one month, obviously, but we're actually seeing positive inflections in the U.S. for the last four weeks, slightly favorable. And for one week, we're favorable. And that's the first time in a couple years that we've seen that. So, knock on wood off to a decent start. I'm not overly excited, but it's better than it has been. So that's a positive.
And then in South America, we believe like mid single digit growth. Brazil continues to be strong for us. Our exposure to the other markets will play a role. Argentina is a little ahead of what we thought it would be from a plan basis. But that's still down year-over-year. But I think a lot of the changes that the executive branch made in Argentina, they're coming off as a little bit more favorable than I think a lot of the world thought would happen from macroeconomic standpoint at the tail in the last year. So, we're a bit encouraged there, but it is Argentina. Let's see what happens. So, 2% to 3% growth globally mid to high single digits for South America, low mid single digits for Europe and flattish with a lean that we could get a little bit of growth in North America for 2024.
Yeah.
Sure, Ghansham. So, let me try to walk you through that a little bit. I think we have a tax payment that's going to be associated with the aerospace divestiture that runs through our operating. And so, obviously, it's going to impact our free cash flow. We have talked about a $650 million CapEx number that we anticipate as well. And then what we're doing, and we talked about a little bit in the third quarter, but here in 2024 we will be unwinding some of the factoring the balance sheet AR that we've historically used. And so that will obviously be an outflow from a cash flow perspective. And so, we're targeting, let's call it roughly half a billion dollars in that as well. And so -- but maybe to speak to the underlying business, we will continue to generate the operating earnings that you see roughly in the range of 15 to 18 in terms of a billion consistent with what you saw here in 2023.
Yeah.
Sure.
Sure. I think speaking to -- I think your question leans a little bit into am I seeing any promotional activity? Is there anything different just in the domestic landscape here? I'd say what we're hearing from our customers and it's manifesting slightly, you don't see a lot of promotional activity in January. You do as we -- now the next two weeks as we lead in the Super Bowl is typically when you would see some traditional and we are seeing some of that. But I think writ large, what everyone of the large CPG customers is acknowledging is that they're going to have to fight for top line this year. And that should benefit. It should benefit us. That should benefit the industry. We're seeing some inflections of growth, as I mentioned in the four week and the one week that look different than I think the last 18 to 24 months. So that's all positive.
And then relative to kind of filling the Bud Light hole, if you will. Yes, there's some incremental volume that's helping to net impact that. But for us, we do a lot of that product and they have a vertical. And so, we're exposed to that brand. The things that were exposed to elsewhere are much smaller. They're growing. They're filling in some of the hole, but it's not -- it's not material, I would say it's incrementally better, not materially better. It's still the best thing is going to be other products from that particular brewer to grow. And so, I think that with a combination of you are seeing that brand kind of bottom out and starting to increment up.
So, all of those things we anticipated it looking like this probably for the last six to nine months. And we've indicated that. There's nothing meaningful different from a guidance standpoint that I could really share at this point. We may see a little bit more now that we're heading into Super Bowl and some more traditional promotional activities. But I don't think you completely close the gap on this until we see other brands, other products kind of close that gap for us here as we lap the April sunsetting of that marketing issue.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah. I think within North America, we're satisfied. I think we're seeing other industry participants kind of model our behavior. What we've done just at a high level, and I appreciate the question is we've really retired candidly older, less efficient assets that we're going to require a lot more maintenance CapEx to get them up to where we need to be to perform in the marketplace.
So we've got, if you will, a more fit for purpose structure in North America. And as you see volumes inflect, we won't need cost out what we just need to do is continue to run these facilities as we are continue to ramp up the learning curve. Some of these are still new with new lines. And all of that will lend itself to a more productive and a higher profitable leverage fall through as we see the ramp up.
Europe, I think we think we've got -- we've got to continue to look at Europe. I think we've got to continue to look at South America just be cognizant of the fact that there's a lot going on in those regions. There's a couple conflicts in Europe and the Middle East. So all of that will certainly play a role. Inflationary pressures, whether or not the regasification takes place in the mirror in which we think in Europe. So, a lot going into those conversations and decisions, but I think our footprints really solid to deliver on the plans that we've built here, pretty modest growth for this year. And just trying to take advantage of all the actions that we've laid in place and continue to see plants perform and more productivity to be generated as volumes inflect.
Yeah.
Morning.
Yeah. I do think it'll be in that two to four range. I don't -- there's been some contractual shifts a little bit that's been well documented. So, us being flat means that we've rebalanced our portfolio. I think some others may be growing a bit. So yeah, I'd say low end is the 2%. Let's see what happens in peak season, but we're off to a much more normalized pricing behavior by our customers which is really -- we've talked about, this we need to see that in order to feel some level of confidence in the underlying volumes, and they need volume. So, I'm feeling good. It's in that longer term range with the possibility to inflect into 2025. There's a number of conversations in and around some substrate shift. That's back in the ether in a manner in which it hasn't been for the last couple years, so you might exit the year with a slightly better run rate, but I think that two to three, two to four is a pretty good range industry-wide.
Yeah. I think from a balance sheet standpoint, our current spec depending on what region you're in it could be better and could be worse just for full disclosure. I think our plans and the investments that you're starting to see and rolling capacity coming online that's not fully online that continues to be invested in. And a number of those, it's 85% recycled content that's been guaranteed on the sheet, it's green energy and the backdrop of what's going to be fueling those facilities. So a lot of that's happening and a lot of that's happening around the world. We're already, for example, in Brazil, much better than any other substrate in terms of the carbon footprint there. And so a lot of the -- a lot of the supply chain, a lot of the investments and a lot of that industrial complex and around aluminum will reflect getting to where Brazil is.
On top of that, there are technologies that are being introduced on the virgin aluminum side that are quite encouraging. And we actually just introduced 10% virgin aluminum on our cup with 90% recycled content that's very close to carbon neutral, because the virgin aluminum now, there's a couple of aluminum companies that have developed carbon free smelting operations and technologies. Those will continue to be invested in, a number of companies will do that. And so as you start to progress toward 2030 really being the goal, whereby people are going to have to put up or shut up. I like the trajectory of flight for aluminum right now much more than I did even two years ago to be quite honest with you.
So, I think the investments are showing up. This -- the supply chain are committed in a lockstep in a number of associations to get to some of these aspirational targets. And there are offtake agreements and investments happening to ensure that that happens. So, this is no longer a theoretical argument for us. We have real plans to get there. And I'm confident we'll get there in a shorter period of time than anybody else. But we have to continue to see that investment and continue to step into that.
So that's the truth. And we're headed and it's going to become more and more transparent and we're working with our customers to get there. They need this as well with some of the SEC reporting that's being talked about in 2027 and obviously the European reporting requirements that show up in 2026. So, we're kind of sprinting after this carbon neutrality in a way that everybody's kind of got to put up or shut up. And I think we're in a good spot to deliver.
Yeah. We have the ability now with our -- we're talking specifically in North America, we have the ability. We've got a little slack capacity. We're running our plants much better than we were over the last two to three years. And so, I think we're going to be able to react better. We have much better dialogue, much better supply plans, much better S&OP process. We were all forced to dust those off over a COVID and the supply chain
Okay. Thank you. Sorry about that. We lost connection there for a second. I think in response to the last question, I think we're in a good spot to react to volume surges, if you will, just because of how we're operating in North America, the slack capacity we have in the conversations and the S&OP process that's been established and currently being refined and improved upon each and every day. So, feel good about our ability to react to that.
Good morning.
Yeah. Keep in mind just as a reference point. This year had a bit of catch up in terms of PPI economics. And so if you -- I think a go forward position more in line with our historical, if we get a percent of growth, we should get 2X in terms of earnings inflection. There's a chance to do a bit better because our footprint is in a better spot. It's more cost effective. But I would think in that 2X the volume unit growth in terms of earnings flow through and maybe a smidge more for the next coming years, depending on mix and channel and category and customer.
And the two regions specifically building on that is where the higher cost programs are in South America and in North America, but South America even the current spot market interest rates.
Good morning.
Yeah. I think the industry writ large in North America, I think is specifically your question is in a good spot, and keep in mind we're probably holding on to the majority of the excess capacity given the beer brand. So, we're managing that. We're managing that on a cash basis. That'll inflect over a period of time. But I think the industry -- again, if we're growing -- if the industry is growing at 2% to 4%, I think this is a good equilibrium to operate from in terms of asset utilization and supply demand balance.
Yeah. So, the volume comment, there's a joke in here. I would expect them to be drinking more. But in all honesty, what we're seeing is -- the beer space is quite resilient and can growth and aluminum packaging growth versus glass has been very positive over the last handful of years. Let's see how folks get on there. But we're looking at Argentina being essentially flattish, maybe a tick better year-over-year 2022 to 20 -- excuse me -- 2023 to 2024. And inflecting in the back half of the year, probably in terms of volume and into 2025. But they continue to drink beer and they continue to drink beer out of cans and I just don't see a tremendous amount of growth or we shouldn't be counting on tremendous amount of growth versus last year until things start to settle down a bit more there. I'll let…
Yeah. Phil, I think you're right. I think South America and North America ended the year inflecting favorably in terms of volume versus sort of our anticipation in Europe was softer. We started to see that at the third quarter call and signaled that, but it was even a bit softer than that. Places that we operate in that also contributed to that. I think Egypt and Turkey weren't helpful in terms of volumes in the fourth quarter. So that was a bit of what you're seeing in terms of a drag.
Where we started the year, again, it's four weeks. We're a little bit better than what we thought. And we thought we'd be kind of flattish to down in the first quarter year-over-year for Europe. Right now, through the first four weeks, it's actually a little better. We thought that heading into peak season in the second half of next year, inflation would moderate in Europe and consumers would do a little better. I think you've seen a lot of retailers get pretty aggressive with CPG companies in terms of what prices they're showing on the shelves. And I think that is that -- all of those conditions should move favorably toward volume for us. So, hopefully that gives you some indication.
We're still looking for modest growth for Europe inflecting sequentially in the quarters in the back half of the year. And we might be able to do just a smidge better here in the first quarter if all of these things continue to manifest in the way they are right now that we're seeing.
Yeah.
Hi, Adam.
Yeah. I mean, Adam, I do think that we have quite a bit going on in Argentina. You saw the volume sawing off. I think as we think about the business and as we do various scenario planning, we continue to contemplate how things are looking with the fiscal policies and the like. But if you've looked at that business historically, it has been one of our best performing regions. And we continue to monitor obviously and derisk where we're possible. But as of today, our belief is that that market and we want to make sure that -- we support the customers there and our view on that business being intact long-term remain.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yes. We are making a more conscious effort to push innovation and it's being received. It's a catch 2022, right? Somebody has to be asking for it as well. And we're seeing more of that. I think I made reference to this in the last earnings call as well. It's going to take innovation and it's going to take differentiation for our customers. It's not just going to be pricing as they move forward. And so, in order to grow, they're going to have to get back to what they've historically done.
New product launches, new brand launches, new innovations, all of that's going to matter. And that is something that we do really well. And so, we're stepping into those opportunities and that's why we called it out. And I suspect over the back half of this year and in 2025, you'll start to see some things show up on shelves that we're encouraged about. I'll leave it there.
No. It doesn't require headcount. I think we have -- what we need. You've always got to look at your business and identify whether you have the right skill mix, whether you're right -- and I think those are the things that we're doing. And candidly, we'll talk about this more at Investor Day in June, but we're on the verge of being exclusively an aluminum packaging company. And we have a couple advantages, right? We are great at innovation, and we can sell sustainability at scale. And those two things need appropriate resources behind them. But that does not mean we're adding cost. In fact, we should be able to do this in a much more efficient manner than we have historically.
We're definitely growing with folks that are taking shelf space and share. It is inflecting in a couple of plants directly located to those customers. I wouldn't say it's meaningful across the system and it will continue to grow. But you really won't see those shelf space impacts until peak season. That's where it really manifests. And so, Q2 and Q3 will be something that could kind of alter hopefully positively our outlook as we're giving it today.
Thank you.
Hi, Gabe.
That's exactly it. I mean 3 billion and somewhere in that $8,200 million impact.
Yeah. Gabe, I think I've got it, sorry.
Let me start with South America. No, we should see an inflection in earnings year-over-year. Some of the factoring that we're retiring will help contribute to that. And we will see earnings growth off of the volume growth. And so, it will more or less mirror 2X the volume growth. It may come in a different form via AR factoring retirement and some interest expense being retired within our SG&A bucket. But it will -- if we grow 5%, we should grow close to 10% earnings in that range. We'll have mixed that a lot of said it country to country, but we have mechanisms to -- continue to inflect profitably on that growth, which we're encouraged by.
And then your other question, I said the bridge, let me help you with some bridge items in North America. I think there's one piece that you didn't cover, which is in the first quarter. And Howard made this in his opening comments. The VP Fp&A [ph], you got $30 million. There's a like amount associated with the brand disruption. So, the unit volume we sold and the absorption we got from that brand that had the marketing issue in April is a like amount. So it's closer to $60 million in the first quarter in North America.
You will get the PPI benefits and the other things I think the way you laid out, it was in a very constructive manner. And we're not anticipating anything inflecting mid-year. Right now, I think if PPI -- excuse me -- if inflation continues to be in a moderated position, it won't be a plus or minus like we've been talking about here the last two and a half, three years. I think it'll be more or less, we can offset whatever inflationary pickup via productivity gains. So, it won't be a bridge item, but you're right. We have to carry-in for the first six months. You've identified it correctly in terms of the quarter capture on the numbers. But the only thing that I would call out is the additional $30 million disruption probably from the brand issue in Q1.
Yeah.
Sure, Jeff.
Yeah. Good question. So, it's not just Carrefour. It's all throughout Europe. Europe is much more regulated on price increases. So by virtue of that, what you can do in North America and what you can do in Europe are vastly different. But what is happening is the retailers are moving very aggressive against brands that are contemplating price increases in Europe. And that disruption is a positive thing for us.
In North America, it's also happening not as publicly. But I do think in North America, the brands have much more power in terms of their ability to price. And that's something that they're able to leverage, but they still have to have volume growth, and volume declined in the fourth quarter for a lot of those major brands at the end of the -- in Q3 in a manner in which everyone's going to have to take a different and a more historical approach to pricing.
Volume is going to have to show up. And I think that's what the reaction has been in Europe in a really pronounced way because their inflationary pressures because the energy concerns have been much more present. And I think that's something that is regulated and it's also something where end consumers have really fallen off in terms of volume purchases in the fourth quarter.
So hopefully that helps. But yes, different behavioral patterns in North America and Europe. It's always been that way. But I do think the aggressive nature of the retail sentiment now in Europe probably lends itself to a better outlook for us in terms of volume.
No, I think what we're pointing to -- so this is something that we were seeing in the fourth quarter. It's newsworthy now, but this is not something that would alter, I think, our outlook quite yet. I think what's more important is like the regasification and the inflationary pressures that folks are experiencing in the end consumer across Europe. That will be more important than I think this retail issue of 5% price versus 7%, 3%, something along that nature. So, we do believe that there'll be sequential volume improvement in Europe and it will inflect to kind of a low to mid single digit number kind of in that 3%-ish range for growth in Europe in our business. And that'll be stronger toward the back end of the year. And then to your point, yes, 2025 will be stronger even more.
Thank you. And Christina, we'll take one more question.
Okay. Thanks everybody. And we'll hopefully see most of you at the Investor Day here in June. Thanks very much.