Chris Swift
Chris Swift
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (HIG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Andrew, I’ll start and then Beth can add her commentary. So yes, I appreciate you pointing out the numbers. I think also, too, on a year-to-date basis, 2022 to 2023, the 60 basis point improvement, which, on a full year basis, I think, is a good run rate.
And all I would say is, philosophically, we do have a continuous improvement mindset in the organization to get after additional expense efficiencies. I wouldn’t say we have a formal program that we called out. But clearly, it’s in everyone’s goals to become more efficient, create that operating leverage that as we grow the franchise, we just – it’s a good levered model that more earnings drops to the bottom line. But Beth, what would you add?
Yes. Andrew, on your first point, and Stephanie can add in her commentary, the 21.9%, I think we achieved is vast, vast majority, all pure rate. There might be a little exposure in there but very, very little. And I did say five to six points of improvement in auto next year. So – no, it’s okay. I’m okay with numbers, so I’ll help you out, five to six. So, we ended the year at 110. We think we can get down to 104 next year on an underlying basis. And that’s why, again, we’re going to have to continue to execute and work hard in 2025 to get down then to targeted margins, which I would say, on an underlying basis on auto is generally in the 95% to 96% range. You put two points for catastrophes on there, and that’s your overall combined ratio.
So yes, that’s our plan. As I said before, I think Stephanie and the team have a very executable plan. They’re executing well in the marketplace today and balancing, balancing new business, balancing renewals and balancing our spend in marketing. Stephanie, would you add any additional color?
Say it again. I didn’t hear you clearly.
Yes. Clearly, the rate that we achieved this year is contributing. And as I said, we’re anticipating 20 points of rate also next year, which is very important, because that then sets up getting back to our targeted margins in 2025.
Thank you for the question. I’m happy to provide any clarity. I thought anchored was actually a pretty good word, because it really means sort of floor, in my mind. And Greg, we had a 14% to 15% ROE range as guidance last year. We’re giving qualitative guidance this year as opposed to sort of the table. So, we really wanted to send a strong message that we’re shifting and it’s shifting higher. And the construct we came up with was let’s just anchor 15% as far as the floor for everyone’s expectations.
We always, when we put out guidance, have a high probability of meeting that. And we play for upside. And you saw the way we ended 2023. And I’d say I think we’re off to a good start this year, and I think there will be upside in that floor number that we provide. But that was the mindset behind that.
Yes. Happy to, Greg. And I’ll ask Jonathan Bennett who’s with us to add his color. No, I think it’s a great business. We’ve always – I think it fits within The Hartford. It contributes mildly and it’s improved, particularly coming out of COVID. So, I would just say that the 6% to 7%, we’ve been pretty consistent. That’s our long-term view. We’re commenting on a long-term view for that business and particularly given some of the rate guarantees that are in that book of business. So – but I would also say that we had an excellent record year this year and that momentum, I think, will continue into 2024. And we like how it’s positioned. We like our strategic initiatives. We like how we’re investing for the future in this business. So yes, it’s going to be and will remain a significant contributor going forward.
Jonathan, what would you add?
Greg, one last point. Remember, that 6% to 7% we've commented upon before turns into a 14% to 15% tangible ROE. So again, it's another rising – reason why we like this business so much. Margins are generally steady predictable and our ROEs are very contributory to us, particularly on a tangible basis.
Yes. Mike thanks for the question. Yes, those are a reality of our society today, right? Social inflation, legal system abuse, however you want to call it. So it's alive and well. It's nothing new for many, many industry participants, but it is still something you have to be aware of, particularly in the umbrella in the excess liability lines.
I'll ask Mo to add his commentary. But I think we've been thoughtful about the trends over the last couple of years and the need to stay on top of those trends with rate. And that's why I say particularly, we're looking for an element of consistency with 2023. Because in a lot of those long-tail liability casualty lines we need high-single to low-double digit rate increases to stay on top of the trend assumptions that we have.
So yes, it's all part of managing multiple product line approach. But again, in aggregate, I think the setup is very similar to last year's setup at the time when we talked about it is that there's going to be some slight pressure on comp. And we're going to try to maintain and expand margins where possible in other lines of business.
But Mo, what would you say specifically in the casualty world?
Yes. I'll let Beth add her color, but I think you're splitting hairs. So our opcos are well capitalized. You see what we have left in authorization through the end of 2024. Our intention is to complete that on a timely basis.
But Beth, I don't want to take any more of your thunder.
Brian, I know what you're trying to triangulate to. So all I'd say qualitatively on any top line point because we're not going to give a precise number in aggregate or by line of business is, I think the macro sets up well. I think the economy is performing well. You saw the jobs report this morning, and unemployment remains low. You could see the Fed as being a little cautious on how quickly it cuts rates, which actually we support. So I think the macro sets up well.
All I would tell you is that what we saw in January, early indications are much of the same coming out of 2023 and sort of that double-digit range in commercial. So one-month does not make a trend. But I think the environment will be fairly conducive to continuing going forward. So we perform very well when the economy is performing well, and I think that's the general view I have heading into 2024.
Yes. There's always things to be concerned about and worry about. That's not one of the top ones and principally because bluntly we've been there done that. Part of our integration and activities with the acquisition we did years ago was to deal with sort of with those balance sheet reserving issues that we knew were there and saw. So I think we've tackled that appropriately. I think we've made the adjustments in those older years, adjusted our loss picks and trends going forward. So I feel very comfortable and confident we got our arms around that issue a couple of years back.
Would you add anything, Mo?
Yes. Again, Elyse, what I tried to describe is that the setup is similar, right? So if there's pressure in comp, it needs to be offset by other components, non-comp in our product lines. You've seen what we've done with accelerating pricing, particularly in the fourth quarter. That mindset continues into 2024. So when I say hold or expand, that's what I mean.
And look, I can't predict with great precision the top line, but I think there'll be some slight expense leverage. That will also contribute overall. So that's what I would say.
So ADC utilization, all I would say is it really depends, obviously, right I mean on the obviously on the navigators acquisition. It was part of the purchase price and funding there and dealing with it. So that's different.
The A&E deal that we did with NICO was just slightly different as far as long term. So if we would do anything again in the future, it would have to be economic for us first off, and a lot of those deals that we did prior were just in a lower interest rate environment, just a different part of our development as an organization. And our performance, so the guiding principle that Beth and I talk about all the time is just what makes sense from an economic side, because they're not cheap and they're actually expensive.
So you give up things to do it, to have that economic cover. So I would just say, Josh, it depends, and we're going to always try to think in terms of what is the best economics for the shareholders and pursue then the right strategy from there.
Yes, I think you got it right. Totally. Six, seven, eight years ago, we were just in a different place. And I just think we're in a better place. We have prudence on the balance sheet. That feels good. And so, yes you're right. Totally different place.
Well, we never give up. We keep on pushing ourselves to reset the bar higher, perform better. We have a growth orientation now that I think we've earned the right to think differently and creatively about the marketplace and activities we could pursue that are profitable and accretive to our shareholders. Josh. So I would never, ever bet against us.
David, I would say, yes we're pleased with what we accomplished this year, but it's not the end of the mission or it's really just sort of the beginning. So growing that book about 20% to $2.5 billion, I'm looking at my pricing sheet, with overall pricing up on the full portfolio, about 16%. Our non-CAT property weather was essentially on plan for the year between our various business units. So feel really good about the underwriting, the tools.
Obviously, our reinsurance programs that Beth talked about, we made adjustments to. So we have all the components. Obviously, it's still a constructive marketplace to really build that national diversified book of business that we want to have. So just because you asked, and I like you, I'm going to tell you that I think we could produce about $3 billion of premium next year.
Well, the exposure piece I can give you right now that I have in my mind is related to pricing, right? So if you look at our pricing expanding to 8.5% this quarter, about 2.5 points of it is exposure-related. So if you go back and look at – it's been generally consistent, sort of, I would say, one-third, two-third. So that's what I have there. But I'll look to Mo and Stephanie to see if they want to add any color on exposure and Personal Lines or Middle Market.