Ezra Yacob
Ezra Yacob
EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Yes, Leo. This is Ezra. Thanks for the question. Yeah. What I would say is you can expect out of Dorado similar treatment to what we did last year. I mean, to start with, we already reduced our activity level at Dorado by reducing the rig activity. And then we'll be flexible just like we were last year with completions and when we're bringing those wells on throughout the year with respect to the natural gas market.
I think when you're talking about the gas growth and the gas guide for the company in general, you bring up a good point. When we look at U.S. gas growth from Q4 exit rates to the 2024 midpoint guide, you're really seeing about 80 million a day in the domestic gas growth. And then what's a little bit unique to this year is the amount of gas growth we're actually seeing out of Trinidad. That's actually contributing a significant amount of gas growth at the company level from the Q4 exit rates to the midpoint 2024 guide for Trinidad. You're seeing about a 50 million a day growth rate there. So a little bit unique. And as you guys know, we've got a consistent program down in Trinidad. We've been in the middle of a drilling campaign for this year, and we're also still under construction on a platform that we plan on placing at the end of this year.
And the unique thing about Trinidad, of course, is that their current supply and demand fundamentals on gas are, quite frankly, almost opposite of what we're seeing domestically here in the U.S. That's a country which, up until the last decade, used to have a very robust supply of natural gas. And in the last decade or so, that's been decreasing. So they find themselves really undersupplied on the natural gas side for their domestic needs. And, of course, we sell all of our gas currently into the domestic market at pricing that's slightly advantaged and makes those projects down there very competitive with the rest of our domestic portfolio.
Outside of that, the U.S. gas growth is really -- the majority of that 80 million a day is really associated gas that's coming off of our liquids rich and oil plays.
Yeah. Doug, thanks for the question. This is Ezra. Yeah. The cumulative free cash flow over the three-year period in the three-year scenario here that you highlighted on slide five, it's roughly 10% higher than the previous three years here that we have. So you see expanding margins in that three-year scenario. And unfortunately what we haven't given you is some of those specific details that you're really getting into. What we have talked about, and we talked about this in November, and then you and I talked about it again in your conference there in November, is our maintenance capital number currently is midpoint of 4.5 under a variety of different scenarios for a multi-basin organic growth company like ourselves, that maintenance capital will kind of range from 4.2 to 4.8. And that depends on, again, are we trying to keep oil flat, equivalents flat. Are we really just focused on maintaining production? Or are we actually investing in additional exploration and infrastructure and things of that nature?
When you look and roll that into the three-year scenario, since we are growing volumes, you're right, that maintenance capital should be trending up a little bit. That's also going to be offset in the real world by some of the deflationary factors that we have moving towards us throughout this three-year plan.
What I would say is that we don't see that the free cash flow is flatlining. In fact, what we see is a 6% cash flow and free cash flow per share compound annual growth rate across that three-year scenario.
Yeah. Doug, to quote you, that is a bit of a random question. We're always organically exploring for things. With regards to the Canadian assets, we were up there a number of years ago and we strategically exited that asset.
At the real heart of your question, the way to think about the strategy for us is we've captured a tremendous resource down here in South Texas in the Dorado natural gas play. What we're building is a low-cost gas business that really sits alongside our core oil investment. And so when we think about capital allocation, it's not necessarily allocating more capital to gas rather than oil. It's really looking at these assets in place independently and what's the best thing for the company to continue to drive down our breakevens, continue to build value for the shareholders.
With regards to the Utica and some of the other emerging assets, in a lot of ways our premium and double premium return threshold makes us a little bit ambivalent or agnostic to the actual hydrocarbon type that we're producing because again, these things are really a return-based question. When you layer in the macro environment, we do need to have consideration on that. Going forward with the gas market, this year definitely does look a little bit soft. We touched on that just a little with Leo's question at the top of the Q&A. But we still do remain constructive on the U.S. domestic gas market, say, 12 months and further out from here as the LNG demand continues to come on. And with some of the announcements we've made today, you can see that we plan on being a part of that solution going forward.
Scott, that's a good question. I think when we think about buybacks, again, we think about what's the best way to create long-term shareholder value. That's it. You're right. We've seen our multiple compressed. We've seen really multiples compressed across all of industry. I think you don't have to look any further than the weighting of energy in the S&P 500 at approximately 5%, maybe a little bit under that, with close to 10% on forecasted earnings. So I do think we sit currently in what we'd say is a dislocated environment. And from that regard, I think as we move forward and generate a significant amount of free cash flow this year with our minimum commitment to shareholders to return 70% of that free cash flow to our shareholders, you could anticipate that being more in the form of buybacks right now.
Now, when we look back at what we have done historically on buybacks, in 2023, we were very active in the first half of the year, during some real dramatic dislocations, I would say, regional banking crisis and the debt ceiling conversations and things like that. Now, we did, as an example, take a step back on buybacks in Q3 as oil price rose from $69 to $93 throughout that quarter. And obviously, there was some share price appreciation as well. And then in the fourth quarter with volatility entering the sector, again, the continued multiple compression across industry and across EOG, we obviously stepped back into it.
When we think about it, we think about the strength of the company as we continue to improve. I think you can see with our three-year scenario, we continue to expand the free cash flow potential of the company. We continue to do that while generating high returns. I think really -- like I said, currently, we would consider ourselves in a dislocated environment.
Yeah. Thanks, Neil. That's a good point. I think you will continue to see -- so far our models is here for U.S. growth might start there since we're going to be talking about associated gas is really where your question is. It's roughly around a 500,000 barrel total liquids. So roughly say 300,000 barrels more along the crude oil. And obviously, the significant amount of that is going to be coming out of the Permian, which in general, that basin is a little bit higher GOR than some of the historical plays like the Eagle Ford and the Bakken that we've had. And I think you'll continue to see -- our model would suggest you'll continue to see an increase in the associated gas and more than likely a bit more of a differential struggles there with Waha.
We take that into consideration when we're thinking about the development of Dorado. Like I said, you can't forecast a supply and demand or forecast future gas, mid-cycle gas prices without having a recognition of what's happening on the oil side. It's one of the things that makes forecasting gas so difficult. So the ultimate thing, the way that we manage our business and we're trying to grow this gas asset in concert with our oil plays is to really think about being the absolute low-cost producer. And that's one reason you haven't seen us ramp up aggressively in the Dorado asset. It's one reason you've seen us last year and this year moderate activity, because we've captured a significant resource.
We think geographically it's located a place that gives us significant advantage. We've invested in some additional infrastructure, including the Dorado pipeline that's named Verde, that's going to give us a margin expansion over the life of that asset. And that's really the way that we're focusing on developing a pure gas asset is really in concert with the growing future North American demand, which is dominantly driven from the LNG there along the Gulf Coast.
Yeah. Well, as we've talked about before, we're focused on creating shareholder value through the cycles. And the consistent way that we've been able to generate that value is through organic exploration, a focus on low-cost operations and a commitment to capital discipline. We have a high level of confidence in our existing portfolio, and it's aimed at improving the financial performance of the company.
And again, I think you can see that with expanded margins and expanded free cash flow in that three-year scenario we provided. It's underpinned with a 10 billion barrel of equivalent premium resource. And we have meaningful upside with that resource, not only through future conversions, future exploration, but also just through the Utica resource that we've already captured and we've begun discussing.
When you think about our organic exploration effort, our first mover advantage on the three emerging assets, the Dorado North Powder -- I'm sorry, Powder River Basin and the Utica, those three individual assets have the ability to represent, the equivalence of a smaller midsize E&P company, quite frankly. Dorado with 160,000 acres and approximately 20 TCF captured, the Powder River Basin with multiple targets across 380,000 acres, and the Utica asset with over 400,000 acres. So we continue to focus on improving the inventory, not just expanding it.
Unproven resources, we do think trade at a wider discount these days than what proven resources do. And so we're focused on continuing to prove up and drive down the cost of these assets and bring them forward to create that value for our shareholders.
Yeah. John, great question. And yeah, you pretty much hit it on the head. It really just flexes as we move kind of across our acreage into different sections and as the geology changes. So you will see that. If you look at the last four years, you really do see that flex back and forth because we're moving section to section and with our codevelopment strategies strategically codeveloping up from the bottom up to the top of it. So yeah, it will flex kind of through the next handful of years that you see in that three-year scenario.
Thank you. We appreciate everyone's time today. And we want to thank our shareholders for their support, and special thanks to our employees for delivering another exceptional quarter.