1Sarah London
Sarah London
Centene (CNC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure, Stephen. Good morning, and thanks for the question.
Yes, we still feel comfortable with how we’ve accounted for trend in the 2024 bids, and as you heard earlier, no change to 2024 Medicare guidance elements; but let me talk a little bit about what we saw throughout 2023 and underlying trends. Let’s talk macro first and then we can talk Q4.
From in inpatient utilization standpoint, that was pretty consistent throughout 2023 - very little variation quarter over quarter. Where we did see a step up, as we pointed to multiple times throughout the back half of the year, was in Q2 in outpatient, and underneath that, the drivers were fairly consistent through the last three quarters of the year, so orthopedics with DME on either side of that, cardiac and cardiovascular as a subclinical category, so those were pretty consistent full year.
What was incremental in Q4, obviously the biggest item was taking a $250 million PDR. We also saw a COVID step-up between Q3 and Q4 and then sequentially month-over-month in the quarter. We also saw in Medicare only, ILI step up late in Q4. Both of those have come back down, as we’re seeing in January run-out data.
We some RSV vaccine utilization in Q4, partly a function of our continued efforts to get seniors in for their preventative services visits - you heard me talk about that in my prepared remarks. That was also part of intentional investments we made in quality in Q4 as we prepared and positioned for 2024, which as you know is that critical third year in our cycle and our effort to get to 85% of members and 3.5 stars by October of 2025, so those are really the elements of both full year ’23 and then in Q4, and again still feel comfortable with how we’ve accounted for overall trend in the ’24 bids and no change to ’24 guidance for Medicare.
Yes, thanks Josh. We were, as Drew said, very pleased with the way the Medicare team executed in AEP and precision across all of the dimensions that you talked about, again largely in line with expectations. We took an intentional refocus in the ’24 bid strategy to try to align to those lower income, more complex members, as well as the duals and the DSNP population, and successful in terms of what we’re seeing relative to the concentration of duals coming out of AEP, so pretty pleased with where we intentionally focused, what the impact looked like, and again that was really a function of the team going PBP by PBP and building up a strategy where we could invest in those members that we wanted to retain, and in those members that we feel like we’re going to provide the greatest long term value to.
Ken, I don’t know if you want to talk a little bit about some of the calibration we did on distribution as part of that effort overall?
Yes, thanks Kevin. Great question.
On the marketplace front, it’s really just acknowledging that we’re very early in the year, and then I think you point out a really important point relative to the mechanics of the PDR and how that positioned us with the ability to look at full year trend in ’23. I’ll let Drew talk a little bit more about those mechanics.
Yes, thanks AJ. Let me talk a little bit about the dynamic we saw in Q4 and then how we feel as we sit here in early February. Full-year HBR for Medicaid in ’23 was really a function of Q4, and what we saw in Q4 was some of that timing dynamic that we’ve called out since the beginning of redeterminations is a dynamic that we were fully expecting to be managing through, the timing of matching rates with acuity as the risk pool shifts.
So, Q4 was a heavy member roll-off quarter, as we talked about, and later in the quarter we saw some acuity pressure in the portfolio ahead of those 1/1 rates that had been designed to address that acuity clicking in. We also had some of those retro rates also designed to address the acuity coming in late in the year, and like we said, we got some of those before year-end, but not all, so continue to work on those. That’s really what drove that lingering pressure in Q4.
Then as we sit here today, we’ve got really solid visibility into the rate for our 2024 member month - it’s 63% of the book we’ve got visibility for. We’ve got those 1/1 rates now in place and they are in general coming in toward the higher-end of that composite range that Drew mentioned at investor day of 2% to 2.5%, and then we’re still working on that handful of 2023 retro rates that would then come in, in ’24. So, if you take that all together, acknowledge it’s still early in the year, but that’s what makes us feel good about our 90.1 midpoint for the ’24 Medicaid HBR.
Then to your point, as any of those timing dislocations shake out in ’24 and we continue to calibrate and match those up, then as we move into the roll-off of redeterminations in ’25 and beyond, that becomes a tailwind for the book overall.
Yes, thanks Lance for the question. As you pointed out, we’ve had some great positive momentum of late with New Hampshire, Arizona, North Carolina expansion, as well as Oklahoma, and that makes us feel good as we roll into what’s an active RFP season. We obviously have Florida in flight, and really proud of the sunshine team and the work they’re doing, as well as Georgia, and then Texas for later this year and 2025 go-live, so we continue to track that.
We continue to have, I believe, the best BD team in the business, incredibly strong local teams that are being really thoughtful and incrementally forward-looking in terms of, as we said at investor day, making sure that we’re competing on promises kept, not just promises made.
And so that, I think goes to the second part of your question, which is really what are we seeing in the market in terms of the investments we’ve made over the last two years around customer satisfaction and that local community partnership, and we’re really starting to see improvement in terms of partner satisfaction, provider relationships, as well as quality. If you look at our Medicaid quality scores year-over-year, you’re seeing really nice improvement there. Those have been things at the top of our list in terms of focus over the last two years, and I think starting to see those bear fruit, those are really important drivers as states think about who they want as partners relative to the managed Medicaid business.
I would say the other major theme that we continue to hear and we continue to be focused on pretty organically, frankly, is health equity, and so the emergence of the 11/15 waivers and thinking about how to put dollars into things like housing, food, jobs, childcare that ultimately drive pretty significant healthcare outcomes, and that’s something that states are increasingly interested in partnering over. Again, it’s something that Centene has been naturally focused on as a by-product of being local in our approach and having the strengths of those longstanding incumbent relationships.
I think really good improvement in the places that we’ve focused and really good core strength in the areas that are going to matter going forward.
Thanks Cal for the question. As you’ve heard, the demographics for the population that came in during OEP for us were pretty consistent with our expectations, and the distribution of tiers between silver, gold and bronze, also pretty consistent. We still have the majority of our members in that silver tier, so the demographics have not shifted materially.
One of the things that I think is interesting - this may just be the data geek in me - but if you look at what we’re seeing, not just in our book but overall in the market, there are some interesting small shifts in the demographics overall that I think tell us a lot about what’s actually driving the underlying growth, above and beyond just what we know in terms of affordability and awareness from the enhanced and the additional marketing dollars going into navigators and the broker channel. We’re seeing year-over-year-over-year, age coming down slightly, which I think supports our view that we’re seeing a younger pool, we’re seeing a healthier pool, and we’re seeing some of those gig workers coming in.
We’re seeing the distribution in gender between male and female shift a little bit, so more men coming into the marketplace, which we see as a signal of digging deeper into that uninsured population, because women tend to move sooner out of that population. Then we’re also seeing the gold tier as an industry pick up a little bit, which we see as supporting our view that there’s small group migration coming into the market - obviously we’ve got anecdotal evidence around that, but that’s true in our book, that’s true in the overall industry, and again I think very consistent with what we think is driving 31% overall market growth, but pleased as well with the fact that within that growth, we were able to grow our market share within footprint.
The relative to ICRA, obviously that’s still very much a nascent market. The Indiana pilot is very new. I’m happy to say that we sold our first customer in January, so good early proof point; but the goal there for us is really to test and learn and gather data, and we’re pretty confident that we’re going to be incrementally smarter about how that market is evolving as we go throughout the year.
Yes, I mean, I certainly prefer our narrative, and I think about it really specific to Centene, so I appreciate the need to try to harmonize what different companies are seeing, but we remain focused on what we’re seeing in our population, the idea that we saw some of this trend in Q2, that we accounted for it in our 2024 bids, we feel sufficiently--we had a second bite at the apple at the end of the year with the benefit of the full year’s visibility of utilization. The assumptions that we’ve made in 2024, how we feel about our ability to apply clinical initiatives, leverage our value-based relationships and manage through the trend that we’re seeing, that’s really our focus, less so worrying about what others are saying.
Yes, I would echo that and just say that a lot of great execution in the first two years, we’re going to realize that in 2024, but we haven’t stopped. You’ve heard us talk about building the pipeline for 2025 and beyond in terms of additional opportunities. Obviously our long term algorithm has 1% to 2% of margin expansion built in, and we do see additional opportunities to drive efficiency in the business as we standardize our workflows, the ability to then automate that with technology, so really pleased not just with the execution thus far and the discipline to get us here.
We’re really thinking about how we do work going forward. We do see opportunity for continued efficiency in the future.
On that point, I would just note that we’re seeing increase year-over-year in retention of SEP members, which means that we’re poised to capture the benefit of that sophomore effect from that heavy growth we had in SEP last year, so that’s a really nice trend that we’ve been watching and seeing that retention grow year-over-year.
I would say at a high level, we’re pretty pleased, just given the complexity of the portfolio and all of the state-by-state dynamics with the degree to which acuity and rate has matched up relative to timing. Obviously not perfect - we talk about what we saw in Q4, but across the entire portfolio, feeling pretty good about that, which is again part of why we’re still confident in that 90.1 midpoint.
But maybe Drew, you can talk a little bit about risk corridors and other dynamics that we’re tracking relative to that 50 basis point buffer?
Great, thanks Rocco, and thanks everyone for your time and interest this morning. We look forward to providing updates as we move deeper into 2024.