Richard Gonzalez
Rick Gonzalez
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
All right, Terence. This is Rick. So I'll cover the first one. I guess what I would say is, I have nothing new to report today, but what I'd indicate is, we've talked about the criteria that we're going to use to make the decision when we're going to make the transition. That criteria is the same. When we believe that we are comfortable, we've navigated the LOE, and the rest of the business is performing at high level. That's the point at which we want to make the transition, because we think that's the best time to be able to transition the CEO position.
So I understand there's a lot of interest from investors here, that's logical and clear. Maybe what I can do is, give you a little better perspective on the process that we're going to use in order to make the decision with the Board. I would say, the Board has been actively involved for the last four or five years with a lot of emphasis around ensuring that our internal candidate would get the experiences that we thought were needed prior to making the transition. I can tell you from my perspective, that's gone extremely well. We have regularly scheduled Board meetings several times a year where we specifically talk about succession and the progress that we're making.
At the point at which the business has achieved that criteria that I described before, at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting, then I would make a recommendation to the Board that this is the proper time to be able to make the transition. The Board would vote on that recommendation. At the end of that vote, we would send out an announcement to investors.
And what you can expect when you get that announcement is that, we would make an announcement that we were going to make the transition out at some point in the future, in all likelihood four months to six months in the future. And the purpose of that is to make the final transition between myself and that person. And that'll take four months to five months in order to be able to do that.
I would say it's also very likely at that time, based on the discussions I've been having with the Board, is that, I will be named the Executive Chair for a period of time, and the purpose of that will be to make the transition of the full position over a period of time.
So I think it's a very well thought out, I think very well managed process, and I think that's what you can expect going forward.
Steve, this is Rick. I think if you step back and you look over the last, I'd say, 10 years, we were trying to develop a strategy that we fundamentally believed will allow us to be able to offset the Humira LOE and continue to deliver top-tier financial performance as we have for the past 10 years. That was the whole objective. And we knew we had to build a very diversified growth platform in order to be able to do that, to be able to absorb that impact and return to growth as rapidly as possible. And so, we as an executive team focused a lot of energy around how do we do that, how do we build it, how do we do it in the right markets. I think AbbVie, I'm obviously biased, I guess, but I would say our commercial execution has always been exceptional in my opinion.
We understand the markets we're in extremely well. We understand the competitive environment that we compete in those markets extremely well. We understand the patient journey and how that patient journey is affected by access to medicines to ensure that patients can get their medicines routinely and be able to get the benefit of those medicines. It takes all of those things I think to end up with kind of success that we see with assets like Skyrizi and Rinvoq.
But it also takes I think a company that is very good at what I describe as read and react. There are always challenges in businesses as big and as complex as this. And I think the difference between companies that can continue to perform at the top tier, year in and year out is they're good at seeing issues, and then quickly reacting to how they're going to either offset those, or deal with those. We had many of those examples. I'd say the label change on Rinvoq was a great example. But look at where Rinvoq is growing now. And despite that label change many would not have predicted that.
Migraine, was a very challenging market for a period of time. We look at how we've operated with Ubrelvy and Qulipta. And the kind of success we've seen against the competitors in those markets. Neuroscience, very different kind of market with Vraylar. That's all about trying to grow market-share and expand your position there with a very good asset. And so, we're good at that, and I think that is the real differentiator. The other thing I'd say is, I think we have been very efficient at our R&D investment. We obviously don't have the largest R&D investment in the industry. But we produced a tremendous amount of return against that R&D investment.
Now having said that, as we go forward, we know we need to increase R&D as I've said in my comments. We did a fairly significant increase last year despite dealing with the Humira LOE. And we're going to do another fairly significant increase this year because we had some assets that had very, very significant opportunities like 383 and like 400 and several others. They are going to require a large Phase 3 -- multiple large Phase 3 studies to be able to get the kind of label that we need, and that's another thing, I'd say, we're good at. Understanding how you have a competitive label and building your clinical programs to get that.
So, I think it requires all of those things. I don't think there is one magic formula. I think those are the kinds of things that we have honed here at AbbVie an executive team. And we execute very well against those.
And then, this is Rick on the Imbruvica price, yes, we have received the initial offer on Imbruvica recently. As you know, there is a process that CMS is going through here to set pricing. And because none of us have any experience with this, we don't know exactly how that process will proceed. There will be some back and forth between the manufacturer and CMS. CMS has indicated that they'll have the final price by September 1st. It's certainly premature for us to talk about the price now, because it's not the final price. I don't know that we'll know the final price until very close to the point at which they are prepared to publish that price, having not had any experience here. So, I wouldn't anticipate we will get any updates until that date or very close to that date.