Joseph Zubretsky
Joe Zubretsky
Molina Healthcare, Inc. (MOH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Sure, A.J. With respect to the Medicare MLR question, we have three components of medical costs that ran higher than expectations. One was LTSS hours on the Medicaid side of the MMP business. Second, high-cost drugs. And third, supplemental benefits, vision, dental, cash card, over the counter was a little too richly designed in 2023 to be honest. We pulled back on those benefits in our 2024 product design and bids. We reshaped some of the allowance-based benefits to be more managed, and we're confident that that cost category will come back into line. On LTSS hours on the Medicaid side of the MMP benefit, we know where, we know why, and those corrective actions are in place. And it's not unusual in a soft economy for in-home service hours to increase. So we are very confident in the restoration of our MCRs back to the top end of the range in Medicare to 88% in 2024.
You also asked about the Medicaid MLR. And let me frame it this way, and then I'll turn it to Mark. The re-determination process actually unfolded exactly as we had planned and as we had predicted. The acuity shift was noticeable, but it was -- it wasn't dramatic and it wasn't significant, but it was noticeable. And that began to happen as the redetermination process began. We then said, and it occurred, that the first financial cushion would be the corridors, the payments into the corridors that existed in the latter half of 2023. That acted as a financial buffer. In the meantime, as the acuity shift became noticeable to our state partners, they began to introduce rate adjustments to account for the acuity shift. So going into 2024, the rate actions completely compensated for what we call [poor] (ph) medical trend, completely compensated for any acuity shift, and that's why we're able to print an MCR in Medicaid at the high end of the range at 89%, which includes a little bit of pressure from the new business that we put on the books.
Our strategy in marketplace until we were satisfied that the risk pool was stabilized is to keep it as we say small, silver, and stable. But as the risk pool has stabilized, irrational pricing has pretty much left the market. We will allocate more capital to this business and we'll grow it at a rate that allows us to earn mid to high single-digit margins. That's the key for us. The risk pool can have inherent volatility and we believe that a margin target of 5% to 7% as you suggested is the right target margin and we will grow the business at a rate that allows us to achieve that target margin. We're very competitively positioned this year. We are in our silver product. We were number one and two in 30% of our counties this year as compared to 20% last year. 75% of the book is still silver. 50% of the book is renewal, which gives us good insight to capture appropriate risk scoring. The book is very well positioned to grow. 31% membership growth, 17% revenue growth just this year, and hopefully we'll be able to grow it at this rate in the future, all with the goal of achieving mid to high single-digit margins.
Thanks, Kevin. I'm going to kick it to Mark for detailed commentary on the Medicare MLR, but I think it's really important to frame the Medicare business and its component parts. They're somewhat different and situationally, they are quite different. You have $6 billion of revenue forecasted for 2024 in Medicare. $1.6 billion is Bright newly acquired, subject to the premium deficiency reserve, as you suggested, and Mark will explain that in a minute. $2.4 billion is our legacy business, and $2 billion are the MMP demonstrations, where rates are received from CMS. You're not [bidding] (ph) against the benchmark. So the dynamics in the book of business are quite different. You need to look at the three components in order to develop your view of the various profitability components. But with that as the backdrop and the context, I'll kick it to Mark for detailed commentary and how you build the Medicare MLR, particularly with respect to Bright and the premium deficiency reserves. Mark?
With respect to your second question, if I remember correctly, it had to do with the exchanges and members coming off of the Medicaid roles into the exchanges. If you look at the last couple of years, membership has already always started the year at a higher point and ended the year at a lower point due to the natural attrition in the book. This year, we're starting the year at 320,000 members and plan to grow it to 370,000 by the end of the year. The natural attrition rate is still 2% or 3% inside that number, but we do plan to pick up more members from not only our own Medicaid plans, but competitors' Medicaid plans. I think we're seeing a penetration rate of people coming off Medicaid of about 10% of members lost. Mark, anything to add?
And that's the important point. The important point here, first of all, the first year losses were fully contemplated in the value we paid. So there was no surprise there. The business is running at a 92% MCR and a 14% G&A ratio. We plan to get the 92% down to 88% to 89% and the 14% down to 9% to 10%. So half to two thirds of the turn is G&A related and we have very, very clear line of sight to how to take their cost burden down from 14% to 9% or 10% where it should be. That dollar of accretion is expected to emerge in the third full year of ownership. First year protected by -- mostly protected by a PDR. Second year, breakeven to probably slightly profitable. Full dollar of accretion in the third full year of ownership. Getting the MCR from 92% down to 88% or 89%, getting the 14% G&A ratio down to 9% or 10%.
Sure, sure. And we appreciate your sensitivity to the situation. Yeah, we observe the sanctity of all these bidding processes, including the ITN process, so we can't comment specifically on it. But look, as we -- yet we run a nice business in Florida. It's smaller than it used to be to regions. We used to be statewide back in 2017. It runs really well. We're the only four-star plant in Florida. And the same team that works on all our successful bids, our $12 billion of re-procured revenue and our $7 billion of new contract wins, that is the same team that worked on this. So we go into it with a great deal of confidence and we would hope to expand our footprint in Florida. There's $14 billion of Medicaid revenue in Florida regions where we are not currently represented. But let's see how the process plays out and hopefully something will be announced, awards will be announced sometime later this spring.
As a general framework for how we stay within our long-term range year-over-year, in fact, on the same story basis, almost equivalent, we talk about the redetermination process, which late in 2023 began to put pressure on the MLR until rates caught up with it. As Mark commented in his prepared remarks, we know about Medicaid rates on 80% of our revenue for 2024. That rate increase came in at 4%. So that blends to about 3.2%. We forecasted the other 20% at less than half that. So we have a 3.5% rate increase built into our 2024 guidance. And that was exactly commensurate with trend, trend even as influenced by the modest acuity shift that we and our state customers have observed. So pretty much business as usual. There's nothing, no medical cost category that needed to be accounted for or accommodated. It's actuarially sound rates impacted by acuity adjustments that 20 of 21 of our states included. And it was completely in line with our contemplated medical cost trend, even as influenced by an acuity shift. Mark, anything to add?
David, I'll take the Marketplace question first. We were running really well in the middle of the 2023. Our experience was quite positive. So we consciously, consciously bid to grow the business modestly and moderately, as we suggested we would. And so we priced somewhat below the observed trend, not usually below the observed trend, but slightly below the observed trend, to essentially invest some of the excess margin. We earned nearly 10% pre-tax in that business in 2023. So in a sense, we invested some of the excess margin in growth, hence the 31% membership growth and 17% revenue growth. Mark, on the phasing -- quarterly phasing?
Hi, Sarah. I'll kick it to Mark for we have very detailed analysis of the changes in the risk adjustment rules and what it meant for our book. In answer to your second question, one of the reasons I articulated earlier the configuration of our book of business being somewhat different than what I call mainstream Medicare Advantage is that we have a low income, high acuity population. Our members are using services from the first day of the year to the last day of the year. They're chronic. They have comorbidities and are polychronic. And so the notion of discretionary utilization means far less to our business based on its mix than it might be to a mainstream population where discretionary or the pedic procedures are being done, screenings are taking place, perhaps, and up demand from the pandemic. In our book of highly chronic patients, high acuity members, that's less of a dynamic. And so the three cost categories that I articulated previously, LTSS hours, high cost drugs, GLP-1s, and the supplemental benefits were really the drivers in our book. Mark, do you want to take the risk adjustment question?
I'm not quite sure I've captured the essence of your question, but we are forecasting a 78% MCR for the year, which is at the low end of our long-term target range, which means we'll be operating high single-digit margins, certainly not the 10% pre-tax we achieved in 2023. But look, if you grow the book more aggressively, more of your members are going to be new to the book. And so you have to -- in our view, you have to strike a balance about how fast you're going to grow it and how many new members you want. Every new member that comes in, you need to find risk adjustment. If they come in during SEP, if they're chronic, you better find risk adjustment quickly or they won't get the profitability in the near term. So there's a -- very much a balance between what you get in annual enrollment, what you pick up in SEP, and how one thinks about how fast do I grow the book to achieve mid-single-digit margins when the maturity of the membership and the duration of the membership is pretty important to the stability of the risk pool. You have to balance those two factors.
I'm sorry, we had trouble hearing the last part of your question, George. PDP?
Sure, Scott. I mean, on balance, our view is the same view that you've heard from others, is that the advance notice does not appear to be adequate to compensate for trends that we're all observing. I think in our book, if you take the CMS advance notice and project it to our book, I think we're projecting about a 50 basis point, 0.5 point of rate increase, which we believe is, along with others, is insufficient, and we'll see where the final notice comes out. It usually comes out, as you know, better than that. But our view is not any different from anybody else's.
But I would say that we're not anticipating in any analysis when completed on rates that would move us off of achieving the $1 accretion in the third full year of ownership. We're pretty confident in that trajectory.