Ben Fowke
Ben Fowke
American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript
Well, I think there's areas where we have improvement, but I will turn it over to Peggy and/or Chuck to elaborate on that.
Well, it's definitely an external search. I'll start with that. And I don't want to narrow down to any specific background, but ideally -- and by the way, I think we're going to get a very robust list of candidates. So AEP is a great company with great assets. And I think it's going to be an attractive destination for many, many talented people. So I think it's going to be great to pick from that talent.
Ideally, you get a -- somebody that is a seasoned executive in the utility industry, is well known in the investor community. I think that's extremely important, has great leadership qualities. We've got a lot of talent at AEP, and we want to develop that talent. And ultimately, it would be ideal if they have multi-jurisdictional experience and the ability to achieve regulatory success.
Those are -- that's a big wish list. But again, I think we're going to get a lot of great candidates.
Thank you.
Hey, Jeremy.
Good morning.
Yeah. I really just will probably just rehash what we've said in the press release and in our scripted remarks. I mean the Icahn -- additional board members came after discussions with the Icahn team and the AEP team. We actually welcome their perspective. They share the opinion as we do that AEP shares are undervalued, and we want to work together to unleash shareholder value.
Regarding Julie's departure, I mean, I really can't go into any more details than what we've already said. It was a full board decision after discussions with Julie, and we decided that the best path forward is to transition to a new CEO. We're going to continue to work hard to deliver shareholder value. I think the Icahn board members will give us a fresh perspective as we pursue those goals.
Well, we really like the assets we have, okay? We've completed the strategic reviews, but I mean, the price -- we're going to continue to look for opportunities to do the right thing for our shareholders. But I think we're in a -- an enviable position, that the assets we have can also achieve our strategic goals.
And Chuck mentioned where we are with FFO to debt and those targets. So I think we're in a pretty good position, quite honestly. So again, as I said before, not to be redundant, but I guess it will be. We'll be good portfolio managers, and we'll continue to be open to transactions if the price is right and the ability to execute is viable. But in the meantime, we're going to do the blocking and tackling that in the long term, gets you the result that -- results that you're going to want to see.
You’re welcome.
Well, I mean, I'll kick it over to Chuck in a minute, but the $43 billion on the 5-year capital plan underpins the 6% to 7%. In the years where we might have unfavorable weather or other things like that, that's the resiliency of this AEP management team that I talked about. And it's not just one year. It's a -- look back, I mentioned 14 years of hitting what we said we were going to do.
Yeah, sometimes you get regulatory bumps in the road and other things that might happen. But if you look back historically, and we look forward, we produce. I mean, we're in 11 jurisdictions. We're going to file rate cases. But if you look at history, we generally do pretty well. And when we have a bump in the road, we figure out how to absorb it and what we need to do better going forward.
Chuck, I don't know if you want to add to that?
Yeah. I mean I think, first of all, we'll take our time, and we'll find the absolute best successor permanent successor that we can. I think as part of that process, we obviously will have the strategic discussions. I mean, I think the board is very comfortable with our strategy and our strategic priorities. I suspect that the ultimate permanent successor CEO will also be comfortable with those strategies and perhaps can figure out a better way to execute on them. That would be the goal. But we're not looking at a complete dismantling of our strategic priorities.
You’re welcome, Nick.
Well, I mean -- and I'll let Chuck -- this is Ben. I'll let Chuck augment what I'm going to say, which is pretty much what I said before. Transmission is a great asset. And we are, obviously, the largest transmission provider in the United States, and we like that position. We will be open to things that make sense that would do even better for shareholders. But we don't feel compelled we have to do anything. So I think that puts us in a better position as we move forward.
Chuck, I don't know if you want to add to that.
Good morning.
Well, I'm going to turn it over to Peggy, who is the point on that. But this -- it isn't like this is something we're just initiating. This is something that I've heard discussed as a board member at the board level. It's something I'm going to get very much involved in with Peggy. We've got a good team, but we're going to have to -- we'll make sure that we do what we need to do to get better outcomes in the future.
And I mean, there's a lot of blocking and tackling, that really behind the scene stuff that goes into the actual processing, executing and planning of a rate case. And it gets really down in the weeds pretty quickly, but those things add up. Peggy, I'll turn it over to you.
The biggest opportunity so far have been in Ohio and Texas. And in our forecast, for our 5-year plan, we have included the capital needed to serve those customers. If there is incremental growth beyond that, it would be an opportunity that we'd have to evaluate and figure out how we would smartly finance it. And meet the generation needs that come with it. Yeah.
Well, I mean, you're right. There's like -- I think there's 5.3 million shares that -- something like that that Icahn holds. And we had discussions with Icahn. And we settled on the two incremental board seats and advisory position.
I think back to Julie, I'll just repeat what I said. This was a full board decision after discussions with Julie and the board, and we determined it was best for AEP to transition to a new CEO. So you can read what you want into that, but I think I'm just going to just keep it as it is. It's a full board decision, and you need the full board to make a decision to remove the CEO.
Good morning.
I'm going to turn it over to Peggy and Chuck in a minute, Sophie. But I mean, we're always going to look to put capital where we can get the best returns. There's baseline capital that you need to do to make sure that you never compromise resiliency, reliability or safety. So we -- but apart from that, I think it gets back to what I said. It's listening to what those local jurisdictions really want and need. And that can also shape your capital needs because, quite frankly, it can shape your regulatory outcomes. So I'll turn it over to the team if they have anything to add to that.
Thank you.
Yeah, I think so. It's -- the strategy is great. We just have to execute, and that's what we're keenly focused on, Paul.
Yeah. I mean I think -- I mean I'm going to turn it over to the team, Paul, but the amount of load growth that we see in our jurisdictions, I mean that's a great opportunity, economic development that we can be a big part of, either helping to drive it or certainly providing the infrastructure to allow it. Those are great opportunities. And that's -- everybody wants that in all jurisdictions. But again, we're going to be -- very carefully listen to what our jurisdictions want and need and respond accordingly. Peggy or Chuck?
Thank you. Thank you, Paul. I appreciate that.