Barbara Rentler
Ross Stores, Inc. (ROST) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Lorraine, so let's just talk about the sharply priced brands. Obviously, I wouldn't talk about what type of penetration we're going to shift to. What I would say to you about the sharply priced brands is that during '23, we strengthened our value offerings. We kept saying that we were doing that and we were doing that.

And that really results in the acceleration of sales and started in Q2 and then persisted through the whole holiday season. And so that's really how we came up with in 2024 that we plan to build upon those successes that we had in '23 by offering more brands that are sharply priced to deliver that value proposition the customer wants. But what I would say to you also is it's a tiered strategy, a good, better, best strategy.

So in terms of gross margin expansion from the pure merchandising side, what I would say to you is this strategy really we really believe that this will drive sales, and it will drive market share. And that's really how we're looking at it because that's what the customers voted on all year, and we feel like a strategy that's broad based in the entire box. Certainly, there are some businesses that have more opportunity than others. But that's really how we came to this conclusion and the customer has been voting and that's really what she's been voting on.

Matthew, in terms of the drivers, the categories, the ones that I said, cosmetics, home and children's were really the best. Accessories were slightly above the chain and apparel trailed the chain, but again it performed above our plan. And I think part of the things that really drove it was we had a big push this year in home on gifting and we added some new classifications and the customer responded.

I think it's a positive buying environment. I mean there's still merchandise in the market. And as I've said this on calls before, there are some vendors that are very aggressive in bringing in inventory as they're trying to gain market share and then others, it's more normalized. In terms of merchant margin, our strategy now is really to continue to offer the customer really great value because that is really, really what's working sharp prices.

And so even if you're buying some of these really great opportunities, we are really thinking about passing along really that potential savings to the customer because we really do believe that is the best way to drive market to gain market share. And so that's really how we're approaching at this point, and that is the customer is responding to.

Sure. In terms of categories for '24, I mean, with the brand strategy we're putting in place, I feel like there's it's pretty broad based the opportunity. But obviously, our apparel business has been trailing the chain. And so we're focused on really trying to improve those assortments and to get the apparel business more in line with the other businesses.

Sure. So from the merchandise strategy, we do expect it to accelerate as we go. Obviously, we've been building the strategy off of starting in Q2 of 2023. And now it's I would say now it's more broad based than we were as we were coming across maybe the word I want to use is it's a little more intentional in certain businesses than it was before. And so we do expect that as we come across, we are expecting that our apparel business as we move through the year will improve.

And in terms of priorities, our priority this year is really to gain market share through a diligent execution of the strategy. We've done a lot of work around what we believe we need to do to gain market share. And so on the Ross side, that really is mine and our key priority. And then on the dd’s side, to go off and to do some additional work to understand that customer. So as we go into newer markets, we satisfy her needs.

The AUR fluctuates. It's based on the mix and the value of the goods that we're buying. So there's not a specific AUR pricing strategy. It's really a value strategy as we buy goods and put them out at the sharpest prices we can to offer great value. So it's not like we're trying to hit a specific AUR or it could move as we go through the year and as we go through different closeouts products and all of that. We're expecting it to move around.

Whenever you're pricing goods, Marni, you're always doing what you're saying. You're looking at the product and you're looking at the value, right? So it doesn't necessarily always have to do with what you're paying for a product, right? The merchants are looking at it and saying this is the right value and they're doing it.

I think the sharp pricing that we're talking about is really adding more brands at all three levels, good, better, best, assessing those brands and then putting them out at the values that the customers really responded to. So it's really built on the products themselves. I don't know what else to say that to. We have the brands we want to have. We have business people we're growing.

We've opened a lot of new resources this year. The merchants have been out really looking for new resources, looking to expand, looking to remix the products and labels themselves and then to put that mix out at sharp prices. So it's not like I'm looking to have X price point or X in each thing. It's really it is really a value strategy, not a pricing strategy, it's a value strategy.

Well, beauty has so many components in there from a margin perspective. Overall, the beauty margins are fine or good. Every business we went in and looked at what our values were, what our brands were, what our product offerings were, and we went in and said some businesses we thought were on track and we're fine.

In some businesses, we're learning we have more opportunity after what we've learned starting in Q2 all the way through Q3 and Q4 and building on that. So it's kind of an evolving process, but there is again, it's really a merchant driven process and making sure that we put out the best possible values in the things that the customer wants and that we have the right brands, the right recognizable brands at each level, good, better and best.

And in terms of the size of the merchant team, we have over 900 merchants. So every year we promote people, move people. But in terms of saying, am I going out to take up the headcount substantially? I think it's just, I think it's more of a normal cadence that we would have. We feel like we have a pretty large team between the two companies.

Kristina, I'm not 100% sure what exactly what you're getting at exactly. Could you just say that again?

So the first part in inventory, as Michael just said, we plan our inventory based off of sales and churn. And so and we build that by business really bottom up just in terms of pure inventory level. And then we drive receipts. We have the inventory base we think we need and then we go to chase and we drive the receipts which drives the sales, which drives the profit. That's from basic inventory.

In terms of which categories, that's a merchant driven strategy in terms of what businesses we want to go after, where we see the opportunity in the outside world, where we know we can show great value and where we can add assortment. So they're kind of two different levels of thinking. And remember, it's a flexible business model. So if business really takes off and as we've started to beat our sales plans, we have the ability to take the inventory up or drive the inventory down because the model is flexible, the stores are flexible, and the products are flexible. So we go we start in with our base plan and then, again, built up for sales turn. And then and then we go then we react to what the customer is telling us. So it's kind of fluid.

I just think, look, I just think there is market share to be had. I mean more stores keep closing, I mean, and there's just less places for consumers to shop and our job is to satisfy the customer. And if we do that, there are consumers out there for us to pick up and to expand. So we want to be able to satisfy our current customers and get her to come back more. We want to be able to add additional customers because as we know, as there have been many store closures over the last few years, that's also helped to fuel our price. So as that continues, this is a focus for us.

Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in Ross Stores.
