Corie Barry
Best Buy Co., Inc. (BBY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So, the purpose of the changes we're making is, first and foremost, to meet a changing customer. And that's why my -- I led even in my remarks around the measurement of our customer experiences and how across the board in Q4, we have actually continued to see improvement in MPS and the measurement of those experiences.

The primary goal, of course, is to create customer experiences that people love. And when they want to come to the store to meet their needs in the moment, sometimes, and this is part of what's changed. Sometimes that is I want very rapid fulfilment of my product. I want to pick up in store and have the confidence of grabbing that product.

Sometimes that is, "I want a deeper, more immersive experience." And what we're learning our way through it is part of why we've done piloting and testing, and we're taking a long time to make changes, or what sometimes we get feedback seems like a long time to make changes is because we want to give this enough room to breathe, to make sure we feel like we're not eroding the customer experience. It's why we are investing more in our frontline associates, who are the ones who are right there meeting the customer in the moment.

And so, our priority is not just the cost side. Our priority is actually what does the experience of the future need to look like so that we meet the customer expectations, and we hold ourselves very accountable to the measurement of those experiences.

On the membership side, and we talked about it a little bit in the prepared remarks, what we're trying to figure out is the balance between acquisition of members, but also retention of members. And what are those experiences, again, that really keep customers sticky? I mean the whole point of a great membership program is that you remain relevant to your customer base.

And now -- I mean it's only been a year. And again, we have relatively low frequency with our customers. And so, we're just getting data around what is it that keeps someone frequently enacting with Best Buy. And so, it's changes to Totaltech, but I think you heard us also mention in there, we see the opportunity potentially for another tier that might be a little bit more value-oriented, might be a little bit more convenience-oriented, but might have broader appeal.

And so I think what we're trying to do is, that's why we also brought my Best Buy into the conversation, we're looking across the entire gamut of what we think we can provide our customers and see the opportunity for a tiered approach all the way from free, you get free shipping, which is really resonating, all the way up to a very comprehensive membership program like Totaltech, where you get everything around support.

So, the goal here, Mike, at the end of the day is to deliver the best possible customer experiences that are important in a new world where a customer is shopping differently.

On the membership side, let me make sure I clarify the numbers. We have about 100 million My Best Buy members, of which 40 million to 45 million are active. On the Totaltech side, we currently have 5.8 million members. That's compared to 4.6 million we had last year. So those are kind of the two pools of membership that we're talking about. And we haven't given the percent of sales of those members, but you can imagine, it's a fairly high percent of sales between those two membership pools.

I think we see a lot of opportunity to continue to engage with those members. As you can imagine, with a My Best Buy program that large, we know a lot about those customers. And we are able to tailor to those customers. We know even more about our Totaltech members, of course.

And I think we see a future where we're able to tailor more direct opportunities, sales opportunities with them. We also can see potentially that if we look at a tiered approach, there's a whole another tranche of customers who might be interested in doing more with us and having a longer relationship with us.

And now as we're heading during the second year of Totaltech, we're learning a lot. We think we're going to drive more engagement a more personalized approach. We're working on our onboarding process for new members so they really understand what's available to them.

And we're leveraging some of our existing vehicles so that people understand everything that we do from consultations, all the way through services, all the way through trade-in and some of the other offers. And then, of course, this speeds into some of our Best Buy Ads model, where we can tailor our advertising to specific audiences based on what we know about them.

So, this pool of customers is really vital to us, and I think we are continuing to improve the way we engage with them, and also drive their engagement back with us.

We haven't given renewals, and we're not going to. And as you can imagine -- I mean they've been relatively in line with our expectations. You can imagine, there are some places where we see much better engagement and renewals and people who engage in things like support or who value the warranty side of Totaltech as an example, there are very, very interested in renewing.

And so, I think that's -- when we talk about tailoring the program for the future, we're looking for those customers who find value in some of the big more unique aspects of the program and stick with the program because they see the value in that.

Yes. I think you started with what makes the conversation a little bit difficult, which is the incredibly varied indicators there are out there with the consumer right now, right? Everything from historically strong job markets, spending continues specifically on services even more so than goods. Inflation might be slowing, but it still is sustainably high.

And it's high in some of the basics like food, fuel and lodging, right? And when the basics are where that sustainable inflation is, it does mean the customer is going to make trade-off decisions. And I think we've used the same language now for probably three quarters. You've got an uneven and unsettled consumer who, from a confidence perspective looking forward, is still not confident about the future.

And so, I think what we are trying to position ourselves for is the best possible value for that consumer when they're ready in the moment. And I feel like in Q4, I think we've played that very well. Our pricing was very competitive. Our price perception was very competitive.

And so, you can see in spot as there is a better deal to be had, you can see the consumer reacting. But no matter what, it's against this overlay of a consumer who's going to make trade-off decisions based on their own budget and their own life.

Yes. This is an interesting space for us because obviously, our vendor partners they want to succeed as well. And so, when we think about things like promotionality, the question we got earlier around elasticity, these are great partnership discussions that we can have with our vendors as we think about how best to stimulate the market.

And I said it a couple of times, but it bears repeating, our vendors are highly incanted to continue to innovate on their products and to create the new products for the future. I mean, obviously, no one's going to sit on their laurels and wait for the customers to come back. People are constantly trying to innovate in a way that will drive demand.

And we are really the best place to highlight particularly that new innovation. And so, the vendor partnerships have continued to evolve over time with that as the backdrop.

I think we often talk about the physical experiences with our vendors, and that remains important. Our partners continue to invest in our existing stores. And I think you can see some really beautiful vendor experiences in the 35,000 square foot remodel that we're doing as well as even some of the smaller stores that we're testing, where you have just a different take on vendor experience.

So there still is this real investment and interest in how a vendor shows up in a physical experience. But on top of that, there are so many new spaces where we're developing some different and unique partnerships. We have developed some interesting partnerships around our membership offerings.

We have developed really interesting partnerships with Best Buy Ads and how they think about the access to the hundreds of millions of customers that we have that we know very well, and they can target very directly. We have deep services partnerships in many cases, we're an Apple authorized repair facility, and we're building out that services infrastructure with other partners.

And then to your point, we're starting to see some real opportunity in supply chain and fulfillment. We have a program that's called Partners. We currently have six partners on it. Samsung is one of those where you can actually order online at Samsung and have it fulfilled in our stores.

And I think there are so many spaces, especially in an industry where like we said 40% of what we sell online is picked up in store. So, there is this like intricate want and need on our customer base to physically have access to that product, and we can partner pretty uniquely with some of our vendors to help provide that experience for them. And we can see a lot of opportunity for that into our future.

Well, we're not going to give the precise numbers, but directionally how you're thinking about it is essentially what we're seeing. And I just want to make sure I underscore one more time on the ASP side of things structurally versus calendar 2019 or fiscal 2020, you've really got two big things happening.

And that is the mix and the category mix is quite different. Larger percent of our revenue now coming from appliances and large TVs. And also, second, within our categories, the mix in the premium products has increased. And I think those two actually reflect some of the strengths of our model, our ability to really tailor those more premium experiences, our ability to deliver and install that large cube.

I think it's -- sometimes it gets a little lost in some of the other inflation conversation. That's not what's happening here. What's happening here is, structurally, we're making what I think are some really positive changes within the business model.

Yes. So, what's been interesting here, and we said it in the prepared remarks, I mean our average hourly wage is up 25% versus 2019. We were one of the first to move our wages up in August of 2020 to $15 minimum almost three years ago. And so, we've been making continuous investments in our workforce over the last three years.

And what we're seeing, and we watch it incredibly closely, our turnover rates are really low compared to industry averages, and they're generally very similar year-over-year. And we -- I mean, we've talked about it before. We might not be exactly a pre-pandemic, but we're still in the like mid-30% turnover range overall.

And so that is exactly what we watch to make sure we're trying to strike the right balance here. We are continuing to invest -- and it's not just wages, it's also hundreds of millions of dollars in benefits over the last three-year period as well. And of course, we're going to keep monitoring that on a market level basis, but we remain laser-focused on making sure that as we adjust the operating model, we are reinvesting into those employees that we have.

And I think, for some of the key roles like our general managers, our turnover is in the mid-single digits, and we tapped before about some of the tenure that we see in our peak slot agents or within some of our consultants. So, we are very carefully monitoring constantly both the balance of pay and benefits and, frankly, some of the work-life balance and flexibility that our employees are demanding, and we continue to see it reflected, I would argue, in industry-leading turnover numbers.

It just looks fascinating. So two things, one, the model is always evolving, and there are always new and interesting and different ways to take cost out. I would use -- one of the things that we've been talking more about lately is outlets. That is a unique and differentiated customer experience.

And we're pulling different customers in who are finding great value and we see a recovery rate. We've said this before, that's 2 times what we would see if we were selling sideways or selling it outside our own channel. Cost reduction is not always about expense reduction. It is often about finding flaws in the experience and then making opportunity kind of out of those flows.

Many of our cost reduction efforts actually have ended up and, I would argue, in better employee experiences. If you take some of the TV damage work that we've done over time, nobody wants to bring home a damaged TV, and there's a huge amount of cost in that for us.

And so, I think what we are trying to do is continuously assess our model. And then given some of the advancements we're seeing, there continues to be opportunity. We see opportunity ahead in how we run our call centers as an example. And that's a space where we've been able to pull cost out and have better customer NPS and experiences.

So, this isn't I think sometimes it's a zero-sum kind of game that people play in their heads with cost reduction. But I think what the team is doing is really creatively finding kind of flaws in our system. And because it's always evolving, there's always something that we're learning from and evolving. So, I'm really proud of the work that the team has done, and I think we continue to have opportunity.

And with that, yes, you bet. I'd love to thank you all so much for joining us today. We look forward to updating you on our results and progress during our next call in May. Thank you, and have a great day.