Gail Boudreaux 
Elevance Health, Inc CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Well, thanks for the question, A.J. There's a lot in there. And as you know, 2025, it's a little early to opine on 2025, but I'd like to give you at least a little bit of color on how we're thinking about some of the things that you mentioned.

Let me start first with Star ratings. So because as we shared on the last we are intensely working. Medicare Advantage is a very important business for us, and we're strategically committed to the long-term. And I will reiterate this year, we felt we took very prudent actions for a long-term sustainable business and feel good about our bid. So that positions us well for 2025 in particular.

In terms of the Star ratings, again, a few things going on there. We shared on our last call that on the group business, we have a number of levers at our disposal that we are able to pull, and we're still moving forward with that. And then in terms of overall Star ratings, we do think that, that's going to be a multiyear initiative.

But I wanted to share, as I shared on my early remarks that we have invested at the last part of the year, and we were investing actually prior to even the announcement, we have been successful at moving all of our business into our Health Advocate model, and we do know that we're seeing some early signs. We don't know where the points are going to come out, but we do feel good about the investments we're making. And again, we feel really good about where our bids have come out.

Broader, let me take a little bit step further back because I think your question around 2025 is broader than just Medicare Advantage and Stars. As I think about 2025 again, not giving guidance on 2025, but we do expect to accelerate growth in 2025 and we've talked quite a bit in recent calls about our flywheel for growth, which is in our improvement in both the health benefits business and our Carelon segment.

We anticipate that our health benefits business is going to continue to grow in 2025 after a reset year in 2024. We should see an accelerated impact to that growth, which will drive revenue for Carelon. And then Carelon also has been independently scaling its multiple new capabilities, and we'll share, I assume even more of those on the call today.
And then finally, as you know, we took some actions at the end of last year around our disciplined operating cost efficiencies, and we expect to see even greater benefits from those as we digitize and use AI in our investments.

So honestly, I think we feel that we've positioned our business very prudently and that the balance and resilience of our enterprise and our earnings power of our health benefits in Carelon together gives us a lot of confidence in our ability to achieve our long-term targets. So just a little bit more color on where we are. Thank you very much for the question. Next question please.

Thank you, Mark, and thanks, Kevin, for the question. Next, question please.


Well, thanks, Josh, very much for the question. And just maybe a couple of overarching comments because I think it's important that I'm going ask Felicia Norwood who leads our government business to comment more specifically. And I think it's important to frame that we made some very specific discipline decisions and feel really good about our bids entering into this. And Felicia, we actually exited some markets very specifically that were underperforming. So I think you have to take that into account. But she'll just provide a lot more detail on kind of where we landed this year and the perspective on the market. So Felicia, please.

Thank you. Next question please?

Thank you, Sarah. I'm going to ask Pete Haytaian, who leads Carelon to comment on that. And as you know, we're excited about the real flywheel opportunity that we're seeing in Carelon. So, Pete?

Thank you. Next question please?

Well, thanks for the question, Lance. It's quite a bit there. But I think let me start with our value-based strategy, we've talked about on this call a number of times, and I think I would say it's remained really consistent, but we're making a lot of very good progress on that. Overall, more than 60% are in value-based care. And in Medicare, it's even more. Specific to your question on renegotiation.

We have multiple-year arrangements with our value-based providers, and we're always looking at a couple of things. One, quite frankly, to make sure that it's a win-win and we're aligned, both on cost quality outcomes and Stars. So, we spend a lot of time focusing on some of the ways that, we can get data back and forth more simply. We use our - we've integrated the way we share data back and forth.

And that's really around closing gaps in care and quite frankly, simplifying the process under which we work with those providers. Our goal is to make that ubiquitous across all of our value-based providers. And so, we made a lot of progress there, and dramatically improve sort of the time, to action with those providers. And I think that's important because, honestly, that gives them data to act and that improves their outcomes.

We have seen our value-based providers perform better in the circumstance, and we think that, that's going to remain important. In terms of our strategy around ownership. We've talked about that. We - as you know, we do have assets inside of Carelon. I guess where I would focus you more is around the specialty high-cost complex areas of specialty, because that's where we think that there's a huge differentiated focus between our technology, our clinical domain expertise and our ability to drive trend.
Again, we don't need to own the providers, but we do need to have a significant role in the enablement of those care providers, and we have spent time doing that. We launched a number of new products this year with oncology, serious mental illness, and we're getting into other areas like musculoskeletal, renal and more. And I think - that's where you see the significant spend area is accelerating and Carelon with its assets has a great opportunity.

So, we expect Carelon's care provider enablement platforms continue - to contribute pretty significantly Carelon's revenue meaningfully over the longer-term, and we're building those assets. And again, I'll keep going back to my flywheel, where we think that will improve the performance of our health benefit plans. There's a lot of interest in externally in these. And Pete mentioned, we saw some nice traction in a few of these offerings this year.
So overall, I'd say very consistent focus around our value-based care - care enablement, and we feel like we're getting a lot of traction. And I would focus you a lot on the specialized care Specialty Care, particularly on the Carelon growth opportunity. So, thank you very much for the question. Next question, please?

Thank you for the question. I'm going to ask Mark to address your first question, and then I'll come back and share our long-term views on Medicare.


Thank you, Mark. Nathan, in terms of your broader question, let me just provide a little bit of perspective. As I think about the market, we still think Medicare Advantage is a very good long-term market. And as I said, we're committed to driving sustainable performance for the long term. Medicare Advantage delivers really strong differentiated value for seniors. I think you have to start there.

And as you look at the aligned incentives across the system to deliver better outcomes and better care - it is very - it's a very strong marketplace, and it continues to grow. And importantly, it's incredibly popular with seniors with greater than 50% of seniors selecting Medicare Advantage today. So that's - against that backdrop, we know seniors value stability in their benefits year-over-year, and the items that are most important to them.

And so, we have, as you heard from us earlier, look to make sure that we are in this market for the long-term, balancing that stability. So with what we know is happening in this market, we can make the right benefit decisions and again, feel that we positioned ourselves, and are making the right strategic investments, to improve our performance. We see this business maturing, as Mark shared in his comments as well.

And again, been very intentional about our desire, or decision to exit certain programs or markets and plans where we didn't think, we had a long-term sustainable path to performance. And that combined with the risk models, made that choice and then again, reposition Puerto Rico, which we believe is still a very good market, but there were some actions that we knew, we had to take.

So as we look at those decisions for the long-term, as Felicia shared, our business performed when you look at the mainland and take out those exits. We had very strong selling season. Again, I think that's a testament to the value of the benefits and our position.
And importantly, we do believe we can grow this business profitably even in a year with hypercompetitive markets in certain cases where we outperformed the growth in our Blue markets, which, again, has always been a strategy we've had, is to go deeper in our Blue markets and to gain more share with the value of our brand as well as in other places.

So again, we think it's a good market. We know we have some work to do in that market, but we feel we're positioning for the long-term and think that we can add distinctive value for seniors as part of our focus on whole health and continuation of coverage to stay Blue for life and all of their coverage. So, thank you very much for the question. Next question please?


Well, thanks for the question, Scott. I think we've got about four or five in there. So, we'll try to hit the high points of your question. Let me ask Morgan and then Mark to comment on your question. Morgan?

Yes. And thanks, Scott. And I think you also asked about the acuity in the individual exchange marketplace. So I wanted to just put a fine point on that. Our risk profile of the members we're picking up certainly in 2023, obviously, early in 2024 very much aligns with the expectation of what we've historically had. So, we feel it's actually rolling out, to our expectations. Thank you for the question. Next question, please?

Yes. And just to sort of put a finer point on it, we do remain confident in our long-term guidance that we gave in mid to upper single-digit operating margin. So as Pete said, we think the business we're bringing on, is really good. We're committed to bringing in more risk business. But in the early years, that does have a little bit lower profile. But overall, we feel very good about the long-term. Next question, please?

Thank you. And just again, to put a fine point, most of the loss in risk membership, is driven by both the Medicaid redeterminations and the adjustment in the footprint that we've shared with you in the past. So, that really is the key driver. Next question please?

Thank you, Pete. Our next question will be our last question.

Thank you, Mark, and thank you to everyone who joined us. In closing, we're pleased to have delivered another strong year in 2023, and we're confident that the ongoing execution of our strategy and the balance and resilience of our diverse set of businesses positions us well for 2024 and beyond.
We're very excited about our future, and we look forward to sharing more on our progress with you in the coming year. Thank you again for your interest in Elevance Health, and have a great rest of your week.































