Jennifer Rumsey
Cummins Inc. (CMI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, thanks for that question, Jerry. So as you've seen from us in the past, as we launch product with new emissions regulations, typically we see a content increase, of course, and then also look at creating value for our customers and have an opportunity to price accordingly with them. So we are looking to continue to do that as we launch new products, in particular, these fuel agnostic engine platforms.

Of course, we also typically see a bump up in our warranty costs because we are beginning to accrue in at a high rate until we've demonstrated capability of that platform. So that's the other factor to watch as we launch those products, but what you see us doing right now is really focusing on improving operating performance of the business, as well as investing in the key platforms for the future that we believe will bring value to our customers and position the company for profitable growth.

And I'll just give a little color. This has been an unusual cycle, I think, in the '21, '22 timeframe and supply constraints that prevented the industry from fully meeting customer demand and that has improved over the course of 2023. We saw the markets peak really in the second quarter and saw some slight drop off in the second half, but to the high end of our guide, it was not as much as we had forecast going into Q1.

Backlogs look strong, in particular, feeling quite good about the medium duty market and continuing to watch what happens. We are still predicting a shallow cycle and further softening as we go into the second half of the year. So that, just some color behind those numbers is how I would describe that.

Yeah, David, thanks. Thanks for the question. And first, I'll say, I think you said decade long energy transition, I would just put an S on that decades long, right? It's going to take time. The reality is, if you look across our different markets and regions, it's going to take time for that transition to occur. We are in a period, though, of really peak investment in the engine business.

As we invest in these fuel agnostic engine platforms, we've got a major investment in R&D and capital to do that. And we think that those engines are going to really position us well with high efficiency diesel products as customers have and continue to decide not to invest in their own platforms and to use Cummins and then also the fuel flexibility that will help customers as they begin to transition, whether its natural gas or hydrogen-based engine solutions.

And so the next few years until we launch those platforms in the '26, '27 timeframe, we're seeing higher levels of R&D in those products and then, of course, we're also in a period where we've got somewhat lower revenue and higher investments in the accelerator business and we are pacing that investment based on how we see the market moving. We're looking at opportunities to share investments while having a leading solution, like you saw us do with the battery cell joint venture.

As revenues grow, we improve parts of those businesses and electrified components. We've now delivered 1500 buses with Bluebird and ramping up the electrolyzer that will help improve margin performance of the business there. And then the last thing I'd say is, as Cummins has done, and we will continue to do, we're looking at how do we improve different parts of our business and so following the acquisition of the North America distribution business, we had a focused investment on improving margin there and you see that playing out in the distribution business performance and I talked about the focus last year that started in our power systems business.

You see that playing out there, the Meritor integration, and we're continuing to look at places that we can improve operating performance of our business and then watch market demands and cost and so the voluntary reduction actions that we took last year help us as we see some reduction in revenue this year. So all those things come together to allow us to continue to improve our returns to investors while making sure we're investing in key products and technologies for the future.

Yeah, great. So, obviously, there's some lead that we have in supplying engines into truck build. So our engine build rates will slightly lead truck build rates, but as I said earlier, from a guide perspective, we think where we were running as we ended the year is going to hold pretty steady through the first part of the year and then we're forecasting some softening toward the end of second quarter and into the second half of the year.

And then the last dynamic is in pickup, we've got the product changeover that'll drive Q4 volumes lower and pickup.

Yeah, so we are in a period of still pretty heavy investment in Accelera businesses are really making both R&D and manufacturing investments to scale up the product and we're fortunate we have, existing plant and data that we can invest within to do that, to begin to produce electrolyzers and we continue to see growing demand and backlog is, as I noted, at a record level for electrolyzers. So that production rate is going to begin to grow and then you'll see margin performance in the electrolyzer portion of the business improving as the revenues grow and we deliver that backlog out into the market.

Same thing in our electrified components business as we see revenue growth there. You'll see margin performance improving. One thing we have now included in our 2024 investment, of course, is beginning to invest in the battery cell joint venture and we believe that, that is a key investment that we're making together to ensure we have a leading cell for commercial vehicles here in the U.S. and domestic supply, which will both allow us and our customers to take advantage of incentives that are available and ensure security of supply over time into this market.

Yeah, the data center market is an exciting growth market, has been for several years a trend with increasing cloud, data storage in the cloud and now with artificial intelligence and other investments. We continue to see very strong demand. We guided up 10% to 15%. Backlog for that market is very, very strong. We're looking at our capacity to make sure that we can meet the market demand and feeling good about the product offering that we have and of course, that business and the focus on improving underlying performance of that business will help us as that market grows.

I don't. Yeah, I think it will continue.

Yeah, I will just say we expect that that trend of data center market growth will continue and we are and we'll continue to look at our capacity and how we position to meet that demand.

Yeah. There were certainly the OEMs experienced a number of supply chain constraints and continued in '23 and even into the early part of this year, frame rails in particular. So we are, as you as you saw, really expect the medium duty market to continue to hold pretty flat to where it is now. It's quite strong. We, of course, have a strong position in that market and we're seeing continued demand and pent-up demand from some of the customers in that market for our product. So less often in there than heavy duty.

Yeah, as you said, we did a kind of a low and a high scenario for adoption at our last Analyst Day and you can expect that we're going to refresh our view of that as we go into the Analyst Day in May. What I would say is that, there are regulations and incentives that are helping to start to drive that adoption, maybe more towards the lower end of those scenarios is what we would think and we are continuing to look at pacing of investment to make sure that we're managing that in line with how we see adoption actually occurring.

Yeah, we're still within, it would still fall within the range that we gave in the Analyst Day, consistent with those range of scenarios that we suggested and recall that, a large portion of that revenue in 2030 for Accelera is in the growth of the electrolyzer business as well.

Chris and I will answer the rest of the questions.

