Karla Lewis
Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co. (RS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi Katja, thanks for being on the call this morning. So it is our intent to continue to drive our gross profit margin higher as we’re continuing to invest in more and more advanced processing equipment, doing more for our customers, we’re able to drive our gross profit margin higher. We also benefit from being on the LIFO inventory costing method with being able to hold our margin more sustainable. But it certainly is our intent. And I think if you look back over the past eight years to 10 years, you will see our sustainable gross profit margin at a steady improvement.

We continue to see a lot of opportunity with our customers to do more with them for them, which is why we’re continuing to invest in CapEx. And so it is our intent to drive that higher, but I know all of you ask us to try to quantify when and how much, but we can’t do that, but we do want to continue to move higher in that.

Arthur, do you want to add anything?

When the time comes, Katja, we’ll let you know.

Thanks, Katja.

Good morning, Phil.

Yes. So our – our current 2024 approved CapEx budget is $425 million. So those are projects will initiate this year. Because of lead times, we probably won’t have all of that completed. But we do have carryover from prior years. So from a cash spend, we’re estimating about $500 million going out the door for prior and current year projects. A lot of that – most of that is growth-related, as it has been the last several years. As I just mentioned with Katja, we continue to find more ways to provide value to our customers, go into new greenfields in new geographic areas, broaden our products and processing capabilities. So, we see a lot of opportunity to continue to do that. And then on our share repurchase, we’ve got $1.4 billion, Arthur?

Yes. Well, Phil, one of our criteria for acquisitions are that they’re immediately accretive. So Reliance’s strategy on acquisitions hasn’t changed that we buy good, well-run, profitable businesses. So we expect them – and hopefully, they’re listening. We expect them to be immediately accretive based on their past results. We have no reason to think that, that would not be the case. We’re excited about welcoming them to the family.

Yes, primarily carbon. And just a reminder, Cooksey, we did already close February 1, so they come into our numbers – they’re in our numbers now. American Alloy has to go through regulatory approval. So that is not yet closed. And at the time that we are able to close that, we’ll make an announcement and then their numbers would begin rolling in then.

Thanks, Phil.

Hey, Martin.

Yes. I would say it was more buying patterns of some of our customers. And I just want to make sure we’re not implying weakness. We still see healthy demand in Q1 2024.

I mean, that’s certainly our intent and what we’re pushing for. We’ve been making investments to continue to grow organically. And our teams out in the field did a great job in 2023. We outperformed the MSCI shipment levels. That was strategic. It was because of investments we’ve made because of our companies going after smart profitable business that’s out there, and they were very successful in doing that. We think underlying demand at this time, we are positive.

We think there are a lot of good tailwinds coming through the infrastructure, the chip, the reshoring and nearshoring, that is all still out there. So we only give guidance a quarter out, but we are positive about the opportunities that are out there that we expect to see in 2024, but we’ve also been in this business long enough that we know there are certain things we can’t control, but we’re excited and we’re positive at this time.

Yes. I mean, we’ve disclosed their sales numbers, Martin, but nothing beyond that, nothing on volumes at this time. And it won’t be – overall, we’re – they are important businesses, important additions to the family, and we’re excited about that. But it’s not going to materially move our tons.

Yes. I mean, we don’t – we do not typically talk about individual companies unless it’s a very material transaction. But we – I will say that they are good performing profitable businesses. But we do – we’re excited that there – we do see some opportunities to help expand their gross profit margins from where they are currently. Some of the expertise we have throughout the Reliance family and value-added processing, we think we can bring to the companies and really help them work on that and pricing discipline. So, we think there’s upside to their already solid profitability levels, but we’re not going to give specific numbers.

Yes. So Martin, we look at share repurchases like all of our – all of our capital allocation buckets where we try to opportunistically be active in each of those buckets. And we don’t have any one holding back another one. The fact that we have announced a couple of acquisitions doesn’t change. We’ve got the – we’re in a financial position where that doesn’t impact our ability to repurchase shares or how we view that. So we expect to continue to be active when we think it’s the right timing in the market, which is consistent with Q3, Q4, a lot depends on how the stock trades during that period.

Yes. Martin, because as I just mentioned, we try to be opportunistic in all of our capital allocation buckets, whether it’s acquisitions, organic growth, dividends, share repurchases. We don’t set formal policies because we are selling into cyclical markets. So we want to have the flexibility to allow us to do what we think is the best use of capital at the time. So we don’t have any formal policies established for that, other than trying to be a good capital allocator and reward our stockholders and grow our company.

Okay. Thanks, Martin.

Yes. Hi, Phil. So we service the automotive market predominantly through toll processing, where we do not take ownership of the metal, which we like servicing that market that way, taking out any metal price risk for us. And we’re processing and inspecting, delivering, storing the metal. Typically, our customers in that business are the mills selling to the automakers. And our companies that do that are very good at what they do. They’ve done a great job servicing the markets, also shifting to be able to process aluminum as there’s more and more aluminum content. We’ve been continuing to invest in those companies.

And last year, our processing volumes in our toll processing businesses, which are about 65% automotive-related were up 7.5%. And so it was a good year for us, again, partly because of our investments for growth, but also because even though there were a few stoppages and it was a little erratic for certain periods during the strikes, it didn’t hit us on a broad basis. It was typically one customer, one platform that would be down.

So it wasn’t too broad-based for us. A lot of our customers were anticipating the strike coming. And so we worked with them to try to build up a little more inventory for them prior to that, and it came back pretty quickly when the strike ended. So, we didn’t see a big impact from that, and we continue to be busy. We’re continuing to invest to increase capacity there, and we’re positive on automotive going forward.

Yes. So, I think for the year 2024, we would look for some growth in our smaller investment in a new facility in Texas. They’re ramping up now, they’re in production mode, but with where the industry is right now, they’re starting a little slower. The equipment side of the business is more negatively impacted than kind of the construction project side of the semiconductor business. Our larger facility capacity expansion in Texas is not yet live. So they’re still in build mode. So we haven’t seen anything out of that new investment yet.

But we did see in Q4, the semiconductor industry really – they’re still busy, but there was a bit of an inventory buildup. So they’ve been working through that. And we’re positive going into 2024 that we’ll start to see some improvement. A lot of it, though, on the construction side is dependent upon the pace that our customers build because there have been some stops and starts on some of the projects.

Thanks, Phil.

Thanks again, everyone, for joining our call today. And before we close out the call, I’d like to remind everyone that we will be in Florida later this month presenting at the BMO 33rd Annual Global Metals, Mining and Critical Materials [ph] Conference, and we hope to see many of you there. Thank you again to all of you for your continued support of Reliance.