Kate Johnson
Lumen Technologies, Inc. (LUMN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Batya. I'll handle the debt one and give the other two pieces to Chris. The clarity of having this TSA updated and amended is -- has been great for our customer conversations. It basically shifts the maturities to '29. It provides the ability to focus on you know our transformation efforts and have conversations with customers without that question. And so, we've really been relishing that. You know our pipeline and conversations with customers are, you know, positive and growing, and a lot of that has to do with the sales excellence that we've put in place in terms of supporting our people with world-class platforms and you know driving AI for sales productivity and things like that. So I think we're in a good spot. Chris?

So a couple of things. There's, number one, using AI to reach out to customers in a programmatic fashion at scale to drive productivity of the outbound calling that we do is the first step. And so, we've made a lot of progress there, putting the platform together. Number two, taking a migration factory approach, so for each legacy platform that customers are on, understanding the behavior signals that drive likelihood to churn and approaching them in cohorts and then meeting them where they are in terms of you know what they have and the best solution that we can migrate them too, and doing as much of that in an automated fashion as possible. All of that is the chassis that we built in '23. Now we're starting to -- and in Q4 we had you know some pretty significant progress, numbers we don't report on, but in terms of doing the reach outs and making progress with migrations, et cetera. So we'll continue to monitor it and as we get to a place of growth and stability and productivity of those teams in a way that we can share, we certainly will.

So starting with mid-markets, this is actually the first market segment, customer segment that we stood up, you know, our squads, our scrum teams to go after. And that's everybody from sales, marketing, customer success, IT operations, you know, finance, billing, et cetera. All kind of circling around the customer segment to say, what are the offerings that we need, you know, what's the price we need to win, what does the marketplace look like, you know, how do we swarm them and cover the markets, both direct and indirect, because that's, you know, we want to continue to leverage our ecosystems for more feet on the street from a sales perspective. And all of that work happened in '23. What's most remarkable about that is, it set the tone and context for how we then do turnarounds in the other segments, because we got this learning mojo thing happening where, you know, the teams are meeting with daily stand-ups and weekly stand-ups and reporting back on the challenges that they were experiencing and then using an agile methodology, whether it's building a piece of IT functionality or it's working with the product team to say we need these net new capabilities, or, you know, the marketing team to say, how can we do, you know, better account-based marketing, et cetera. And that method of working, you know, across functions with no silos in an agile, you know, rapid fashion has set the context for basically how we treat all the other segments. So that's thing one. Thing two is, you know, internally, there's a bit of a camaraderie and healthy competition. And I call my mid-markets teams the sandbaggers, because basically, you know, they're always coming in a little bit better than they say they're going to, and I think they're starting to get their chops. And so, you know, we're excited by our improvement in productivity, we're excited about our improvement in sales and revenue et cetera. I think what we'd like to do next and where you'll see us sort of, you know, target the guns is on the ecosystem side making sure that we have a platform that is partner-friendly so we can drive sales productivity indirect, because we all know that that's what we need for total coverage. So you want to handle the other one?

Why don't you hit the cash flow and I'll do the --

Sure. On page six, just for everybody's edification here, it's the Lumen digital platform, and we have the portfolio outlined with a totally digital customer experience wrapped around two important things. The first is our network, our core network services, because none of these digital services are relevant without total integration into the network, customers are demanding left to right, top to bottom integration, quick, secure, effortless. It needs to be exactly that in order to be relevant in the digital economy. And I think you can look to other companies that have some of these digital services and they don't have the fiber network and they just can't get the economics and they can't get the customer service right. So we're kind of excited about it. There are four core capabilities that we have right now for Lumen digital. We're just getting started, as I said. The ones that we have here represent a total available market of around $40 billion, but I think that's actually understating it, because we have a couple of really interesting opportunities emerging that we'll talk about as we get a little bit closer to shaping them. Think of it this way, NaaS is cloudifying telco. It's digital everything, any port, any service, anytime, anywhere. ExaSwitch is the Center of Connectivity. Fast pass into the cloud, any cloud, and across cloud, the edge is becoming more and more germane, especially with a totally digital network and high-capacity switching, because users are everywhere. And the expectation is that I'm going to process all of that data that's generated at the speed of thought, and so proximity really matters. And then the last thing is security, and we have huge muscle here that's totally under commercialized. So we're excited about the future. And right now, we're just kind of calling it a very big opportunity for net new profit pools, which is going to really help our growth curve.

Yeah. So I'll take the second part of the question. It's an interesting one, for sure. And I think you should think of us as seeing huge opportunity in the business segment by providing digital services that are integrated into the network and getting smarter and smarter about how we can take advantage of these really complex environments, hybrid cloud, multi-cloud, GenAI, et cetera. We have not only the right team, as I've talked about, we've got a world-class network, which I've talked about, and we've already got a head start with a lot of intellectual property protected by patents that sort of uniquely positions us to take advantage of this. That's where our focus is. We're maniacally focused on delivering value to customers and obsessing about their needs, because that's how we grow as fast as possible. If there are opportunities to integrate, you know, vertically or horizontally, as time goes on, we will strategically look at every single one of those, as is our fiduciary responsibility, and as they make sense, we'll go after them.

Thank you.