Kathy Warden
Northrop Grumman Corporation. (NOC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

So Kristine, we've been working with the customer. And as we noted, the conversations continue. And last year, in 2023, we and Air Force disclosed that about $60 million of $1.5 billion that Congress appropriated for inflation was allocated to the advanced procurement for Lot 1 on this program. But we have yet to work through what that relief may be in future lots. We have, of course, as we said, updated our assumptions -- and through conversation and the tight budget environment, we've actually lowered the expectations for inflation relief. And so at this point, our focus is on executing this program and finding opportunities in the performance on the program while we continue to work with the government to see if there is any inflation relief opportunity.

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks, Rich. So as the land-based leg of the nuclear triad, Sentinel is a top priority for the Department of Defense. The requirement for the program has been validated numerous times by multiple administrations, and we expect that to be the outcome of this latest review. As the Air Force is reported, the non-operating cost reach on the program is largely due to cost growth in the military construction and procurement segments of the program, and we and the industry team are currently executing on the cost plus EMD phase of the program. That's important because our design work in this phase is helping the Air Force to better estimate the costs of those later phases and due to a number of factors of learning their cost estimates for these later phases have increased, and that's what's driving the non-[indiscernible] breach as the Air Force has said, growth on the EMD would not have triggered the breach.

I'll also note that their update captures the inflation since 2020, the last time they did a cost estimate. And we all know that there's been significantly higher inflation than what was assumed at that time. So some of that is what you're also seeing reflected in these latest cost estimates. I mean with that said, though, you asked about our performance on the program, and I'm really pleased to report on the progress that our team has made over the last 3 years while we've been executing on the EMD phase. We've on boarded thousands of engineers. We've matured the system design. We've produced and tested critical hardware in the missile system, as I've outlined earlier on the call.

We've also engaged in risk reduction, which is helping to inform the Air Force launch facility modernization and we've done all this while also doing detailed planning for the future phase of the program. I myself have visited the missile fields actually, I was at one last Friday, which is part of why I've got this cold, I brought back. And I met with the Airmen [ph], who have committed themselves to this important mission. So we're all in. We know how important this is our team is partnering closely with the Air Force, and we're going to help them to deliver this essential capability for our nation.

Thank you.

Yes. So as you note, there is a delay to IOC, the reason though for the Nunn-McCurdy breach is the cost growth. So oftentimes scheduled delays add costs to the program, that is not the primary contributor. It is, as you noted, design decisions, particularly related to the command and launch requirements that the Air Force has and that affects the deployment in the launch facilities in each of the silos. And so that is what we are working to inform the Air Force decision process on alternatives and ways to reduce those costs and procurement and yet those are Air Force cost estimates, and they include a significant amount of scope that is outside of the industry team's execution. But nonetheless, we will help to inform those discussions if they're ongoing during this review process.

It does not, Doug, our near-term assumptions on both the ramp of the program relative to sales as well as the profitability of the program are not materially impacted.

It sounds like you need those wishes as well.

Very insightful question as always, Cai. So when you look back to 2015, when we did B-21, we certainly have changed our view on bidding of contracts where did not have a mature design. It's a point of bid and yet we committed to fixed price options into the future. And we have, to my knowledge, not done that again. And we have passed on some high-profile programs as a result of the risk balance that the customer put forward in the RFP not meeting our standards.

We have programs like Halo, which we have certainly learned some additional lessons and are applying those as we move forward. And you note on some very recent bids, we have taken a different approach in looking at firm fixed price, where we've either declined a bit if the customer chose to go fixed price or we've offered a price -- in the case of SDA Tranche 2 that we thought was fair and reasonable and the customer decided not to further negotiate with us. These are things that are going to happen and we're going to remain disciplined. We have plenty of opportunity in this company to grow. We have a strong pipeline of opportunities we're pursuing. And a strong pipeline of opportunities that we believe have the right risk/reward balance with industry.

Thank you too.

Good morning.

With all of our EACs, B-21 included, we do our best based on what we know today to project conditions out into the future. Now with that said, that's difficult to do longer-term that period of performance is. So in this case, we're looking out over greater than 5 years. So as we get into those out years, that's a bit more speculative, but we do incorporate our expectations for changes in everything from material labor pricing to productivity and learning.

Good morning.

Thanks, Ken. We laid out 3 drivers, the first of which being stabilization in macroeconomics, and we are certainly seeing that in 2024, which is why we see our margin rates this year in line with last with some opportunity for improvement as we go throughout the year. We layer on top of that cost and productivity actions that we are taking in the company, and that will provide some tailwinds in 2024 growing tailwinds into 2025. And the mix shift really is a bit of a longer-term proposition for us. We've talked about that being a shift from cost type to fixed price, where we expect 2023 was really our high watermark for cost type, but a very gradual shift in that mix to fixed price with more of it coming in the latter half of this decade.

And then international mix is the other where we don't expect significant international growth in 2024, but we do expect that to step up based on our pipeline and particularly the strong weapons demand outside the U.S. in 2025. That gives you a sense of what will be a tailwind to margin rate win.

And Myles, on AS margins, what we're seeing, as Dave noted earlier is that with the B-21 growth being a bit stronger than we had anticipated, AS is stepping up on top line. It is putting some pressure on margin rate, but margin dollars are exactly where we had anticipated they would be coming into 2024, and our guide therefore, remained consistent for AS on a dollar basis, even though we now are looking at more of a mid-9s rate projection.

As you go out over time, it's less dependent on what happens with absorbing that lower rate on B-21 and more what happens in terms of other new programs coming into the AS portfolio and the rate at which we will book those programs. So we'll provide you more insight into that over the coming year as we look towards 2025 and beyond.

It certainly is an area of strength in our portfolio. We've seen strong performance by the team on the U.S. Army program and also as we are deploying in Poland, and we see follow-on opportunities in Poland as a result. We've also, as I’ve spoken about throughout the course of 2023, added a number of additional countries who have expressed interest in the program to the pipeline, and that's what would drive the growth that we anticipate in the 2025 time frame.

As you noted, I mentioned international demand. Part of that is weapons part of that is the IBCS portfolio. And then, of course, we have some aircraft and mission system strength in the pipeline for international in 2025 as well. The program itself is growing at a fairly rapid rate, but off of a relatively small it's about $400 million of annual sales. And we expect that to grow, of course, but not a major contributor is the enterprise line for growth.

Let me start with the first part of your question and Dave will cover the second. As we noted, we identified this risk last year, and we, throughout the year, revisited it on a quarterly basis. There were 2 primary changes in the fourth quarter that both led us to deem it probable loss as well as impacted the value of that loss.

First, we significantly reduced our projections for funding related to macroeconomic impacts, as we've talked about a couple of times already. Although we continue to partner with the government to address these impacts. We believe it's prudent in light of the current budget status to reduce those assumptions. And so we did that.

The second is we've experienced growth in our cost projection, both in the internal production costs as we've continued to build aircraft as Dave talked about through our negotiations with suppliers. We have learned and built that learning into the forward-looking estimates that we now have in the EAC, so those were the factors. As we've talked about, we did a very detailed look at this EAC in the fourth quarter and had matured and had actual data to reflect on that we did not have at an earlier point.

And Jason, I really appreciate the question. I wish I had another hour to discuss it with you, but being respectful of everybody's time, let me just simply say that I see our portfolio and the set of opportunities and risks we have as balanced and consistent with what I have seen in recent years since I stepped into this role. We have a team who has stepped up and provided top line growth, which I believe is industry leading at about 5% on a compound annual basis each of the last four years. We're projecting that again this year. We see the opportunity space is rich, both domestically and internationally. And to the risks that we have in executing this portfolio, while the pandemic certainly made that more challenging for the last couple of years. We're turning the corner.

Our overall program performance has not been stronger since I've been at the company, and that's 15 years and going. So I really feel good about how this team is positioned. We now have fully disclosed and taken into the P&L the B-21 risk, which we've been talking about and feel confident that we can now go execute this program. And I am proud of what the team collectively has accomplished across 2023 and look forward to the outlook we have in place for 2024.

So with that, I just want to again thank my colleagues at Northrop Grumman for their dedication, both to our country and our company. I also want to thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call in April. So Josh, that concludes the call. Thank you.