Kim Dang
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good afternoon, Jeremy.

Sure, Jeremy. Yeah, I mean, the cold weather, you're right, does lead to incremental opportunities for us. You're also right that this is not the same order of magnitude as a Uri. When we do our budget, we do budget for some cold weather and I think coming into the year, we are a little bit nervous about that given the -- a warmer than expected weather. With this cold front I think we have made good progress on achieving -- on our way to achieving some of those cold weather budget assumptions. So, very happy with the progress to date.

No. I mean, I think we like the flexibility that we have on our balance sheet. We've been around 4-ish times for the last three years. I think in end of '21, we were at 3.9. Last year, we were at 4.1. And right now, we're at 4.2. But if you adjusted for the EBITDA on the acquisition, you would be at 4.1. And so that gives us flexibility to do acquisitions. That gives us flexibility to do share repurchases. And so, last year we were able to do share repurchase, we did $522 million, as you heard David say. We made a $1.8 billion acquisition and our balance sheet ended essentially in the same place that we started the year. So, when -- especially when we're doing attractive acquisitions, it's not that dilutive to our debt metric and so we acquired the NextEra acquisition at about 8.6 times. And so, relative to our debt metrics, even though we are 100% debt-funded, it wasn't that dilutive. So, I think where our balance sheet is, it gives us lots of flexibility and we were able to execute on multiple opportunistic transactions during 2023. And that's quite frankly what we would look to do going forward as well.

Hey, Brian.

Well, let's start on the interstate transmission side. And so, when you have a winter storm, people are going to need more balancing services, they're going to need more storage services, you're going to have more usage because you have more molecules flowing. And so what happens around a lot of times in these winter storms is, we are providing ancillary services to our customers that they need and they want in order to serve their customers. So -- and so you see some incremental business on the interstate side in and around those services. On the intrastate side, there we actually -- we do hold some storage in our own name and then our customers have storage as well. So, we make money from time to time on the small amount of storage that we do hold in our name. We also have a little bit of transport capacity that we hold in our own name. It's not significant overall, but we can make money on that where we haven't already hedged it. And then some of the same types of services that the interstate customers need, the intrastate customers also need. So, they will over-pull on our system above their rights, and those services come at premium rates. And so, those are the types of things that you see when we have winter weather that leads to some incremental margins -- on the margins.

Sure. I can talk about both of those, and then I'll ask people to add. And so, yes, we think there is going to be a need for further Permian egress in the back half of the decade. I think that's consistent with the -- with what we have been saying. We think we are well-positioned for that. We've got -- we've built multiple pipelines successfully. They've been generally very close to being on time. We also have an existing system that we can interconnect with, and so we can offer the shippers on a Permian egress pipeline storage services and other downstream services that I think some of our competitors can't. So, I think it's a project we are very interested in, but we will be disciplined in how we approach it and make sure that the returns are attractive to our shareholders.

I think GCX, some of the same dynamics around GCX. GCX obviously because it's a compression and expansion of an existing system, we'll get to market with it much quicker. We've continued to have conversations with shippers on that capacity. Not quite there yet. But some -- yeah, I mean, if we did one, if we participated in the new-build on the GCX expansion, there also could be further downstream expansions of our existing systems. And so, that's something that we're also looking at as part of this.

Yeah. So, if you look at our Haynesville volumes, they were I think, Tom didn’t say this, but in the 14% quarter-over quarter, Haynesville was up over 30%. So, we've continued to see increase in our Haynesville volumes. And so, David, will you comment?

The $8.0 billion when we published, that was slightly below $8.0 billion, but it rounded up to $8.0 billion and so -- and then the $8.16 billion, the only difference between those two numbers is the EBITDA on NextEra. And the EBITDA on NextEra for 2024 is consistent with what we were expecting.

Yeah. I mean, I would say the contribution from the RNG plants in the fourth quarter was relatively small. And we do have three plants in service now. They are not running as consistently as we would like them to run. And so, I think that's what we're focused on now. We recently took over operations from Waste Management and we think that once we really get our arms around this, we will be able to run these -- get these to run very consistently. That may take a couple of months into 2024, but we think we'll get them running consistently.

Sure. So, between '23 and '24, there is an expansion project, contracted expansion project that came online, it came online late last -- late -- very late last year. And so, that incremental EBITDA between '23 and '24 is locked-in with customer contracts. With respect to '24 and '25, we don't see anything as significant as that driving the growth. We talked about longer-term multiple being between 7 times and 7.5 times, coming down from the 8.6 times that we bought it. And that was driven a lot by -- a small amount by cost-savings, but really by some commercial synergies and some incremental business that we think we can bring to those pipes, but that really occur three to four years out.

Yeah. So, our leverage targets are 4.5 times and there's no change in that. And so, I think we feel like that's appropriate given the size, scope of our assets, the stability of our contracts that are underpinned by take or pay contracts with good customer credit quality. We run, as I said earlier, around 4 times at the end of the last three years. And we see value in having some cushion for opportunities and/or risk if they should arise. And so that gives us plenty of capacity to execute on some opportunity if we found it attractive. Now this isn't burning a hole in our pocket. We don't have to go out and spend this money today. I mean, you've seen us, as I talked earlier, acquire those NextEra assets. Not much impact to our debt to EBITDA multiple. We purchased 500 million in shares, not much impact. And so we've been able to do a lot of these things without huge impacts, but we've got a lot of capacity there if we find something that is a good strategic set, and that has attractive economics for our shareholders.

Yeah. Hey, Neal, on -- with respect to the 2024 budget assumptions, we're going to go through all of those at the conference next week. So, if you can hold your question and we'll make sure we address it next week at the Investor Conference when we go through the '24 budget in detail.

Yeah. I think we're comfortable at 4.5 times, as I said earlier, given the size, scope -- size and scope of our assets and stability of our cash flow. And so, that being said, we see value in having some cushion and we've been operating with a cushion for the last couple of years.

Sure. Yes.

There may be a little bit, but it is not -- it's not material.

And ultimately the customer -- the customers and the customer contracts will drive that.

Sure. I mean, we will look at the opportunity, that's what I would say. I would say, in general, what we have found outside of the US is that it's hard to get the types of risk-adjusted returns that we would like to get. And so, because you've got different tax issues associated with repatriating the cash and generally returns, depending on which market you're talking about, but returns have been lower in most of those international markets. So, I think, what I'm saying is, I doubt that happens, but we will look at those opportunities. We don't pass up looking at things and evaluating whether that could make sense and whether that has -- if there are synergies with our existing assets. So, I'll just leave it at that.

And I'll repeat some of the stuff that we've said in the past. But I mean, we think this is a flawed rule and it was a flawed process. It's heavily challenged and it's legitimately challenged. Every state that has requested a stay on their state plans has prevailed. So, this has stayed in the fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, and ninth Circuit Courts. And with respect to the Federal plans, that has been appealed to the Supreme Court and what we think is a very positive sign, the Supreme Court has requested a hearing that will happen later in February. So, where that leaves us is, there are only three states right now where KMI -- where the rule is not stayed and KMI is impacted. And so, that the impacts that we disclosed in the 10-K are much smaller and I think we discussed that in there as well. The potential impacts, I should say.

Thank you, Sheila.