Mary Barra 
General Motors Company (GM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Hi Rod, thanks for your comments. I wouldn't necessarily say change in our strategy, I think as we've continued to progress in the EV transformation we have found more ways to be much more efficient with capital. And I do want to correct a statement I made earlier where I said, we'd eliminated 1,000 selectable options across our portfolio. It was really a hundred. Although, I think I have a new stretch target for the team as we take the initiative global. But its initiatives like that of continue to look for ways to optimize the capital.

When you look at our ICE portfolio, the investment that we made in the last part of the last decade really sets us up well to have all new products coming off the existing platforms, whether it's full-size trucks, full-size SUVs, mid-size SUVs, etc. And so, we're looking to continue to be very focused with capital to make sure it's going to generate the right return. And I would also say we are prioritizing, continuing to return cash to our shareholders as we go through this transformation, because we think the strength of our business, especially our ICE business allows us to do that. So it's not a change in strategy.

I would say on some of the business you mentioned like BrightDrop and others, as we look at the business. I think it’s important is we started them to give them some room, but as we got clarity on where the real opportunity for GM was, we could make those businesses much more efficient. And we're going to continue to do that to work on our cost structure to make every dollar a capital count. But we still see growth opportunity. I mean, we had a revenue growth of 10% last year. So we still have many initiatives in which to grow. We're just going to do it in a very optimized way.

Yes, appreciate the question, Dan. We are committed to Cruise. When we look at the technology, the foundational technology is sound. We had already demonstrated and validated externally that Cruise technology is already safer than a human driver. One of the things we've learned is, humans expect technology computers to be much more safe than they -- their expectations than they have for other people. And with that knowledge we are already working on what the level of the technology needs to be to meet the consumers' expectations. We think we can do that, so we are committed. And we are working on the detailed plan right now of how we'll go forward.

We're also looking -- the other big learning was, as you roll out technology that is as transformative as this and has incredible benefits to safety, you have to do it in a way where you're really working with the regulators at the local, state, and federal level, as well as first responders. So as we roll out anywhere, we are going to make sure we build the right relationships, they understand the technology, they understand what’s the benefit of the technology, and that's what we'll do. But we have confidence in the underlying technology and you’ll hear more about our plans for Cruise as we develop the plan in the upcoming weeks.

Yes. Thanks, Adam. So from a capital perspective and to build on what I said with Rod, the majority of our capital spend is toward EV. Remember, from an ICE perspective, we have the foundation, already built the plants. And as I mentioned, all of the architectures for our really strong ICE portfolio, that capital has already been deployed. So this is really an opportunity for us to just continue to do great vehicles with very optimized capital from an ICE portfolio as mentioned with the Traverse, the Equinox and the full-size truck, just to name a few.

To your point on capital deployed from an infrastructure perspective, as the market evolves and as battery technology evolves, we will continue to evaluate our level of vertical integration. I think with the work we've done on LTM and the work we've done on electric motors and the joint ventures with plant one, two and three, and then four -- our fourth plant is with Samsung, that gives us a different form factor with prismatic and cylindrical cells, I think we're well positioned. But as we move forward, we'll evaluate that.

So I think there's options there. And as you can see, with all the initiatives we have, we are really working to take overall capital down, but still get the number of programs that we need. So Adam, I hope that helps. Happy if you have additional questions there.
And then on Elon's comments about China, I think, look, I don't discount any competitor. We need to make sure we have beautifully designed vehicles that have the right features, the right safety and the right customer experience. And we have to do it at a competitive cost base, and that's why we're focused so much on our cost base.
Now when you mentioned the Chinese consumers, we do need a level playing field. I mean there comes a point where if it's not a level playing field between tariff and nontariff barriers, any industry is going to struggle to compete. So give us a level playing field, and I'll put our products in our cost structure that we continue to improve up against any.

Hi, John. Thanks for the question. And we continue to evaluate the strategy on a regular basis. We have very robust strategy discussions with our Board and with the leadership team. And as you mentioned, the world is changing quickly whether it's EV, whether it's software, autonomy, et cetera, and we're going to continue to respond to that. I do agree with you that we're doing that from a position of strength. And we'll evaluate where we have the opportunity to deploy capital and generate an appropriate return. And like we made the decision for China -- excuse me, for Europe, when we looked at that, what we said actually has happened. We said it would be a win-win-win, a win for the Opel team, a win for at the time, PSA and a win for General Motors because we participate in the warrants, and we did just that.

So we're not going to shy away from making tough calls or maybe calls that people wouldn't expect if we think it's the right thing to do for the business to ensure we're here, we protect our strengths in the markets that we have, whether it's North America. I mentioned on the earnings call, in the top quartile, we've been leading that for several years, and now we profitably have taken the most affordable segment. And we have a strong business in South America and many of our international markets. China, as Paul mentioned, there's tremendous changing not only from a technology point of view but a competitive point of view.

And so we're evaluating China. We think there's a place to play. It is a tremendous growth opportunity if we can do that well, and that's our goal. But nothing is off the table in ensuring that GM has a strong future to generate the right profitability and the right return for our investors.

Yes. We are going to be bringing those in at a time where we need them from a compliance perspective. This year, we're very focused in -- I think as we are able to get the delivery to our dealers, they are going to see the strength of the EV portfolio. So I'll have more to share on the hybrid capacity. We'll adjust the capacity because, again, we have the technology. We know the targeted segments that we're going to apply it to. So we'll have the ability to flex and do what we need to from a hybrid perspective. But I think for calendar year 2024, EV is our focus. And we think we've got tremendous growth opportunity as we free up getting the availability of the products to customers.

So, Ryan, there's a lot in there, but let me first by saying the response from regulators has been positive. So -- and we'll continue to have that outreach and build that relationship and be transparent with them. You shouldn't read too much into what we said shortly thereafter we learned of the situation. We went in and did a lot of work. And I got a -- I have to give our co-presidents, Craig Glidden and [indiscernible] credit for going in and really staying focused on the technology, making sure we keep the very talented software engineers that are doing incredible work and have allowed us to already clock 5 million miles of driverless miles.

So it was really just going to look a lot of where the opportunity to cut costs came from, the change in strategy to really focus on one city to demonstrate it as opposed to -- you remember at one point, they were talking about 20 cities this year. And so, there were a lot of people who had been recently added more from an operational standpoint that we were able to exit those employees.

But clearly a focus on the technology. And the way I look at this is, we're going to make sure we do it right from a regulatory, a consumer, a customer relationship perspective, get the technology where we think it would be. And then once we're informed by doing it well in the cities, then we'll have the opportunity to go quickly and scale from there. So don't read anything into the $1 billion other than we went and did the work and saw the opportunity.

So on the further funding at Cruise, I'll take that, and I'll have Paul answer -- excuse me, the other question. As we get the detailed plan of how we're going to relaunch Cruise in the road map, then we'll evaluate the overall funding needs. And we'll determine is it internal or externally sourced.

Emmanuel, I would consider it right now it's our best estimate for this year. Obviously, as we develop a much more detailed plan that will inform over the next couple of years what the spending needs to be, so more to come.

Yes. Chris, appreciate the question. I think back in the 2018 time frame, I think we should have, in hindsight, put it across the portfolio much more quickly. It's not a number of models. I don't have it off the top of my head. Ashish, we can provide that. But it's on a number of models across the portfolio right now. As we launch the Traverse this year will be added to the Traverse. Again, we're seeing extremely strong response from customers where I think it's over 80%, 85% of customers once they experience the technology say they would never -- they would not want a car without it or they would strongly prefer it on their vehicle, which, in my experience, is a pretty high interest rate for a single technology.

So we're committed. We're going to continue to develop. And we have been, along the way, adding more roads and adding more capability, whether it's lane change, whether it's trailering. So there's a robust plan to continue to improve Super Cruise, and we'll stay on that. And we are seeing the profitability benefits. And the more vehicles to your point, we get it on, the better it will be. And we're committed to do that. And frankly, have done quite a bit already. And we can provide that.

Yes. No, we are committed to getting it on many vehicles as possible. In some cases, we had planned to make it standard. The semiconductor shortage kind of slowed us down on that because if [indiscernible] building a vehicle at all or waiting to build it with Super Cruise. So we are very committed to getting across many vehicles. We've dramatically taken the cost down on the technology. So it's a really good value. And in my opinion, we're deploying it as quickly as we can. And it's really just with -- there is engineering required and some sensors required when you add it to a new vehicle, but we're doing that in a very cadenced but as quick as possible fashion.

Thank you very much. And thanks, everybody, for your questions. I'd like to share just a couple of thoughts before we close. Fundamentally, we believe we are well positioned to have a strong year, thanks to our success in high-margin and growing ICE segments, our expanding EV portfolio, our cost discipline and our continuous improvements to design, engineering, supply chain, manufacturing and marketing process improvements.

In addition, we are prioritizing the return of cash to our shareholders on a consistent basis as we execute the plan. We know we must execute in every part of the business in 2024, not just ICE. And I can assure you we will. So thank you for your continued support and for joining today's call, and please stay safe.

