Maria Black
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, fair enough. Thanks, Samad, and I appreciate the congratulations on the quarter and the year. We're, obviously, pretty proud over here. So with respect to Roll, it is exciting. It's been an exciting product for us to rollout, no pun intended, across the down-market here in the U.S. We're excited to take it into international.

As mentioned, the initial goal is to put it into two countries. And it is an incremental add for us because it's really initially into these two countries. We're thinking more kind of the down-market SMB space, which is an area of opportunity for us across many of the markets that we serve. But we're also excited about Roll long-term beyond that space. So excited to dip it into our international space as we continue the overall rollout of Roll.

In terms of factoring it into the overall bookings, not really. I think the - by the time the launch happens and as we're thinking about the full year for our international business or full year for new business bookings, I'd be surprised if it ultimately makes a dent, but to us, it's really about the long-term value that that offer will bring as we seek to expand the addressable market for us into these various places.

Last but not least, Samad, you mentioned the complexity of being international. And I have to tell you, I spoke to it a little bit in the prepared remarks. There's a lot that goes into being in each one of these countries. To your point, there is complexity country-by-country. Many countries put many of the states that are complex here in the U.S. to shame in terms of the complexity that provides, and that's everything from government entities, legal and tax attorneys, who's the tax authority and how do you get to them. We often think of it as an ecosystem. We think about it as kind of that final mile, if you will, and that's the complexity and that's what we've been building over the last couple of decades in our international business.

So it's a lot more than dropping off software at a country border and hoping that it works. There's a lot to be said for the ecosystem around it. Again, whether it's tax authorities, data lodgement, things of that nature. So excited to take advantage of the footprint we've built and put in our product into that footprint as we expand Roll internationally.

That's right. My only add to that comment would be, we stepped into the quarter with healthy pipelines, with a strong staffing position that was growing tenure. I have to tell you when I reflect on all the quarters that I've watched across our sales execution, generally speaking, you have a bunch of businesses that are outperforming and you have a few businesses that are perhaps being carried by those that are outperforming. What I have to tell you is, this was a broad-based strength across the entire organization sales implementation service with kind of an all-hands-on-deck execution, and that's really what it's all about. What I would attribute it to is incredible execution.

Good morning, Bryan. So I'll comment on both. The mid-market strength that we've seen and coming in a bit better than expected. It's been solid for quite some time. That's inclusive of our HRO offerings, and as you know, we've been speaking to those quite a bit in terms of the resonance of that value proposition in the market. So I think that adds to the overall strength that we have in the mid-market, which is the various flavors and offers that we have.

I think the other is that we've made tremendous investments into that business. So we do have our next-generation payroll engine that the sales force is pretty excited about and we're seeing that in the wins that are coming in and just kind of the momentum there. I think the other is the amount of product investment and innovation that we've done in the mid-market, specifically referencing the investments we've made into the Workforce Now platform with the new UX and many of the things that I've been speaking to.

And I think the other call out is it definitely helps on a new business bookings perspective, when the business on the other side, so service and NPS, if you will, as well as retention are firing on all cylinders. And that's exactly the case. We have record retention in our mid-market, and we have near-record MPS results across the mid-market.

So really, really proud of the execution in that entire space. And that definitely fuels and feeds the ability for our sellers to get excited about everything that I just mentioned to go-to-market. Stepping into the question around next-gen HCM, I did make a reference to that. We've talked a lot over the last quarters about this year.

And what we've been working on is scaling implementation, and that's exactly what we've done in that business. So, we were able to onboard a lot of the clients, that we had on our backlog. We've shortened the time of implementation, and we also saw additions to that backlog. So, we saw new sales in the fourth quarter of that next-generation HCM platform.

We're really excited about the momentum as we step into '24. And as such, we believe that Next Gen HCM will be a larger contributor to bookings for us in the upcoming years than it was in '23, but we were pleased with what we saw in the fourth quarter and the momentum heading in.

So, I think both of your questions, I just want to confirm, I'm hearing them the right way. I think they both kind of speak to the general sentiment around the demand environment.

Is that kind of a good way to think about it in terms of decisions getting delayed and/or what's the appetite to, I suppose, by HCM in the current macro environment. And so, I'll comment on the general demand environment and feel free to follow-up with an additional question if I didn't cover what you wanted. But the way that I think about demand, and I've spoken to it quite a bit over the last couple of quarters.

Demand remains strong, and that is very broad-based across the business. And so, if you think about the down market, you still have the strength of small business formations. You have the strength of hiring that's happening in the down market. And as such you have clients there needing to make decisions around our HCM offers in that space, right? So that's definitely a place that we've been winning, and we'll continue to lean in as warranted by the demand.

The mid-market, as we talked about that a little bit earlier in terms of the overall demand there for the complexity that exists in that market. That's inclusive again of the solution we have around our HR outsourcing offerings. And so that's kind of the mid-market. So getting to your question, which is really about the enterprise space and perhaps even the MNC space, it is an area that we continue to watch as it relates to demand cycles, decision delays.

And the main reason is those are really the places that you, as you're aware, have additional, perhaps signers, additional levels of approval, things of that nature. And what I would say, which is consistent with what we've been seeing, is that we are back to pre-pandemic levels. So deal cycles did shorten during the pandemic, and they elongated back the pre-pandemic. But it isn't something that we're seeing additional elongation beyond historical averages.

And so to your point, though, it is an area that we consistently watch both in the enterprise space as well as in our international business, just to kind of see if the demand cycle is at the client's appetite to make buying decisions or implementation decisions during this time has changed thus far, we're not seeing it in a broad-based way. But it is an area we continue to monitor.

Sure. And thank you, Mark. I appreciate the congratulations. So, I am very excited about the strategic priorities, as I outlined during the prepared remarks. I don't know that I was necessarily expecting to have to pick a favorite pillar or a - one that I expect to yield impact faster than another because I think broadly speaking, they apply across all of ADP, and they will depend a bit as it relates to kind of each business, right?

And so, when I think about some of the product investments that we're making. Some of the things, the work that we've done and the impact, whether it's taking a product like roll internationally, which I mentioned earlier, will be short-term results, but some of the impact of continuing to build on the momentum we have in the mid-market with our next-generation payroll engine, as an example, where we have an ability to win differently, we see competitive advantages and differentiation there.

I think that's an area that can have tremendous impact in short order. I think the other is Don did it first, which is he mentioned the likes of generative AI. And when I think about that, the Gen AI and applying it broadly across these pillars, I think there is opportunity for us in product that's pretty tremendous, whether it's solving real opportunities for our clients to become more efficient.

We've talked a lot about that, whether that's things like job descriptions, performance reviews, things of that nature. But it also leads me kind of to that second pillar to your point around what will come short-term versus long-term. I think there's opportunity in the short-term that will make impact as well as the long-term, in terms of really applying generative AI across our expertise that we provide to our clients.

And so, when I think about our ability to make it easier for our clients to engage with us or our associates to engage with our clients, some of the tools that - we have already deployed across various businesses and will further deploy into fiscal '24, such as - think of it almost as a copilot agent assist where we're helping our agents be more efficient. That's going to yield short-term results, if nothing else in client satisfaction.

And again, we know happy clients lead to a longer staying clients that leads to more sales and the wheel, if you will. So, I think there are opportunities across all of the strategic priorities to have some impact us sooner than the long-term. But yes, I'm equally excited about all of them. And certainly, we spoke quite a bit about the global piece. In terms of the next-generation time engine, that is being developed in tandem with our next-generation payroll engine.

And those two things are really about time and payroll sitting together in our mid-market. It is a based on the same backbone of technology. And so, we're very excited to take that more broadly across the mid-market as we continue to take the next generation payroll engine also more broadly crossed. And I think, both of those things will get feathered into the impact of our win rates, if you will, and our new business bookings in the mid-market throughout the course of '24.

Sure. Good morning, Eugene. PEO bookings, again, we're incredibly pleased with the results in the fourth quarter and the reacceleration. We also did see the reacceleration in the third quarter. So the back half of the PEO was exactly as you suggested. It was a lot of focus for the management team, and I'm really excited about how we came together to execute. And in terms of the overall demand trends in long-term, short term.

I remain bullish on the overall value proposition of the PEO and the demand that it warrants. It's hard in that business to kind of pin down the demand trends, because there are so many variables. And in the PEO, it's not as simple as looking at just leads and number of request for proposals that are coming in, because as you know, not every client as a potential fits. So it's a little a little difficult to pin down kind of the various demand trends in the specificity outside of the overall belief in the demand environment.

And there's a normal level of kind of variability as it relates to PEO bookings quarter-to-quarter, which also makes it hard to kind of spot various trends. Some of that has to do with the calendar year-end. Some of that has to do with when renewals happen. But nonetheless, there was a tremendous amount of focus and still remains. We remain very focused as a team across all of the leadership to make sure that we continue to drive the strong growth in bookings in the PEO in '24.

Yes. And so said differently, the good news is we just went through our strategic plan process in the last six months. And so, we had all of our priority sequence in all of our investments and incremental investments lined up. As we marry that to Gen AI, we have a very clear lens on where some projects may get enhanced and where some projects may look different and perhaps get replaced by a new way of thinking about it.

And so candidly speaking, we're going through a lot of these opportunities at this juncture kind of thinking through the bets and there will be incremental investment. And there will be other investments that we repurposed to go do some of these things - in a new way. So, the answer is both.

Thank you.

Sure. You started with a question on international. So is the rest of your question about international or is it just in general?

About international. Yes. So, we have been, over the years, been making in-country decisions on investments. I talked a lot about the, call it, the feet on the street, the final mile of infrastructure that we have to support our international business. And so, we will continue to do that. That's inclusive of each year. We go into new markets and some of those are organic ways that we go into new markets.

Some of those are actually partners that we ultimately end up at some point, call it, purchasing, if you will, or acquiring. And so, the answer is both organic and inorganic. That's kind of how we've built the business over the last 20 years. And we will continue where warranted to think about it both ways. And the decision criteria for us is really about speed.

A lot of times, it's our clients that pulled us into incremental markets. When I think about the five markets that we went into this year or the two countries that we're heading into with global view, they're byproduct of clients that are choosing to pay employees in certain markets. And as such, for us, a lot of times the decision we make on how to get there, has a lot to do with speed.

And as such, again, we will leverage both organic and inorganic ways to get there. So, I don't know, Don, you ran our international business for a very long time. I don't know if you want to add anything.

Yes, fair. It's a fair observation, James. Appreciate it. I think the we thought about - by the way, I wish I knew the answer, right? So the question you're asking which is how much conservatism is in there? And that's all to say and you hit the nail on the head, we set into this year guiding minus 25 to 50, we're stepping into fiscal '24 with a guide of minus 50 to 70 - and we hope - I'll end - or I'll start with, we're very happy with where things are.

We're firing on all cylinders. We have many businesses that have record MPS results, record retention results and everything is good. And so as we step into the year, the way that we are modeling what you would see in pays per control. The way we're thinking about the potential macroeconomic tempering, if you will, specifically in the back half, is really a byproduct of how we see retention.

Part of what we saw in the fourth quarter that led to the incredible results that we had was that the normalization that we've been seeing in the down-market, we did actually see the down market bounce a little bit. So even while it was down year-on-year, it came in stronger than we expected. And so we do anticipate that we may need to give some of that back, which is why we believe it was prudent to align our retention targets through our medium-term targets that we gave back in the Investor Day of 2021.

So I wish I knew the answer to your question in terms of how much conservatism, why we are guiding to what we're guiding is really about the economic outlook, whether that's GDP, unemployment is still at record lows. We haven't seen unemployment rates that low since the 60s. And so our guess is as good as yours at some level, but we did build in some tempering of the economy in the back half, and that's really what's yielding that guide on the retention.

The PEO has a tremendous value proposition. I think we always refer to ADP as an all-weather company. I would say the most durable of our all-weather businesses is the PEO. And a lot of that has to do with the ability to flex that value proposition in a downturn pretty quickly. So if you think about clients that are growing, they enjoy the PEO because it's a quick go-to-market.

On the downside, if you will, as clients are potentially trying to work through economic headwinds, the PEO serves as a place that has a clear return on investment, has a total cost of ownership that's very again, very clear. And so I think it's a business that not to suggest that it's not impacted by a downturn, but it's a business that kind of works in both.

What I would say is our sales force, we're able to pivot that narrative and that value proposition as warranted. I don't believe that has happened. So to answer the question, our clients at this point, hesitant to purchase something such as the PEO that's so comprehensive because of the macroeconomic challenges.

And my view would be, no. I think that's substantiated by the record results that we had in the PEO bookings in the quarter. We also saw that strength in bookings in the third quarter. So I think that value proposition is holding firm. And I think it's a business that should - should the economic wins ever come to life that we've been expecting for so long. It's a business that can pivot pretty quickly and the demand for the offer remains.

Thank you, and thank you, everyone, for joining today. As you've heard, Don and I, the entire leadership team we're incredibly pleased with fiscal '23, specifically the fourth quarter and the finish. So I'll kind of end where I started, which is, I want to take the opportunity to once again thank the associates that create this performance. It's an unbelievable magical thing to watch it all come together and deliver what we just delivered. And so my gratitude and I celebrate each and every one of them. I also want to thank all of the stakeholders, including all of you who listen today, appreciate the support. We're certainly excited for fiscal '24. So cheers to that.