Safra Catz
Oracle Corporation (ORCL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think we're going to take some questions. Ken?

Let me take a start at it. And Larry, you add in here. First of all, the fact that OCI is just growing and accelerating is because customers want to spend less. And they also need to do more. They need to stay competitive. They need to stay agile. And so our technology, whether it's our applications, which allow them to spend a lot less and make better decisions running their business, so that's very, very natural. So our Fusion, and there's just so many things about Fusion that are so compelling. It costs less, it just helps them run their business. But then you go to OCI, where some of these customers are coming from our competitors. And as Larry said, imagine, Larry talked about the workload being twice as fast on OCI. But imagine it's 10 times as fast, or 100 times faster, or as is common in some cases, 1,000 times faster. So imagine what that bill looks like.

So we have compelling technology at a much lower price. And that's without a doubt causing our customers to move to us more quickly. I don't know, Larry, if you want to add into that.

Okay. Well, I will tell you that there's no question. Our secret weapon is the fact that we have vertical applications also. Many of our customers end up wanting to buy a vertical application and Fusion together and it's industry by industry. We will be posting online probably some of our wins for the quarter, but what you'll see is when we have existing customers in a segment and a vertical application in that, we truly are, without a doubt, the most popular. Whether it's healthcare with all of our existing customers, whether they be Cerner customers, the fact that we have ERP and HCM, SCM, all of our horizontal applications, CX, as well as the vertical applications, it makes us very tough to beat.

New healthcare wins are going to be listed many, many, many go-lives, the same in financial services, retail, hospitality, these whole segments end up wanting to buy their entire solution from us. And that really makes us also very sensitive to their needs and we can fill them much better. So, that's been a big winner for us.

And I will tell you that our customers also, when they move from on-premise, they realize that they're moving into the 21st century with a much better system, but also a much lower cost system that also is kept current every 90 days. New capabilities become available. They'll never have to do that big implementation every five years like some of the older companies who say they're cloud, but aren't actually cloud. They're just hosted. So, our products are just so differentiated all around that we're just building momentum around the world. Go ahead.

Thank you. I actually feel like we're still at the beginning if you want to know the truth. We wanted to stabilize the operation. We definitely didn't want to risk breaking anything. You will be seeing some more significant changes and we have legal entity combination imminently and that actually gives us a lot more flexibility regarding the way we operate the business. We are just at the very beginning of it. Their margins are nowhere close to the way we run our company and we are right at the, I'd say we're at the beginning-ish, sort of at the beginning of the middle at most. We've got a long way to go on just operationally and we've got a lot of work going on on the development side as we bring our technical capabilities into the product and move them into the Oracle Cloud. There are a lot of savings as we do that also.

Thank you.

I don't know, Larry, if you want to take a stab at it. The reality is that our customers run from very small to very large. As a general matter, we're a small percentage of their IT costs when they get started and sometimes a small percentage of their cloud spending. As they try us out, they move larger percentages of their business off of other clouds or from on-premise. We're at the very beginning of this movement, especially on the database side as more and more of our customers, our big customers often have cloud a customer or dedicated regions is sort of their ultimate goal for their most critical database workloads. We're at the absolute beginning of that with most of our customers. It's basically what we find is if you give us a chance, it is so much better, so much more cost effective, of course, so much more secure that customers very quickly realize how advantageous it is to move. It's all industries. As some of you know, auto companies are doing their simulations with us. It's really across industries, across sizes. It's very, very diversified. Larry, I don't know if you have additional comments.

Yes. I mean, this past year was a big CapEx number as compared to usual. And we put out a lot of capacity. It is getting filled up, and getting used up. And I think we're getting real economies. In addition, one of the things you don't realize is that our underlying infrastructure, for example, I'll give you one example, our underlying infrastructure becomes more and more efficient, even under the best example actually is under Fusion. As we move, as we've moved to OCI, we are also moving to Autonomous Database Serverless, which again gives us added capacity. So we're constantly, constantly becoming more efficient. Our original landing was 12 racks. We're moving to 10 racks to have all the services. We're just continuing to sort of miniaturize our capabilities and it's giving us enormous efficiencies and cost savings. So staying the same as this year, again, if it just becomes overwhelming, it may go up higher, but I think we've got it very much in hand. We've laid out a lot this past year and I think if we stay where we're at, we're going to be able to fit a lot more workloads within that envelope, straightforwardly.

Thank you.