Alan Shaw
Norfolk Southern Corporation (NSC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Chris, we've committed to industry-competitive margins. And in '23, we overcame a lot. We made a lot of progress on our strategic plan. We enhanced safety, we improved service, we attracted new business, we overcame challenges. As we look into '24, it's really a focus on productivity, and we feel like we're going to be on that pathway of 100 basis points to 150 basis points a year, particularly as we get into the second half of the year and lap some of these revenue comps. But we gave a three-year outlook, but that's not an endpoint. We have talked about continuous productivity improvement as one of the three components of our balanced strategy of safe service, continuous productivity improvement, and smart growth.

Hey, Ken, with us entering the third year of a freight recession and with the investments that we've made in safety and service that are delivering meaningful results, it's clear that our cost structure is too high for our revenue base entering 2024. And so, we addressed service, we addressed safety, we addressed growth in '23. We did it in a responsible manner to protect our franchise and our shareholders. Now, as we enter 2024, we've got a much more fluid network, much safer network and network that is attracting growth, and it's a focus on productivity. And so, yeah, we're looking at every cost out there. And we're looking at discretionary costs, we're looking at management costs, and we're focused on productivity, because it is a balanced plan.

I'll let Ed talk about price.

Thank you.

Yeah, Scott, we had to overcome a lot in '23, And we made investments in a prudent manner to enhance safety, enhance service and attract growth, particularly in our most service-sensitive markets. And so, we're putting -- with respect we're putting proof points up on the Board. As we move through into the fourth quarter, we were still wrestling with a service product that was off plan, which adds complexity, adds variability and adds cost. We're operating in a really tough freight environment and we were dealing with pretty healthy year-over-year inflation, and we're still lapping some difficult comps with respect to the fuel surcharge revenue and with respect to storage revenue, right?

And mix. And so, as we move into '24, those things are going to start to unwind themselves, right? We've got a much more fluid network. We're operating on plan. That will drive out our service recovery costs. And then, after that, we're going to continue to iterate to our plan. That's going to help drive productivity, and we're going to attract new business. And as you noted, our strategy is all about outperforming during an upmarket. I don't see that in the next six months. When the economy does recover, it always does, when the freight market does recover and it always does, we're going to be called for growth.

What was the first part of your question, Amit?

Well, that's our commitment. Our commitment is industry-competitive margins and top-tier revenue and earnings growth. And we said we were going to do that through an economic cycle. We said we would have difficulty within industry-competitive margins during a trough and the freight market. And candidly, we didn't expect some of the incidents that occurred in 2023, the network disruptions, the Eastern Ohio incident, and a continuation of a very difficult truck market. We invested throughout 2023 for the long term, and in the long-term best interests of Norfolk Southern and our shareholders. And we improved service. We improved safety. Volumes grew in the fourth quarter.

Now, we can really narrow our focus, right? We can narrow our focus into productivity, and that's exactly what we're doing. And we're going to drive that by operating to the plan, a high degree of compliance to the plan, that will shed resources, that's going to shed a lot of the service recovery resources that you just referenced. As we get on plan, we'll continue to iterate the plan and look for additional ways to drive out complexity, drive out costs and improve balance.

That's where two-thirds of our operating costs are.

Paul, why don't you address the first question? I'll take the second.

And Tom, to your second question, as we've gone through 2023 and we've made the necessary improvements in safety, in service, and attractive growth, we can really start to focus on productivity in our own plan and execution of that plan. That provides benefit as well. And then, our whole strategy is about outperforming during the upcycle. Our franchise is built to outperform during the upcycle. You've seen us recover from network disruptions much faster than we have in the past. So, there's a proof point as well.

We're not calling when that upcycle occurs, but when it does, we do believe that we will outperform, and we will attract new business with high incremental margins. So, it's improving our own operations and executability with the plan as we can now narrow our focus on really operating to the plan and driving efficiencies and then participating and outperforming during the upcycle.

Brian, each franchise has unique strengths. We have committed to top-tier revenue and top-tier earnings growth, coupled with industry-competitive margins. We're going to deliver that. We've got a franchise that faces the fastest growing segments of the U.S. economy and a franchise that's poised for growth. We're entering the third year of a freight recession. That will unwind. And when it does, the enhancements that we've made to safety, the enhancements that we've made to service, the ability to attract business in the fourth quarter, and automotive and intermodal, which are our most service-sensitive markets, right, give us a pathway to success going forward and allow us to unlock our full potential. And Paul and his team and entire executive team are intently focused on driving out cost inefficiencies and driving productivity.

Ed, what do you hear from customers?

Frankly, that's one of the benefits of our franchise, right?

We've got the most powerful intermodal franchise in the East, which serves 60% of the consumers. So, no matter whether it comes in the East Coast or West Coast, we're going to handle it.

Thank you.

Mark, you want to talk about the capital program, please?

Well, I know that a faster network is a less expensive network. So, as we invest in service and we invest in resiliency, it translates to fewer recruits, fewer network disruptions, fewer -- less overtime, less equipment rents, improved fuel consumption and fuel efficiency. So yeah, that's the part of our franchise -- or pardon me, of our strategy, right, it's that balance between service, productivity and growth, and they build on each other. Thank you.

Thank you, Allison.

Look, it's a balanced approach, and we overcame a lot of Norfolk Southern specific headwinds in 2023. And we enter 2024 with a safer network, a more fluid network and a network that is attracting business from our most service-sensitive customers. Once we get through this freight recession, and we will, we are poised for outperformance during the upcycle. That is the essence of our strategy. We're doing what we laid out at our Investor Day 14 months ago. And I'm proud of the way that we've overcome these obstacles in 2023 and set the stage for margin improvement in 2024, while protecting the best long-term interest of our shareholders and the Norfolk Southern franchise.

[Bascome] (ph), we've given you a roadmap for the next three years on how we're going to narrow the gap with our peers with respect to margin. Our commitment is industry-competitive margins. We've given you an outline of where we're headed based where we see markets. If there's more lift in the freight market, then I fully expect we're going to outperform, because our investments in safety and service and our ability to attract growth in the fastest-growing markets and the most service-sensitive markets are going to yield outsized benefits to Norfolk Southern and our shareholders during an upcycle But we're not calling that yet.

Thank you for joining us today.