Andrew Clyde
Murphy USA Inc. (MUSA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Bobby.

Absolutely. Bobby, one of the things that we always look closely at is what's the fuel margin requirement from those stores, what's the coverage ratio, et cetera. And then, look, the reality is, if you see deals that cross our desk, et cetera, from time-to-time, and you look at formats that have experimented maybe with food and beverage in a different way, where they got maybe higher revenue and margins, but they drove up their cost significantly.

And frankly, even some of the bigger-box chains that have come out onto the market that didn't have the distinctive food and beverage capabilities of QuickChek, or the density of the consumer base that, translates into the velocity. You know what we found? We actually found that those other formats, including the other bigger ones, actually require more fuel, to cover the breakeven requirement than less.

And what that means is that 2,800 square foot store, is really at the sweet spot, right? We haven't tried to jump the chasm or two chasms all the way to where a distinctive QuickChek offer would be. But we're able to innovate within that box, and it just makes us more and more competitive, because we are adding more revenue, and margin and contribution, from the things we're adding with less labor.

And so, our breakeven just gets lower. And so, from a slightly higher OpEx at the store, the thing we really look at, is how much is that net expanding. And we continue to expand that, especially relative, to a lot of other players in the industry. I hope that addressed your question.

Yes. So look, as Mindy highlighted, I mean, tobacco sales continue to lead. We continue to take share there. The price, the value, the offer that we're providing, just becomes more and more relevant, as customers seek out affordability. We're growing premium tobacco products, but the discounted ones have a higher penny profit, and we're growing those as well.

The new noncombustible products have a higher margin, and we're best positioned to lead in that trend towards the lower-risk products. So on a two-year stack basis, tobacco sales are incredible for us relative to the industry. Cooler Vault [ph] is a great one. We're on a two-year stack. We're up 12% in sales. Food and beverage is up 6.4%. Unpacking that a little bit further.

If we're generating $113 million of contribution from food and beverage in 2023, Murphy is generating now $10 million of that, and it's up almost 90%, meaning we turned around a category that was not adding anything to the business. And so, from a total enterprise standpoint, we generated about $10 million of contribution in food and beverage for Murphy, leveraging the insights, the capabilities, et cetera, since the spin.

So across the categories, we just continue to see innovation growth. I can talk more about the digital transformation efforts, and what we're seeing there as well, but that's probably our highest returning investment that we're making, across the business right now, and it's going to be highly impactful, on the merchandise side.

Thank you.

Good morning.

Yes. So when you - sorry, just for clarity, when you say we're more reliant on the fuel margin, what do you exactly mean by that? So I can answer your question specifically.

Yes. Okay. I got it. So what would be really interesting, is if we just held the business constant, and we projected what the EBITDA would be at $0.16 margins back in 2019, half of that. We didn't drive the industry margins to be $0.32. The marginal retailer did, right? And we took that advantage. We put a lot of it on the Street to grow share and sustain volumes, which is why our volumes are up, as Mindy talked about, versus the industry.

So what I would encourage you and investors to do is say, hi, input $0.16 per gallon in there back to 2019. And then look at the incredible growth on the merchandise side, of the business since then, and its contributions towards EBITDA. I think that's the best way to look at it. Is the EBITDA growth more reliant on fuel? I guess, right? Because the margins just keep going up. We don't want them to go down.

But that's certainly not slowing down, the increase that we're seeing on total merchandise contribution. In our remarks, we noted the total contributions grown from a 6% CAGR, to a 7% CAGR, now an 8% CAGR. And a big chunk of that is, because of the higher fuel margins and us taking a portion of that, and investing it to drive traffic that comes into the store.

And then, frankly, using some of that contribution to make other investments like our digital investments that, are all about in the early stages driving merchandise. So, we're not relying on in the sense that we need it like the others with a zero breakeven. But versus 2019, if you model the business at $0.16. I think you'd say, wow, the merchandise side of the business has done incredibly well.

No. Our expectation is our fuel volumes will be up slightly. The raise and rebuilds and the new store activity will more than offset the flat to slightly declining legacy stores. So our expectation is they will be up slightly, and we will continue the same pricing strategies that, position us as the bottom of market, everyday low-price retailer.

Thank you.

Yes. So look, when we present our kind of three to five-year outlook in our raise the bar chart, we always show, look, here's where we expect EBITDA to grow through growth initiatives, slight changes in fuel margin. And then we kind of set an expectation of buying back about 1 million shares a year. It's exactly what we did last year without really impacting the balance sheet.

And so, we're going to take advantage of the free cash flow. If we have additional free cash flow in years like 2022, we'll use that to buy back more. And if we fall short, because of the margin environment, or capital growth opportunities present themselves. We won't hesitate to tap the balance sheet, to make that commitment. I don't know if - Mindy, if you want to add any other thoughts around the balance sheet.

Great.

Yes. So, I don't have the specifics around the individual components here. There's always going to be this challenge, when you're growing tobacco faster than your competitors, you've got a unit margin reduction. As we said before, we don't take unit margin to the bank. We take contribution margin dollars to the bank. And so, that's usually the biggest driver there.

There could be some mix within some of the other center of the store categories, promotional activity, et cetera. As we think about 2024, we expect to see really a lot more of the same. But we're going to get the full year benefit of the price increases at QuickChek on food and beverage, where we were a very intentional last year, in terms of holding price, to demonstrate value to our customers.

And if any of you also look at the earnings reports, from the major QSR chains, they're now recognizing that they probably may have taken, a little bit too much price, and they're talking about value. And for us, value never goes out of style and we need to deliver that every day. So, I do think we'll see some improvement this year on that front. One of the things that I haven't talked about is the investment in G&A in terms of the impact from the digital transformation efforts.

The G&A spend from that is, in the neighborhood of $40 million across the initiative, and some of its being capitalized. But just in terms of the pilots that we've already run, we're seeing a 20-plus percent return on that investment on an annualized basis. And those pilots have all exceeded what we estimated on paper. When you take the initiatives that we've completed, and analyzed that are now going into pilot.

We expect a return on that to be north of 40%. And a significant amount of that is going into the merchandise contribution, right? So, it might be getting that additional upsell at QuickChek that's, more than doubled. It's that incremental contribution from the production planning. It's that share of wallet, from the personalization on the Murphy side. We've segmented our stores and identified where we can take price.

And where we want to be a little bit more aggressive, across the entire center of the store that's generating benefits beyond that's generating benefits beyond expectations. So, there's just a whole host of things within those initiatives that, we're going to see, are going to not only start to pay early dividends in 2024, but provide the foundation to sustain that type of growth, into the future. And there's elements of the program, like the updated QuickChek rewards, et cetera, that will be coming in the near future as well.

Good morning.

Yes. So Ben, look, what I would say is when you think about our volume and our margin, you really got to break those two apart and then break each of those volume and margin components into pieces. So, if we have flat macro demand, plus or minus 1%, right, that's kind of the first indication of how our stores are going to do. We're going to have a massive recession or we going to have something like COVID.

Or we're going to have economic growth, or prosper or something that drives that up. That's going to be the first indication of what we're able to do. And then secondly, where do we price? And we're going to price everyday low price. And so, I think you're right, as our differential to the competition, is going to be the biggest determinant of that. And with the higher structural margins that we've seen.

We've been able to put an extra $0.01, or so on the Street. We kept it on the Street in '23, and that allows us to certainly offset any competitive pressures from new builds, because other good competitors are building new stores, like we are. And in that environment, you would think, okay, well, flat volumes, flat margins. But margins are going up largely, because of the structural regions we've been talking about, right?

The marginal player doesn't have the scale, to invest in the things that we're doing, doesn't have the extra penny to put on the Street. Their trade-off at the top of the market, they take a $0.01 in profit, lose 4% volume. They're almost kind of neutral to that. And by the way, go ahead and put it up $0.02 if you have to, to offset some of the other traffic losses. So, it's really that factor that allows us, to get both volume and margin.

And then after that, it would just be structurally, what is going on in the price environment, right? 2022 was a much more volatile environment, and we benefited both volume and margin in that scenario. 2023 was a fairly benign environment. It didn't hurt us volumetrically, and we actually still did even better than we expected on the margin side, but I would attribute that largely to the marginal player in that structural dynamic.

And so, there's nothing to read into strategy, like one of the earlier questions, about us changing our price/volume equation. We will be everyday low price. We will take our advantage and put it on the Street for the benefit of our consumers, who need us now more than ever. And that helps begin this virtuous cycle, or flywheel that flows through to traffic inside the store.

The benefits we have there, the free cash flow to invest in growth, and new capabilities and then, of course, get back to our shareholders. So, I hope that answers your question, but we are not doing anything that would signal, hi, we're doing anything different from a price/volume equation strategy.

It is. And Ben, for kicks, I thought about doing sort of the fuel breakeven calculation, but putting fuel in the numerator and tobacco in the denominator, to kind of get the same-type equation. And it's exactly the same. It's a commodity that has the same type of elasticity. And so, if you go back to Q1 of 2019, our bulk cigarettes, carton was 45%. You know, it peaked almost at 60%, but it's still up 10 percentage points, right?

So, people are buying more in bulk from us at our stores. We've applied the same strategy to smokeless. And also the way we think about, say, cigars in terms of how we promote and price those. And if you look at the discount on a per-pack, per-roll, per-stick basis, those have increased also. As we've been able to take promotional funds as well as profit from other parts of the business, to invest in that to grow that share.

And so, while cigarette share has grown, smokeless share and cigar share has grown even more significantly, as a result of applying those same types of price/volume trade-offs in that category. And similarly, we see a lot of the marginal competitors behaving the same way in that category as they do in the fuel category, very analogous categories.

Yes. So look, on the unit growth, we've expressed our disappointment there. I mean it's just been a variety of issues. Some of its permitting, some of it is labor issues with general contractors. We've had stores where we've expected utilities to hook up, and you wait a month, or longer for the utilities to show up. I mean it's very frustrating, to say the least. And when I talk to industry peers and as well as other retail small-box retail peers.

They're experiencing the same thing. Our confidence lies in the fact that we're just building up the pipeline faster. And so, you're going to have to start more projects or on a risk-adjusted basis, to be able to finish more projects within the calendar year. So it's just a simple exercise of loading up more into the queue, knowing the average QuickChek store has gone from taking four years to five years; Murphy store from contract completion, two years to three years.

And one of the things we talked about as well, is we've improved our time by about six months with our general contractors, by providing a set of incentives, you think carrots and sticks. The challenge now is, we've lost all of that six months plus some, because there's not an incentive for them, to invest in over time, expediting, et cetera, because there will be something else outside of their control.

That would impact their ability, to deliver on time, or ahead of time. And therefore, earn an incentive bonus that, would more than make up for the overtime, or the expediting cost. And so, I'd like to think some of that will return to normal, but we're not counting on it. So, we're just loading up the queue, and staffing up for that, more than we had in the past.

Great. Well, thank you, everyone, for listening in. As I said, we're really excited about the 2023 results the team delivered. But we've got even more excitement about what lies ahead, and we hope more of the same is good for all our Murphy USA investors. Thank you.