Antonio Neri
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HPE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, thanks, Mike. This is Antonio. So pretty much all the orders are in the HPC and AI segment, the vast majority. We saw now in Q4 some uptick in demand in the what I call the traditional compute. But what you have to think about it is AI is a life cycle, right? training to tuning to inferencing. And the products we talk here, whether it's HPE Cray, XD or EX really are on the training side and the tuning side. And so when I think about the type of customers, I think about the model builders, right? So these are unique customers that in the past with generally, we have talk about it. Think about companies like Recussion, Pharmaceutical, Cruso energy, obviously, large language models like Aleph Alpha, Tiger Data or Northern Data, Geo Research and the like. These are big mobile builders, and they need a large amount of computational power.

Now when we start seeing as an uptick in the tuning side with enterprises, because generally, they don't tend to build models. They tend to leverage foundation models in the open source or some of these companies provide and then they tune those models with their data, but they want to do it in a private secure and obviously sustainable way. And that's why we have made announcements with NVIDIA, and you can see further announcements later in the week. And then AI inferencing, I call it for using a sport analogy, singles and the doubles, right? So these are maybe a server with eight GPUs or accelerated resorts where they start deploying these models, they have been trained attuned into production and think about where their real-time processing data happen where business transformation takes place or maybe doing some sort of POC or pretraining experiments.

And so now we start seeing that increasing. But the vast majority of compute is still CPU centric, and we saw some uptick in the GPUs. But the vast majority of all the APUs that we talked about are in the traditional high density for training and tuning, and that's where our HPE Cray set of platforms plays a big role. And obviously, they also find its way to supercomputing at large scale that we have talked about from TRL Capital and in Aurora, [Indiscernible] and Norsk and the like. Anything you want to add?

Yes. Thanks, Jeremy. And again, only 10% of the POs were consumed in Supercompute rest was all in AI. Okay, thank you, Mike.

Yes. Thanks, Wamsi. I'm going to talk about demand and then Jeremy can talk about revenue margin, which we were very clear that right, what to expect. Obviously, we have driven a significant growth over the last two years. I think it was the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth. That's very impressive, we added $2 billion of revenue in the last 2 years. And obviously, that came with an expanded set of gross margins because of our software and subscription-based models that we have been driving.

Traditionally, we think about that has been in the campus and branch, where in our switching or Wi-Fi. But more and more lately, obviously, it's all software-driven and as well as expansion into the new times we discussed at the Security Analyst Meeting, including SD1 and security to create the SSC framework or the SASE framework we talked about it. And going forward, we are also going to add the private 5G, which we discussed. And let's not forget, we have been also gaining momentum in the data center with our offers, which are an extension of our switching portfolio in the data center.

So definitely was a quarter-over-quarter slight decline in orders for demand for products in the campus and branch, but we saw strong demand in the software in the security space. And that's why at the securities and analyst meeting with Phil, we talked about this multiple ad adjacency we have add to the platform, and they are all incorporated into the HPE Aruba Central platform, which is part of HPE GreenLake.

So again, we are committed to grow revenues next year on the higher pace that we created, again, on the $5.2 billion we just delivered. Albeit you should not expect a 40% growth, obviously. And that's why I want to have Jeremy talk about what we are affirming here in terms of revenue and as well as margins.

Yes, sure. I mean no question, we see an explosion in demand in AI. Jeremy just comment on that. And I will say, of that order book that Jeremy just talked about in Q4, [Indiscernible] little was converted in AI. And to the point he made the growth we had in Q4 was driven by the supercomputer acceptances. But we have a very, very large pipeline in front of us, which is very exciting but ultimately it's going to come down to time to revenue based on the GPU availability. But I will say that business is going to continue to be super strong.

And clearly, when I speak to customers, which I do more than 50% of my time there is a huge amount of interest in AI and how to accelerate the deployment of a higher cost enterprise, understand that there are challenges, whether it's sustainability challenges, where there are data center capacity, power and cooling and others. And that's why HPE went bold on that front last June to basically make the announcement we're going to offer supercomputing as a public cloud instance so customers can use it as a virtual private cloud. So that we feel very good about it.

Green Lake continued to be very strong. Just to be in a context, we added $1 billion in TCV quarter-over-quarter. We added 2,000 customers, and ARR obviously, is a function of the deferred revenue that we materialize over time, but what customers really love about our experience is that it's hybrid by design. They can consume anything from Edge to cloud to HPE GreenLake, where they pay CapEx or OpEx, it doesn't really matter in the end. But they really love the experience. And that's why we're building the AI components into the same platform. So those are two very strong.

Edge obviously had tremendous momentum. I think we're going to have the typical adjustments, but that's why we spend a lot of energy and time on adding more capabilities to the edge platform security as one private 5G data center networking, which adds to the momentum, understanding there will be potentially some digestion in the campus and branch. But as Jeremy said, we have very well covered for the first half of 2024. So we have to see that.

And then compute, right, is a typical business that goes through this cyclicality, right? So last year, obviously, we had a huge amount of orders we converted the order faster than people expected. And in the back half of this year, we saw sequential demand improvements in units and stable AUPs. And now we start seeing upticks in the mix with AI inferencing, which has these accelerators. But Q3 demand was higher than Q2 and Q4 was higher than Q3. So I think it's fair to say we are stabilized, and we are improving. I would not call it yet a recovery.

And on storage, I believe we're going to see some improvements over time because of AI demand, which require file and object and we have a great portfolio with HPE Eletra, and we intend to capitalize on that. But for three consecutive quarters now, we have seen stability and improvement. And in Q4, we saw revenue improvements on a sequential basis. So customers are prioritizing the spend where it makes sense, but ultimately we have a portfolio that can meet their needs, wherever they are and HPE GreenLake is the way we deliver all of this which ultimately for shareholders drives higher margins and higher reported revenues and profit. Sorry?

Cannibalization. Sorry, Jeff, remind me, cannibalization. We have no evidence of that yet. I think that will become clear when the traditional compute CPU-driven returned to some normal levels. But remember, not every customer has deployed cloud across that enterprise. Still quite a bit of journey to go. And there are clear customers assessing what is the best place to deploy that, whether it's in a power cloud or whether it's repatriating on-prem because of the cost or because of data.

I think AI is a huge driver of repatriation in my mind because if you have data distributed across multiple states, it's very hard to really train and fine-tune the models when you have data everywhere. And our focus there is really providing them an automated data pipeline with our unified analytics platform. So fundamentally, it's early to say. But so far, in the traditional compute business, we have not seen evidence of cannibalization at this point in time.

Yes. Thanks, Simon. Again, maybe I will elaborate a little more to the comments I made before. So we saw Q4 over Q3 and Q3 over Q2 improvement in demand in units. And a lot of that was CPU-driven. Although there is a small base of AI accelerated kind of APUs, if you will, that we saw an increase in Q4. But I will say the unit growth in Q4 was not driven by the APUs, it was driven by a combination of CPUs, the vast majority and some APUs because the base is still very, very small.

So definitely, customers are preparing for that. Again, they are all assessing what is the best place to deploy this model. That's why I do believe the inferencing side will accelerate over time, where we have to do some pre-training or POCs or really deploying in production. And I think many customers also will accelerate deployments of tuning solutions on-prem because of the data aspect I talked before. No question is still digesting what they bought last time on the CPU side of the house. But again, we saw some improvements in demand sequentially in units.

And then let's remind ourselves that we also, for us, in the industry. We are going to the transition of Sapphire Rapids. And ultimately, we call that the Gen 11 platform. That became now, what, Jeremy? 25% of the mix which...

53% of the orders in Q4, 25% of the revenue mix. And so that's good for us because, obviously, it drives higher density and obviously, we can attach more options to the same platform. And customers like the sustainability piece of that and the hybrid by design nature of that, which is actually well optimized. And Gen 11, by the way, was conceived to accept any type of processing unit, whether it's a CPU, but it's an APU, including ARM-based solutions or GPU-based solutions. Whether it's in tail on the X86. So that gives us tremendous amount of flexibility.

But ultimately, it's not just about the server. It's the software that comes with it. And this is where we spend a lot of time building the partnerships and relationships with NVIDIA. So now you can deploy a tuning or inferencing with the NVIDIA stack and our software as well, all part of HPE GreenLake.

I will say also, if you look at our HP Electra product, it's the fastest ramp we ever had in the history of the company. This quarter, this past quarter grew another 50%. But also there is some short-term impact because a portion of that revenue gets deferred because the subscription is softer on the platform. And so that was an intentional strategy because ultimately, the infrastructure is one piece of it, but the operating system and the cloud services that comes with it are actually a subscription to HPE GreenLake.

So while we're growing 50%, we are not materializing the full revenue because a portion of that gets deferred at least to over three years. And that's good because ultimately it comes to a significant higher margins for us. But our strategy is to dramatically improve the mix to IT. And you will see more announcement this week in the storage portfolio, all geared to the AI opportunity. We file an object and that will accelerate some of the momentum we have in the storage portfolio.

Let's do one more. Thanks Gary, please. Maybe just one more question.

No, great question. And I will say, overall, there is a lot of complementary and there are some places overlap, obviously. But with Jens and the team, we have a clear joint plan to win together in different segments of the market. But let me break it out because we talk about software in general terms, but let's start first at the infrastructure level. we have unique software that allows us to run these supercomputers and AI system, which are cloud native by nature at massive scale.

Think about when you run a model you need to start and complete the mobile training. And you have to have unique technologies for checkpoints and making sure that all the compute power is acting as unified system because unlike the public cloud or the cloud, as we know it, you are multiple loads on multiple nodes. In this case, you run one world nodes on multiple nodes. And that's parallel computing as we know it. And ultimately, you need the software to run this at scale.

The magic around that is that checkpoint. And then the second piece of that is our networking interconnect fabric which allows us to really connect every accelerated unit to every accelerated unit in a cohesive approach. And that's our Slingshot contingent fabric as we know it. And then on top of that, we have our machine learning development environment. This is where developers and the like use our machine learning development services. to prepare the models to automate the data pipeline. One of the biggest challenges customers have is to prepare the data, data is everywhere, but ultimate bringing in terms sort of one place so you can use data to train the models.

And then with NVIDIA, we use their AI enterprise software, including some of the foundation models that they provide order to provide a complete solution. And obviously, we leverage their APUs, call it, GPUs, whether it's H-100-L40-OL4S, A100s in the past and going forward as the announcement we made a supercomputing 2023 in Denver, we are leveraging the grace over Edge 200. So it's a combination, depending on the use case. And we feel pretty good about what we're doing and stay tuned because Thursday, we're going to make further announcements about our partnership with NVIDIA. But it's RAP and IP that makes us together unique and differentiated in the AI space.

Okay. Well, thank you, everyone. I will appreciate always the time. I know you're busy cover in all the earnings, but I will say just to wrap in fiscal year 2023. Clearly, we demonstrated our strategic investments and the extraordinary innovation across the growth areas of edge, hybrid cloud and even compute for the matter are really resonating with customers. and is helping us tolerate revenue growth and profit diversification. That's why you see the growth in gross margin and profit.

And I believe we will continue to capitalize on this growing market opportunities. And I'm confident to continue to increase the returns to our shareholders. And that's why we are raising the dividend for 2024. So thank you for your time today. I wish you all fulfilling end of the calendar year and a special holiday season. Talk to you soon.