Bill Rhodes
AutoZone, Inc. (AZO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Bret.

It's a terrific question, Bret. And there's a lot of different elements as you would expect. Again, we are not satisfied with our commercial growth at this level. And we're going to change that, and we're encouraged about the direction that we're heading. I think part of it Bret is a comparison versus last year. You mentioned in-stocks. Last year, 18 months ago, we got very aggressive with some key categories and a lot of merchandise, when frankly a lot of our less sophisticated competitors were not in great in-stock positions.

As we're beginning to lap that significant outsized growth last year, that's certainly a challenge for us. And we're beginning to get past that point in time. We also mentioned that we've had some challenges in the Midwest and Northeast, particularly with under cart categories, and particularly in commercial where we just didn't have that winner that we so desperately want and need. And we've suffered in those under cart categories.

That's a great question. We've been in Mexico for nearly 25 years now. There's just not great data there, Bret. And so you don't have the terrific kind of information that we get from the Auto Care Association. So we don't have great data down there. We're working to try to see if we can get some better data. But what we know is we've been in Mexico now, as I said, almost 25 years and we continue to grow significantly and think that we have a lot of growth left in front of us, not just in new stores but on same store sales.

There are still categories where we are massively under penetrated, there are still categories we don't participate in at all. And as we learn more about that business, we're continuing to grow. Same things happened in Brazil. We're just much earlier in Brazil.

I think in Mexico, clearly the car basis is older, and there's a lot of U.S. cars, there's also a lot of Mexico manufactured vehicles. Brazil is very different in that the size of the vehicles and in particularly, the engine sizes in Brazil are massively smaller. I mean, if you have a two liter engine in Brazil, that's a big car. Many of them are 1.4 liters and the like. So we still got a lot to learn in Brazil. But we're excited about where we are. We believe we see a path to great success, but we're still losing money there. We got to fix that over the next couple of years.

Absolutely is still the goal. Keep in mind, we still have pretty low share in that, 4.5% range or so. So we're under share. And we think there's still tremendous opportunity for us to gain share. Like we said, we're not happy with our performance in the Q4 timeframe. We do feel like we're exiting the quarter at a higher rate, and we believe will continue to improve from this point forward. But we're not back to where we want to be. But we do see line of sight to getting back to that double digit growth over time.

Well, like I said, we talked, in Q3 or Q4 that our execution in the commercial arena wasn't where we expected it to be. And we've been working on that. We saw that performance and the execution levels improve as we worked through Q4. We're not finished yet. We'll frankly, never be finished. Execution is a long term strategy. But we continue to get better. And we think we continue to improve our business model. Like we said, we've opened up more hubs, more mega hubs. We continue to strengthen our store side assortments. And we're also continuing to leverage the technology enhancements that we've made over the last couple of years.

And those will continue to mature. And we're not standing still. That technology enhancements will continue as we move through this next year.

Now on the execution -- thanks for the question. On the execution, I think if you go back to the pandemic, and some of the challenges of the pandemic, we obviously struggled with in-stock. We struggled with staffing, as everybody did. And we struggled with store level execution. Our primary objectives were keep our AutoZoners safe, take care of the customers, keep our stores in-stock.

Nothing, there wasn't any -- this big one area that got broken. It was a lot of little things. And at AutoZone, we expect to operate executionally solid every single day. We didn't achieve that. We're continuing to work on that. And we're taking off the execution marks to get back to flawless execution day in and day out. That frankly, takes time and it will continue to improve. We liked the improvements we saw in Q4. I wouldn't say we're done. We think there's still opportunities to improve and we'll continue down that path. It's just part of our culture. Execute flawlessly.

Yeah. So the first point I'll make on inflation is that, we've been comping hyperinflation relative to our store industry trends for quite some time now. And so as inflation has sort of moderated and faded to sort of the normal rates, those are the dynamics that we've been experiencing. As it relates to our business moving forward, we expect inflation to be in the low-to-mid single digit range that will impact our tickets. On the DIY side, as we've said, we've historically seen transaction counts decline kind of low single digits, if you will.

And so we expect to be operating our business closer to historic norms moving forward. In terms of the macro environment, and how that's played out from an inflation standpoint. We haven't seen to this point, sort of a wobble from the consumer. We think it's been a two-speed world for a while where the low end consumer has been under some pressure, but consumers that have higher incomes have been doing well. And the net result of that is our business on the DIY side has been very, very resilient.

Yeah, thank you, Liz. We think we're going t o get a great return basically, in all three countries, whether that be urban environments or rural environments. And I go back to when you're running a ROIC of 50%, that shows that we can get really good returns. Yes, we're making this announcement when construction costs are higher, interest rates are higher and on and on. We're making decisions that are 40-year decisions. And we believe we've got a long runway for opening significant amounts of new stores. And once we finished that strategic review back in June, we made the decision that we're going to accelerate and get back to 500 stores a year.

Now remember, that'll be between 3% and 3.5% organic store growth. So it's not like we're talking about going to 10% growth. We think having something that's growing in that range makes a lot of sense for the long term.

Well, it's certainly a tale of two countries. We are losing money in Brazil. We haven't disclosed specifics in Mexico, but I'll just say that we are very pleased with the profitability profile, and particularly the return profile in Mexico.

Thank you.

Yeah, the 7%, just to be clear, was a total growth in those last four weeks of the quarter. So it improved over the quarter timeframe. I'd like to forecast that we're going to improve from there. It could be bumpy. Nothing's a straight line. I'll tell you, if you think about the weather performance over the quarter, like we said, the beginning parts of the quarter, the first month of May and June, were particularly cool and wet. And although that had probably a more material impact on the DIY side of the business, it impacts commercial as well.

And as it got hot, you see those bigger ticket categories, like per se, air conditioning, for example. Those are big categories and big jobs. And as you get those failures due to heat, it helps the comps and the total growth. So we think that weather story will help us a little bit. The hot summer will help us as we move through the beginning of Q4. And then we'll move into a normal weather pattern as we as we go through Q2 and the rest of the year.

Yeah, we don't have terrific data on that. Obviously, we're in our commercial customer shops all the time. And we're hearing the same things. Frankly, we've been hearing it since about February that car counts are down, particularly for people that are in the tire business. And as you know, when a technician takes off a tire, it provides a whole another opportunity for sales. You get a chance to see what's going on with the braking systems and chassis systems and the like.

So we don't have a great history on what are the exact members, but we think it is -- has been a softer environment. I think some of that has to do with the economic challenges that we're seeing. We haven't operated in the commercial business at this level for a long period of time. So we don't know the cycles like we do in the DIY business. But I think our belief is when economic pressures happen we get trade down from DIY to DIFM or sorry, from DIFM to DIY in certain cases. And I suspect that's what we're experiencing now.

How long will that last? You tell me what the economic cycle is going to look like. And again, we have a lot of discussions about short term sales performance. Our focus is not on the short term sales performance. Our focus is on what are we doing in our business to make our business better competitively? And how are we going to grow sales and share profitably over the long term?

You want me to do Jamere's performance review in public?

So I'll add that I do think, like we said earlier, we have -- we grew share exponentially over a couple of years. And part of that was because our in-stock position was massively better, certainly than our WD competitors. I think we've ceded some of that share back to them as they've gotten back in-stock.

I think we're beginning to cycle it now. But as you said, it's going to take some time not every category was the same, not everyone competitor was the same. So we'll probably be dealing with it for six more months but we probably past the height of it.

Thank you.

Thanks, Scot. I think the answer is there's not one single thing. I think we tried to make that clear. We -- as we've said, for the last two quarters, we were operating differently during the pandemic. Everybody had to operate differently. Because we were having to make decisions on the fly every day. As we've come out of the pandemic, we've lost a few of our disciplines. These are things like writing the right schedule. We've experienced exceptionally high turnover. We don't have the same level of, of experience in our stores that we had then.

And we've just got to get back to making sure that we're dotting the I's and crossing the t's. And we're delivering parts on time, that we've got the right hand stock levels, and on and on and on. There is not one major thing. These are thousand paper cuts. That has been the hallmark of this organization. I put our execution up against anybody. And we weren't as sharp as we needed to be, and we're making those improvements today.

I think that that is the biggest change that we're making. But that's not the sole thing that we're doing. Phil mentioned that we got a lot of technology that we've deployed in the commercial business. Over the last six months we've really refined that technology. And we're excited about what it means. We have two or three major technological enhancements that are coming in the first quarter or two this year, specifically in the commercial business that are all focused on how do we execute better? How do we decrease delivery times? How do we make sure that we're delivering the right parts at the right time? And we're excited about that.

All right. Thank you. All right. Before we conclude the call, I want to take a moment to reiterate we believe our industry is in a strong position. And our business model is solid. We're excited about our growth prospects for the year but we will take nothing for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives. We have exciting plans that should help us succeed for the future. But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.

As we continue to focus on the basics and strive to optimize shareholder value for the future, we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful. Thank you for participating in today's call. Have a great day.