Bill Demchak
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (PNC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Look, we're fairly neutral to the -- for our NII forecast toward as a function of rate cuts or not. So the outcome ought to be the same.

I think if there's variance anywhere, it's going to be on our assumptions as it relates to deposit betas, the continued shift to interest bearing versus non-interest bearing and ultimately, the steepness of the yield curve, the rates at the long end of the curve as opposed to the front end of the curve. We've tried to be to the best of our ability a little bit on the conservative side of all of those things and we feel pretty good about where our forecast is.

So as we pointed out, we do see NII going down in the first half of the year, troughing around the time of the cuts and then growing from there and beyond. So think about where we are now, go down on a bit and then grow back to where we are now. And then in '25 what gives us a lot of confidence around record NII is we will get the compounded effect of the repricing of our fixed rate assets as that continues into '25. So that's what we laid out a month ago and that's still what we think.

Well, not on charge-offs. We think we're reserved correctly. But you have to remember that as these loans go to NPL and eventually if we have charges against them, we'll charge them off. It won't run through P&L because we've already created a reserve for it, but the work set on actually maturing the loans and dealing with the outcome is yet to come.

We don't compete with them head-to-head with the types of loans that are typically -- and because we don't play that that much in the unsecured leverage space. Most of the decline at Signature we saw was in utilization. As we go forward, more and more of the lending markets are moving into private hands and longer term that is of a concern if they kind of move up scale in what they do. We do serve them. I would say that our client base, just call it, private equity or private managers at large, they're probably our largest clients between what we do with and for them from Harris Williams and Solebury and business credit and treasury management with their portfolio companies and on and on and on. So they are good clients. And I guess, at the margin, we could end up competing with them in certain things.

Yes.

So remember, the charge-offs don't hit P&L. There seems to be a lot of confusion on that. The provisions we take hit P&L. And we've provided for our best expectation of future charge-offs in a scenario that assumes a mild recession. So if our scenario comes true, we're fully reserved for everything that might happen to us. Charge-offs will flow through but not hit our P&L because they're effectively neutralized against the debit to the provision.

There always seems to be some confusion on that, but does that make sense?

So it's a mechanical calculation that's dependent on our view of the economy at the time. So if you got to a place where the charge-offs occur and somehow we thought the economy was worse than our current expectation, we would be providing for the remainder of the portfolio at a higher level than we are today, but right now we don't expect that to happen. So if the economy is worse, simply put, if the economy is worse than a mild recession, then you would expect our total reserve to increase.

We'll answer the easy question first. 8.2 would be too low, I think, in this new environment, assuming Basel III endgame goes so we'd run some higher number than that for certain. There does appear to be substantial commentary on the proposal such that I would expect that if it isn't reproposed, there still would be some relief in certain asset categories and risk weighted assets and maybe on operating risk capital, we'll see. Having said that, we don't know. So at the moment, what we know is we're going to continue to grow earnings. We're going to accrete AOCI back into our capital base and we're going to pull that 8.2% up. We think we have flexibility inside of that to be active in the share repurchase market between now and then and the more certainty we have, the more certain will be and explicit on what we might buy back during a given period of time.

I don't know that we expect it to be deeper. We purposely drew the line to be a little bit thick because we don't know exactly when that trough might occur. I think all of the commentary on '25 is in some ways, mechanical. We're simply taking our fixed rate assets and replacing them at market and we know what the maturities of those assets are. So in short form, one of the reasons we highlight that and also show the steepness of the curve is our balance sheet, the fixed rate assets on our balance sheet are shorter than virtually all of our peers and at a yield level that is somewhat lower. So we have a big pickup in fixed rate earning yields sooner than I think the market expects, which is in turn what gives rise to the slope of that curve, whether it troughs in the second quarter or the first week in the third quarter or the fourth week and -- who knows…

I think that, that if you want to call it the Swoosh, I think the Swoosh is still accurate, I think. So I’d say -- what else to say, it's consistent with our guidance and it's still accurate.

I don't know that we had changes this quarter…

I mean I think we're missing your question. What are you trying to get at?

We terminated 3.6 and added some. And just to remind you, when you terminate you basically lock in a loss to the life of the original contract and we'll do that at times simply to reposition where we have exposure.

No, I was. Look, if you just look back at what happened this year on top of kind of eight or nine years of history post the financial crisis. We've seen, your words Goliath win, in terms of organic deposit share growth. That trend line has accelerated as a function of the mini crisis in March, where corporates bluntly don't necessarily trust the regulatory environment to ensure that their deposits at a bank are safe. And so we've seen those deposits flow uphill. And if you aren't a primary relationship with that corporate deeply embedded with treasury management and other services you net-net lose corporate deposits. I think when you combine that with the cost of technology, the removal of some of the tiering and regulation and capital requirements and liquidity, scale matters. I think we are -- on net benefited from the mini crisis, but just barely. And I think below us, people struggle with that conversation with corporate clients. Above us, perhaps it's easy but I think we need to move into that next level such that we are seen coast-to-coast is a ubiquitous standard brand with the quasi support that the giant banks have in terms of times of crisis. I think it's critical.

So naturally, over time, we are gaining share on our newer markets at a rapid pace. And we see that client acquisition and growth in all forms from deposits to loans to fees to so forth. I think through time, you're going to see a clear differentiation of this dynamic played out across the market. But I think there's going to be banks that are looking for strong partners, and I think we are a strong partner. I'm not going to force that issue. But I think longer term, we are a natural player in the consolidation of an industry where scale matters.

You just have to execute. I mean there's a -- which simplifies the process. If you think about what's happening in the banking industry today, there's a couple or some other issues with the large banks. But on the deposit share side, there's a couple of clear winners. There's one that probably should be over time. There's some people neutral and there's people losing. There's 5,000 banks in the country that I can take from and grow, right? That's just a longer period of time, which we will pursue than what we might see if there's inorganic opportunities when people come to the realization that they're kind of riding something down in a deteriorating franchise. I can see the trends. I know how we would react to opportunities and the trends. I know what we'll do to execute on our own, and I'm confident in that. But I’ll go all the way back, scale matters. We're going to have to play that…

I think they should look at our history is my simplest explanation. I think somebody asked that question once before, and I assure everybody, I still don't want to do math and I think the opportunities will come our way. I don't think we'll have to chase them. One of the reasons people say why am I as vocal about this as I am. And part of the reason is to make the public aware, the public being regulators, politicians, boards of other banks aware of what's happening in the banking industry and the need for consolidation. It doesn't mean I'm going to do something stupid in the pursuit of it. I just think it's going to happen.

I don't think there's a simple answer to that, because I think if you listen carefully to the various speeches that have been done that they'll talk about the recognition of the need for M&A, but they'll also talk about good mergers and bad mergers, good outcomes and bad outcomes along several metrics. So put differently, I think certain deals will get approved and others wouldn't. I think we have proven as an acquirer that we know what we're doing and that the result in institution is, in fact, stronger than the one we might acquire.

It's not -- I mean you see the credit metrics, it's not a concern in terms of customers. We've seen with the margin -- profit margins decrease with certain clients. If you look at soft inputs, surveys and so forth that are coming out of the Fed districts, the economy is definitely weakening, not at a alarming pace. It's kind of what we had expected given how tight the Fed has gotten with monetary policy. So we kind of see a mild recession. We actually see employment remaining strong through that, which ultimately is the thing that keeps the economy from going deeply into recession, just the strength of the labor market and consumer spending. So this is kind of following the path of what we thought for some period of time now.

I mean, I don't think there's going to be any structural delevering here. We're obviously seeing a lot of banks kind of on my prior point, coming to the conclusion that some of the ancillary lending activities they took on, on the back of the big stimulus, don't make sense anymore. So there's deleveraging maybe across the industry by certain groups, but not here.

On loan growth?

Well, I think at the end of the day, our generic corporate client needs to redo their facilities and the price has gone up and that will occur. I think some of the activity that we saw on the back of just really low cost of capital in the private equity markets where it kind of leverages free, that's going to go by the wayside at a higher rate environment. But if you look at the composition of our book, we're kind of the bread and butter of America. So I wouldn't expect that we would necessarily see a decline in loan growth simply because the front end of the -- [SOFR] rate is higher.

Well, there -- I mean both of those thoughts are consistent. 8.2 is too low, so we're going to grow. Whether we're growing to be in faster compliance or growing because maybe something shows up where we could use some, we're still going to grow and it's going to mute our capital return below it and otherwise might be absent the Basel III endgame changes.

There's too much up in the air. I mean, it's depending what the Fed does, look, they could have to repropose that. It could go through the elections, they could change it materially. We don't know, right? All we know is all else equal, 8.2 is probably too low. We're still burning through our AOCI, we don't think that's going to change. So we stay the course and we'll adapt based on what we learn.

It'd be pretty fast.

Look, I would tell you that we're winning more than we're losing on pitches, and that's more true today than it was pre-March. We're winning at a higher percentage just because there's more shots on goal in the new markets than we are in the old markets. So the growth there is higher, and that's -- those new markets and the fact that we have them fully staffed, including products might differentiates us in a world where total loan growth may be somewhat tepid. And importantly, we've said this for years as we go into new markets, we are not leading with credit in these new markets. Fee based growth actually outpaces our loan based growth in those markets as we cross sell into TM and other products and services. So we look at pipelines, we look at line of sight into what we have in each market. I don't know that there's any particular product that stands out as something that's growing faster than another one. It's just we're winning clients.

I think the only way that impacts us directly -- I mean that the margin may be something in business credit and as you know, we partner with a lot of the private credit guys inside of that business. And then to the extent companies are taken private, which I think is going to slow down given the cost of capital, we sometimes will lose a client to a leverage lender because they were taken private,but that's kind of…

Well, in the near term, we think the market's got ahead of itself. I think until we're clear of the outcome here we’re clear. Inflation and Fed actions, we're happy to kind of stay neutral. I think my own expectation here, Vivek, is notwithstanding what the Fed does through the course of '24 with the Fed funds rate. My expectation is you're not going to see a lot of action in the longer rate simply because of the supply calendar and the fact that inflation will have a tail and while the Fed could ease somewhat, I think inflation is still going to be running against versus their goal. We'll have a lot of issues. So long story short, we don't see a burning desire to put money to work here because we think that opportunity is going to remain and the durations we typically invest in, and probably get a little bit better just given how hot the market got post the last Fed meeting.

So again, we're kind of talking about two different universes of credit. But having said that, and I'm sure you've heard this inside of your own shop. Lending money for the sake of lending money doesn't give us an adequate return on capital. Didn't before, it doesn't now. What gives us a return on capital is the relationship, the annuity-like fees you get from TM, the additive fees you get from capital markets related activity, and price is kind of a third order effect on the return on capital we get with that client relationship. Private credit at the moment sees a return in private credit because they could put some leverage on it, and there's not a big opportunity in private equity and yields are high. And I'll chase that for a period of time. I don't know that, that's a particularly great investment through the cycle and we don't try to compete with it in that lending environment.

Thanks, everybody.

