Bob Sulentic
CBRE Group, Inc. (CBRE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I'll comment on the -- Jade on the Trammell Crow Company circumstance and then Emma can comment on the volumes, the financing volumes. We are taking on a steady stream of new land sites in Trammell Crow Company that we're underwriting at returns that we think based on current cap rates will be consistent with our historical returns in that business. This is one of the things that's really doesn't show up in any of our headlines that makes us excited about future profitability. It is true that there is some pressure in the multifamily markets based on the development that's happened over the last couple of years and the cost of leverage versus where those deals that yields those deals were developed at.

We think that is going to be self-correcting over the next couple of years. New development volume is going to come down. We're still at barely above historic levels of vacancy. I think maybe 50 basis points above historic levels, about 550 basis points of vacancy versus 5% historically. We think that is going to correct. We think the circumstance in the single-family home market with the cost of mortgages is going to drive people towards renting. And so, we are quite bullish after we get through a little tough window here in the multifamily business on where that's going to go. We're bullish about what it means for Trammell Crow Company. We're bullish about what it means for our investment management business. And we think that the volumes in our services business will be good over time, but we are going to go through as you commented from the Walker & Dunlop call, there will be a window where it's a little more difficult. That's fully contemplated by the way in the numbers that Emma gave you about our expectations for 2024. Emma, you want to add to that?

Well, it is the case that we think it has bottomed out. It obviously is below -- meaningfully below where it was occupancy is square footage per person is below where it was per employee is, below where it was in 2019. There is all kinds of anecdotal evidence around that issue, some stubbornness people coming back to the office. That's super clear.

The other thing is there's just a clear amount of pressure from companies to get their people back into the office for all kinds of reasons. What we do know and I would say anecdotal evidence in this area is not just evidence it's an avalanche of evidence. Every company that you talk to, you can't talk to a corporate that would tell you that office building occupancy, either in buildings they own or building they lease is not important to their business.

It's important to all of them. It's important to us in our business. And so what you're seeing is that people are redoing their space, trying to make it a better environment for their employees, make their employees more efficient, more engaged. Class A buildings that create that opportunity are seeing in a number of markets record rents. Buildings that aren't good are struggling and they're going to continue to struggle.

So we look at that circumstance, and we say there's pressure on both sides, but we think it's kind of stabilized. We think it will be a very big asset class going forward, bigger than the headlines might suggest because people tend to like negative news. And in the real estate services business, as opposed to the real estate owning businesses and we're in both of them. It's going to be a very large opportunity for CBRE, and you saw that with the Brookfield situation that we announced. You see that with the growth in our outsourcing business. You're seeing it come through in our leasing numbers. So I think that you're going to see the future be better than the current circumstance has been for a variety of reasons.

We're -- well, Jade, you're talking about the blurred lines between real estate and infrastructure and some regard. And in those areas data centers and so forth we do have meaningful exposure.

The places where we have kind of traditionally defined infrastructure exposure or with the Turner & Townsend business where they provide a lot of program and project and cost consulting services to infrastructure-type projects and they are really well-positioned for the future in that regard.

We have an infrastructure investment management business that we would like to scale over time. And then in Trammell Crow Company, we do a variety of development. There are some things we're working on that are quite large between Trammell Crow Company and Turner & Townsend that would be in the infrastructure category. So, we believe over time we'll evolve to a place where we will do more work and invest more in infrastructure, but real estate is our core business for the time being.

M&A work is a fundamental foundational element of what CBRE is about. We are committed across all of our lines of business to be a grower. We have built within our market-facing businesses capability to identify M&A opportunities in all of our businesses.

We clearly have some places we're more interested in at any given point in time typically because they're secularly favored because we have more of a right to win but it is fundamental and if you look across our business, our people are in the market identifying opportunities at all times.

We have built up our M&A capability in the center our corporate development capability to the point where we think it's quite unique within our sector and is relatively strong against the broader base of companies out there outside our sectors -- are outside our sector.

We have a strong balance sheet and willingness to use that balance sheet to do M&A. So, you should expect us to continue to build the business through M&A. We aren't going to do deals that we aren't -- that we don't think are smart either financially or because they're hard to integrate or too hard to integrate.

And it wasn't hard to watch us in the past year and say that maybe listening from quarter-to-quarter there was more going on than you were seeing where you saw the J&J deal at the end. There will be other things but we won't force M&A. We'll do M&A where we think we can grow our business the way we want to grow it into areas with secular tailwind, in the areas where we have the right to win and as Emma has said, it will likely be over the long-term our number one use of capital.

Well, I'm going to start with cost. That is starting to come under control. We had challenges, everybody that was a developer in the United States and around the world had challenges with cost the last few years. Now that was all typically rescued by accelerating rental rates and declining cap rates, and we think all of that has stabilized. Cap rates have gone up. Rental rate growth has slowed, but cost growth has also come under control. So that's all come back into balance.

We are underwriting projects now at spreads between current cap rates and yields on projects that should deliver profitability consistent with what has been delivered in that business historically. And I mentioned this earlier and I'll mention it again within that business over the last year we've secured good volume of development sites, not at steel prices but what's happened is sites that were otherwise not available have become available. And because many, many people are on the sidelines, many developers are on the sidelines, we have the CBRE parent company balance sheet available to us.

We've been able to secure a good number of development opportunities with really good spreads between current cap rates and yields on the projects. So that out in the future, we think we're well positioned for that business. And in Emma's comments, you might have noticed that she said, we've got hundreds of millions of dollars of profits captured in that in-process and pipeline portfolio development deals. We're quite excited about that.

Thanks very much, everyone, and we look forward to connecting with you again in 90 days.