Bob Pragada
Jacobs Solutions Inc. (J) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. What we laid out over a year ago, Jerry, continues. With regards to the P&PS margin expectations in that strategic time period, that hasn't changed.

Chad, if you were to take it in two buckets, Chad -- if you're taking two buckets, half is coming from the operating model of a cost structure that's more in line with the type of business that we will have and half is coming from margin expansion and margin mix. It's a higher margin, higher growth business. So think about it simplistically that way.

Yes. I don't actually think, Chad, it's a weakness. Actually, I think it's really strong in our P&PS business right now. It's really on project life cycle. We measure that revenue growth based on where we are in the project life cycle, right? And so when we're deep into whether it be advanced facilities jobs or large infrastructure programs, we're going to be burning and booking and burning a lot higher revenue kind of models.

But as our business continues to profile more into a consultancy world, we're executing higher value services over the project and program life cycle. So you'll have lower revenue, higher margin opportunities come into backlog, and it just depends on when that program life cycle is. So we've talked about it before, which one is accelerating at a faster rate. I'd kind of tie that to where are we in the cycle of some of the spends.

Good morning, Mike.

So two parts. One, Mike, you're asking about kind of what are some of the other end market secular trends that we're seeing? And then the second part of the question is around how do we see kind of revenue models as our consultancy business continues to grow -- consultancy type business. Is that fair?

Sure, sure. The other verticals, I mentioned of our top 30 wins, nine are in water. If you take water and advanced facilities, it's -- half of the top 31s were in both of those sectors, six big advanced facilities markets, too. So we continue to see strong activity within the advanced facilities world, probably driven more so now as we bottomed out from an end market standpoint as far as sales goes within the semiconductor industry. Keep in mind, our clients continue to spend through there. But now with the GLP-1 drugs going on in life sciences and all the strength that we see with our clients we've had for years, advanced facilities is going to continue to be strong.

And then the others, I'd highlight is energy transition. I highlighted a specific job, but the whole grid modernization of everything that we're seeing, and we're kind of in that consultancy component of that, and that's a strong piece, which is a segue to the second part. I would say that, that continued profile of our portfolio within now, call it, independent Jacobs, is we're kind of in the early innings of that. And so it's going to be a balance. But I'd say over the course of the next two or three, four years, it's going to drive that margin expansion even beyond what Claudia talked about post '25 with a cash conversion component to that that's very high.

Good morning, Andy.

So Andy just to clarify. So the EBITDA guidance that I gave at the end we're carrying it in that guidance.

Yes. I think on the backlog piece of the question, Andy, my answer is yes, I think that mid- to high single-digit growth will continue. Remember, we've got a really nice diversity within P&PS. So if we think about some of the political risk or what's happening with interest rates, which might be affecting some of our private sector clients, there's not a full immunity, but our private sector clients continue to spend just because of the -- whether they be technology-based or global supply chain based, I say technology-based science-based drivers or supply chain drivers that has continued, and that's really been driving the performance.

As far as IIJA or a larger infrastructure around energy transition outside the U.S., we have not seen that effect. In fact, our pipeline continues to grow at mid to high-single-digit percentages, and this is on a base that's very high.

Hey, Bert.

Yes. So the first part of the question, Bert, my answer is yes. I think on advanced facilities, I would say the underlying growth is strong. A lot of these larger programs, whether they be in the semiconductor space or in the life sciences space, are -- there are several, in fact, from an account standpoint, it's probably the highest that it's been. It continues to stay at a very high level. We're seeing now kind of the next wave of -- I mentioned GLP-1, but also other novel therapies run, oncology and some of the neuroscience projects that we're seeing.

So the numbers will stay -- as far as numbers of opportunities will stay high. Where they are in the project life cycle will kind of balance -- imagine there's two curves. One is kind of coming down as far as the way that we saw. The others coming up, which kind of leads to a 12 to 13 -- I'm sorry, 12 to 18 month kind of reset there. Gather everything that I just said, your numbers work.

I don't know if it will get to that level. But I think it will be robust. And I think Claudia mentioned it, our European business, despite these macro headwinds that it faced has done well. And so I think water transportation, energy transition that's driving the U.S., probably more pronounced around energy transition in Europe. Middle East is across all of our sectors -- P&PS sectors in the Middle East. And then in Southeast Asia and Australia and New Zealand, those have remained strong. Our business in APAC this year grew at significant double digits. And so a smaller base in the rest of the world. So I'd say all in all, the geographic diversity that we have in our business really, really is strong and helps us.

Hey, Gautam. Good morning.

Yes. No, Gautam, it's a great question because it's where we're playing within the client business. I mean we're talking about a level of scientific and technical offering that is at the highest part of the business of our clients' business. And so whether it be in our pure-play PA Consulting work or in our science-based technical offering in the infrastructure and advanced facility space, that garners a higher level commercial model, part one.

Part two is around the digital enablement, right? We're actually offering outcome-based solutions rather than the historical, I'm going to get margin from a commercial model that's either fixed or reimbursable and trade on a productivity gain. We're able to get those types of margins with -- we'll get them in a reimbursable scenario or we'll get them in a fixed-price services scenario just because of the level of impact that we're having in our clients' business.

Yes, it has. It has in the PFAS work, to segregate it out as an end market, we haven't. Where we're seeing the PFAS gain is in our water center. These wins that I'm referencing as well as some of the larger framework agreements that we have for water clients, whether they be federal, state or local around the world, that comes into play. We're actually making PFAS type of consultancy arrangements around that, too.

The real PFAS for PFAS sake across the industry comes when you get type of super fund type of application in these containments being highlighted on public dockets. So we're -- we see growth, but I would look at that growth probably from a perspective of how it affects our end market sectors. And then when you get kind of in the 25%, 26%, 27% range and you start to get some compliance related items that are even further driving those end market sectors it gets bigger.

Okay, you go ahead.

Yes. And just to add one more thing, Sabahat, on the kind of the -- what we need. We don't -- we feel really strongly that our portfolio in the end markets that we're in is strong. Claudia talked about our two biggest enablers. I'll add a third, which is our consultancy enablement as well. But it's not like we need to go search for new geographies or buy skill sets in an end market sector. It's really the expansion through the digital and consultancy-based enablement, coupled with access to global talent, which -- I'll be in high agreements that we're one of the best in how we deliver on that.

Yes. I think that that's going to be tied to this enablement component. It's not -- this is honed in because it's kind of a different -- probably a different answer for different components of that infrastructure in advanced facility space, but this is honed in on infrastructure. Our clients are capped with how much they can spend for the infrastructure needs.

So what we do is we come in with an offering where we're gaining margin with the enablement of outcomes-based solutions. So there's a price component that -- but with a higher margin what we're driving with our digital enablement. So we see that driving to the bottom line as we do all the things that Claudia talked about is creating a more simplified and streamlined organization.

Yes. Thank you, everyone. We're excited about the future, and we look forward to providing more updates as we progress our exciting plan forward. Thank you, everyone.