Bom Kim
Coupang, Inc. (CPNG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Stanley. Thank you for your questions. On our strategy to increase selection and merchant acquisition, the levers that we've been focusing on for growth remain the same. We do see some impact from our selection expansion, but we are expanding margins through improvements in our logistics network and greater utilization of automation, technology, including AI. During 2023, we generated $1.1 billion in adjusted EBITDA, while increasing margins by 250 bps. Product commerce adjusted EBITDA margin improved nearly 200 bps to 7.1%.

As we stated in the past, margins may be uneven quarter-to-quarter, but you should see our profit margins continue its march upwards over time, expanding on an annual basis, excluding Farfetch. And the improvements that we're driving come from years and years of investment in infrastructure, technology and operational excellence, we're seeing these efficiency improvements across our operations. The underlying drivers of margin are strong, and there's still a lot of room for expansion.

On Developing Offerings, the $650 million does not include Farfetch. We anticipate that the majority of the increase in these investments will be in Taiwan. Even with these investments, we expect to continue expanding our EBITDA margin on a consolidated basis, excluding Farfetch in 2024. We continue to operate in line with the tenants we've shared in the past. We'll focus on opportunities where we can break trade-offs and provide the best customer experience at the lowest cost.

At each stage, we're evaluating with rigor and deciding which efforts demonstrate potential to achieve both meaningfully differentiated customer experience and significant future cash flows, and only these initiatives are earning their way to more significant investments. We have in the past and will continue to discontinue investments that don't -- do not demonstrate that potential to achieve these objectives. We are seeing positive signs in Taiwan. And where we see positive signals, we also won't be shy about investing more. As always, we'll continue to be disciplined and opportunistic to maximize long-term shareholder value.

Eric, thanks for the question. Luxury is a very large market segment, and it's one that hasn't been captured in any meaningful way by e-commerce players yet. We know marketplace, we know operations, we know how to focus on and drive innovation around customer experience. And we saw a business that we thought if we were better at those things, could be much more valuable and if run differently, could create possibly billions of dollars of equity value. We also saw a potential for strategic value for our existing Coupang business. But it's just too early to have a more in-depth conversation beyond that today.

M&A is not our strategy. I remind you that we weren't looking -- we were not looking to do a deal. This was a very opportunistic situation we're moving quickly afforded us the opportunity to buy Farfetch at a very attractive price. Our strategy remains growing organically, our very small share in our existing markets into much larger share over time. We have so much opportunity in our existing markets for Coupang bet. Our core strategy remains organic growth.

On your second question around competition. We continue to believe our success is determined primarily by our execution on improving customer experience and operational excellence. It's important to point out that we still have just single-digit share of over $560 billion projected retail market, just a massive opportunity in front of us. And the market is large enough to support many winners. Retail has been and continues to be dynamic and highly competitive with many players ranging from traditional offline retailers to large Chinese competitors and a constant stream of new entrants, both domestic and international.

Customers are always going to seek the best selection, the best price and the best service. And they have a lot of alternatives, whether down the street or across the border from China, a 5-minute walk or a finger slipway. So we have to constantly find new moments of WOW for our customers to fight for and earn their royalty every day. That's what we spend all of our energy obsessing about.

We see the result of our efforts in our cohort behavior. Where, as I mentioned earlier, every one of our cohort is growing over 15%, even our oldest cohorts. Again, we still have just single-digit share of a massive retail market opportunity. And we'll remain laser-focused on customer experience and operational excellence to capture our share of that opportunity.

I'll point out one more time as well that we have a large -- our newer cohorts are also joining at higher levels of spend and increasing spend faster than new customers in the past. And we've added a large number of new active customers over the last few quarters. That large mix of new customers portends a large amount of future growth. As the spend of newer cohorts converts to much higher levels of spend and the spend levels of the older cohorts also continue to climb. But that will be, of course, over a longer timeframe.

James, thanks for your question. It's still early in Taiwan. We are seeing strong momentum there. As I mentioned, we launched Rocket in October of 2022, and growth there has been faster so far than it was in Korea. And in just the last two quarters alone, we've seen active customers and revenues double. It's also worth noting that we are learning with every iteration. But we're also leveraging so much from what we've built over many years in Korea.

Everything from our selection, processes and learnings, knowledge from building and optimizing fulfillment logistics, supply chain optimization, the technology that we've built over a decade that's all contributing to our scaling faster in Taiwan. And we also expect that they will help us reach profitability there faster. I think it's still too early to have a lot of conversations, but we're very excited by the progress we're making and the promise we're seeing on the ground there.

Yes, I think that's -- at the right time, we'll have a deeper conversation, but it will be rigorous in our analysis, continue to assess at every stage and invest only in the opportunities and when we believe that our investments will generate a meaningful differentiation of customer experience and meaningful returns for our shareholders.

Let me address the FLC question first. First, our growth this quarter wasn't a reflection of any levers we pulled in this past quarter or specifically this past quarter or even recent quarters. It is -- it really represents customer adoption of our investment over many years into providing the best experience at the lowest price across the broadest assortment. We are investing in growing our selection and one of our initiatives is Farfetch -- excuse me, FLC. And we believe our growth is a reflection of that customer response.

We think the growth is, broadly speaking, a reflection of not only the investments that we've made but also the stage that we're at in the market. We're still in the single-digit share of a $560 billion retail market, it's -- we're still very early, and it is a massive opportunity. And there are tens of millions of shoppers who have yet to join our WOW membership, we are just at an early stage of our development and excited about the potential that we see ahead.