Brad Beckham
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (ORLY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, good morning, Josh, it’s Brad. I’ll kick this off and see if the guys have anything else. But as I think you know, there is a lot of moving pieces this year. We’re going up against a huge performance last year in 2023 on top of everything we generated with mid-teens, comp sales growth on the professional side in the last 3 years. So I want to be a little bit careful talking about the sustainability of that as a percentage as our bases continue to get bigger. Again, there is a lot of moving pieces in 2024. We want to be a little bit cautious of everything going on in ‘24.

But what I can talk to you about from an absolute confidence perspective is our ability to continue to out comp the market and continue to take share, especially on the professional side of the business. We couldn’t be more confident in our team’s ability to continue to drive share gains on the professional side. As you know that side of the business is still extremely fragmented. And we have a lot of initiatives in place as well as just our fundamental everyday execution that we’ve always had to make sure we continue to drive share gains here in 2024.

In terms of the transaction part of it, Josh, I would say it’s probably a combination of both. When we think about the makeup of our professional business and you think of kind of how we’re always working up that call list, we’re always going to be focused on new business. There is customers out there even in existing markets that still don’t buy hardly anything from us simply because of the relationship they have with somebody else. And that business and those relationships is built over time, but we’re out there chipping away on it every day. And so we have that business that we’re not doing today. And when Brent and I and Jeremy look at our performance on the professional side, we’re seeing fairly balanced growth, both with existing customers and new. And we feel like that is going to continue for the foreseeable future.

Yes, I’ll take that, Josh. And again, see if the guys have anything else. Obviously, a very fair question. As you know, as we talk through the quarters in 2023, we continue to see opportunities to play from our position of strength. We’re always thinking about the long game when it comes to making sure that we’re driving the profitability of our business through sustained share gains that we talked about a minute ago. Really, as we said a couple of times last year, we had the question, is this going to continue in 2024? And our answers then the entire time that we’re going to wait and see and see how we feel about the continued ability for us to capitalize on some of the volatility that’s happening with some weaker competitors. And as you’ve seen, that’s still how we feel. Really, when we look at the makeup of that, we’re obviously rifle approach when it comes to our store payroll and how we manage that each and every day.

We’re also still rifle approach on making sure those staffing levels to really affect both sides of our business on the share gains. We want to make sure that we continue to staff for that. Really, the makeup that Brent just talked about really how we’re seeing that is the biggest driver of that is going to be our continued investments in tech. And how we’re thinking about that is pretty simple. We have had an amazing run in the last many years, but we’re not looking backwards. We’re looking at the next many years of our business. We only own 10% of the market in the U.S. And so we have an extreme opportunity to get after some of these investments when it comes to technology and specifically in the form of how are we going to help our frontline team members to give better customer service. How are we going to remove friction from the customer experience, both with our DIY customers and our professional customers? And so we feel extremely good about those investments in SG&A, and we feel like there is things we could do, Josh, here for the short-term to drive down SG&A, but that wouldn’t be the right thing to do, knowing we only own 10% of the market and knowing that we’re playing the long game here.

Yes, thank you.

Yes. And Kate, I may just jump in. This is Brad. Jeremy did a great job kind of really framing up your – the answer to your question. The one thing I would highlight and just reiterate from what Jeremy said was how incredibly impressed we are with our ability to open new stores. Our team is just doing from site acquisition all the way through the build, all the way through the store execution and our field team’s ability to build the right team with a great store manager professional parts people. We are just incredibly pleased with our new store performance both in backfill markets in kind of the center part of the country and our existing footprint as well as our new greenfield markets.

Thanks Kate.

Hi. Good morning Mike, it’s Brad. I will take a stab at that. So, maybe just to answer your question directly on the NAICS data, we, in our business, at least at O’Reilly, have never been able to tie that out exactly to correlate the way that some do. Not to say directionally, there is not something there. But we haven’t seen anything change in the competitive dynamic as we look at our performance in Q4 by month. I – Mike, I spent a lot of time just looking at the outputs from our CRM tool that our sales team has out in the field. And listen, those independent competitors that you know very well, I mean they are incredibly well run. We have a tremendous amount of respect for those WDs, the independents, the two steppers. They do an incredible job. And they are honestly our toughest competitor and they hold the most market share when we look at the total addressable market on the professional side of our business, that they are great competitors. That said, there has been nothing that we see that has pointed to anything that has been a step change or anything different, but they were tough all year last year, and they continue to be tough in Q4. And so I wouldn’t tie that directly to what you are seeing in that data, we just really aren’t seeing that.

Thanks Mike.

Good morning Michael.

Hi. Good morning Michael, great question. We appreciate it. So, kind of – obviously, we want to balance our confidence in our ability to continue to take share, to continue to out-comp the market in all both sides of the business, not just professional. As I have said earlier, I think maybe Brent and I both did, we see 2024 generally as an overall market as more of a “normal year”. Now, what’s the definition of normal, you look back at the last many years and how much volatility, how much opportunity, how many things have happened, kind of previous to COVID, we generally think that a normal year based upon all our history, all our decades of doing this, that a normal year for the industry is probably more in that 2% to 3% range. And so I think that ties into kind of what we are saying with our guide. Again, like you know, Michael, we always say we are not very good at predicting the future, and it’s hard to say exactly what the future holds for the industry in 2024. But I think I would generally point you to that kind of 2% to 3% range.

Yes. Thank you so much, Michael. So, as you know, our primary focus, I have been here for 27 years, grew up with the company and our – everything that we do has always started as a company with our mission statement that we are going to be the dominant auto parts supplier in all our market areas. And we always focus on not just the business we have, but what’s out there in the market, total addressable not only for the U.S., but now Mexico and Canada. And so every – we start with that. And then we always have done that profitably, and our goal has always been to drive operating profit dollar growth. And that has not changed. When I think back, Michael, over the last 5 years, I absolutely don’t want to live in the past. But when you think about the fact that we ended 2019 with an operating profit percentage of 18.9%, ended the year with a 20.3% at 2023, I think that kind of to your question, kind of points to where we are thinking about the future in terms of what I want to make sure we do and what we want to make sure we do is we want to set up for a similar trajectory going forward in the years to come. Not meaning that we are assuring anybody of what our rate is going to be, but we know we can do it through share gains and driving operating profit dollar growth. That’s where our head is at. It’s where it’s always been at. Now, do we have pride in where we have gotten our rate, absolutely, especially since going all the way back to when we bought CSK in 2008, we are extremely prideful of where we have gotten our rate. And question has always been, hey, what is the right operating profit percentage, and our answer has always been as high as we can possibly get. So, we are going to continue to have that focus. We are going to focus on share gains, doing it profitably and driving that operating profit dollar growth, and we will continue to make sure that we drive that rate as much as we possibly can.

Thanks Michael.

Yes. Hi. Thanks Simeon. I will start that off and see if the guys have anything else. So, yes, I think that’s right. We feel really good. There has been a lot of talk about kind of – we have been asked about catch-up with what we spent this last year. And I think we want to more reframe that to timing because anything that we were “catching up on”, to Brent’s point earlier to one of the other questions, we have a very solid discipline internally here on a return on every amount of spend that we make, whether it would be SG&A, whether it would be CapEx and how those play together between CapEx and OpEx with depreciation. And so we feel really good about the money we spend. We feel really good about the returns. And we are going to continue to lean into that, both directions. And we – that’s really what got us to where we are at today to kind of your – the root of your question is where is that line of what’s the right spend and that really just lanes us back to our guidance. We feel really good about every moving piece of our SG&A. We feel good about the returns as well as CapEx and everything that we are talking about when it comes to tech investments, when it comes to safer vehicles, the image and appearance of our stores and all the things you have heard us talk about, we are going to continue to lean into that as you have seen.

Thank you, Greg.

Thank you, Matthew. We would like to conclude our call today by thanking the entire O’Reilly team for your unwavering dedication to our customers and the outstanding results you produced in 2023. I would like to thank everyone for joining our call today and we look forward to reporting our first quarter results in April. Thank you.