Brian Tyler
McKesson Corporation (MCK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Michael. I'll take that one and give Britt a minute of relief. So our medical business is incredibly diverse. I mean, across, it really shows up in all of the alternate sites or everywhere that's not a hospital setting to be truthful.

And even amongst hospitals, we tend to serve all of their communities, not all, but we do serve their community-based locations. And then it's also diverse from a sense of multiple product lines, not just commodity medical products, it's equipment, it's lab, it's pharmaceutical, it's specialty pharmaceutical.

When we look at utilization broadly across the industry, we've been pleased to see it come back. We've seen prescriptions come back, oncology visits come back. Medical has probably recovered a bit over the course of the last year, but we are encouraged by recent commentary and staff on the recovery and ambulatory surgery centers, for example.

So I think there's a big utilization that we think continues to underlie this business. There's the diversity of the products and the new segments that we can penetrate. There's opportunities for us. We continue to believe in our private brand portfolio. So I'd say it's the confluence of all those things that give us the confidence.

No. I think that's well done. I mean, obviously, it's hard to go anywhere these days without talking about GLP-1s. And I would just characterize it generally, I think their growth will be positive for us and have a big impact on, hopefully, patients and the health of the country.

Yes, let me jump in on this one, Britt. So we call it an oncology ecosystem because we really think there is this value of all of the pieces together, and I'm really pleased with the progress that we're making overall. You've seen the growth that both Britt and I talked about in the U.S. Oncology Network now scaled to over 2,300 providers. We've made tremendous progress, had a record year of adding providers to the network last year, and that's a piece.

And that, as that grows, that obviously feeds more data, gives us more provider insight. That allows Ontada to continue to work with our partners to create products and services that help them develop, commercialize and get their products to market and understand how to most effectively go to market to have the utilization and patient impact that they want. We think that Ontada is in year three or four of its development, building off some assets that we had long had, but we continue to invest in new product development. And we continue to see that business improve year-over-year.

We think the partnership with the joint venture we did for the Sarah Cannon Research Institute, who brings additional insights, moves us up stage into clinical trials in a very prominent way in the community setting. So again we think that trial early insight business, that helps feed Ontada. That helps our providers navigate the clinical care that they have to provide every day. The insights we get from that clinical care can feed back through some of our data assets to provide information back to the biopharma.

So each of the pieces is sort of additive to the overall solution. And I'd just say that while we're probably, I would characterize that it's still an investment phase in Ontada because we still believe there's opportunity and a big long-term market out there and lots of space for us to be innovating in with the unique assets we have. Overall, I think it was a -- very pleased with where our oncology business has developed.

Well, we don't really break out Norway and Canada and talk about them separately. But what I will say about our Canadian business is we have, again, a very diversified set of assets in Canada. We have a leading distribution position. We have a leading retail banner position. We've got a leading chain pharmacy position there. We've got biopharma and specialty assets.

Now those work very differently than the ones that work in the US, but really in many ways, getting at kind of the same overall need just in a very different health care system. And so on the basis of our scale and our breadth, we are a really important player in the health of Canada. And I think we've been able to leverage that scale. We're able to find efficiencies across the business to continue to support growth that we're very pleased with.

Thanks, George. Thanks for the question. So we've been at this for a long time. I think we acquired US. Oncology in 2010, so it's been a long time. We've got a lot of experience. And if you think about the breadth of our solutions in the community oncology space, I mean, we start with -- you can start your relationship with McKesson with just basic distribution.

Then you can add on distribution and our GPO services. And then we have a la carte services to support you in the running of your practice. And that gives us great relationships, great insight into the practices that are out there in the community and helps us really identify who we consider to be the leaders, businesses that are run with similar clinical and operational philosophies to the US Oncology Network.

So it's not uncommon to see a start with just a very transactional relationship, but then over time, grow that into inclusion in the US Oncology Network. We have a very disciplined model for the types of practices that we think fit the USAN model. And I think over the last couple of years, you've seen us pretty successfully attract them into the US Oncology Network.

Yes. What we know is in, obviously, 40 approvals, 27 launched. A big event this year will be Humira, which is going to be a Part D product, not Part B. We have many more services to offer and assets to leverage and use in the Part B arena. So we will track kind of payer response and pricing strategies and patient adoption over the course of this year. But what we know is baked into the guidance, we've provided.

Well, I mean, if you think about this business, I mean, first off, we've had really strong growth the last several years. We actually combine and form this business a couple of years ago, just a couple of years ago by bringing various businesses and assets across the company together.

And as those things continue to come together, we continue to look at our resources, our product offerings. We have conversations with manufacturers about their life cycle and service needs across that life cycle. And we just felt like, as we evaluated investments we had been making and where we thought investment opportunities were for the future, it just made sense for efficiency and focus purposes to make sure we align those to where our best possibilities are.

When you make those realignments, the skill set is not always the same, what you're moving from to what you're moving to. And so unfortunately, that did impact some of our teammates. This is our job. This is one of our strategy, to simplify the portfolio and be focused on efficiency and positioning the business for long-term growth. So we feel very good about the performance this past fiscal year and feel good about the targets we have set for fiscal '24.

Okay. Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon or evening, depending on where you are. I appreciate all the thoughtful questions, your support and interest in McKesson. Thank you, Rachel for facilitating this call. I want to conclude by just stating McKesson had a strong fourth quarter and full year results. I am really pleased with the continued momentum in the business. Britt and I remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable long-term growth.

I want to end though, with a note of acknowledgment to the McKesson employees. It's really thanks to their dedication and their commitment to our customers, our partners and to each other that enable us to truly improve care in every setting, one product, one partner, and one patient at a time. Thank you, Team McKesson. Everyone else thanks again for joining. Have a terrific evening.
























