Charles Lowrey
Prudential Financial, Inc. (PRU) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Alex, it's Charlie. I'll take that. Thanks for the question. We have said that we've always wanted -- that we want to be good stewards of capital. And as a result, we want to have a consistent disciplined and balanced approach to the redeployment of capital within our businesses, as you said, and to shareholders.

And there are really three aspects to our approach on which we focus. First and foremost is maintaining our rock-solid balance sheet and financial strength, which is critical to fulfilling the promises we make to our customers and clients.

Second is investing both organically and through programmatic acquisitions to support sustainable long-term growth of our businesses. And the third is returning excess capital to shareholders as we have in the past.

And in this quarter, we've done all three. We've deployed capital to support strong sales across our businesses, including several new products to meet the evolving needs of our customers. We closed on the Deerpath acquisition for PGIM, and we returned over $700 million to shareholders. So we'll continue to have this consistent and disciplined approach as we go forward.

Sure. As I mentioned to Alex earlier, we do -- we have a consistent and balanced approach. And -- as a result, Jimmy, we really look for, again, the three things. One is to make sure that we have a very strong balance sheet, which we do, as Ken was talking about.

The second is to invest organically in our businesses, and you've seen us do that, and we will continue to do that to support sales growth, to support the growth of all our businesses as we go forward and then to look for acquisitions that make sense. Those would be in higher growth areas. It could be in distribution, it could be in geography as well.

We also see tremendous opportunities right now in the marketplace in places like PRT, right, where we are one of the leaders in this business. We think there's going to be tremendous volume there, and that's a really good business for us as we go forward. And Caroline, you may want to talk about that in one moment.

The final thing, as we've talked about, is returning excess capital to shareholders. We've done that in the past. And if we think we have excess capital, we'll do so. But we're going to evaluate that relative to our investment in our businesses and the opportunities that come along. And Caroline, you might want to talk about one in particular.

So, thank you again for joining us today. The fourth quarter capped a year of continued growth and evolution for Prudential. Our strategy, coupled with our mutually reinforcing business system positions us well to deliver long-term sustainable growth to all our stakeholders.

Our fundamentals are strong, and we are confident about our momentum going into 2024. We will continue to lead the way in expanding access to investing insurance and retirement security across the globe, as we seek to help current and future generations build a secure financial future. Thank you again for joining us, and have a good day.