Chris Womack
The Southern Company (SO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Shar, welcome. Thank you.

Chris Womack

Thanks Shar.

Good afternoon, Steve.

No, go ahead, go ahead. Finish your question.

Yes, it is an unprecedented growth that we continue to witness from economic development activities. And so yeah, this is a very conservative look. I mean, we look for -- we factor in build permits, building permits in terms of actual announcements of ground has been broken.

I mean, so we look at not just companies that are forward looking and making site visits, but there's been some demonstrated commitment that they will, in fact, be building a project in the state. So we go through those thresholds before, we make those filings in terms of being -- having some certainty that these projects are, in fact, real.

We've just seen unprecedented economic development activity, say, for the past three years. And we continue to have an aggressive pipeline. But as we go to the commission for this updated IRP, we just factored in those companies, those businesses that has clearly demonstrated and taken actions that we think of – that shows some firmness in their participation, in their operating businesses in the state.

Yeah. But Steve, this is a very conservative look as we make these decisions.

Data centers represent right now, we think somewhere around 80% of that emerging load.

Thanks Steve. Have a good day.

Yes. Carly, let me start by saying with initial criticality achieved yesterday, we continue to progress through testing and start-up. The next major milestone is thinking to the grid, and that could occur later this month.

We expect Unit 4 completion during the second quarter. And as we take in account the experiences we got from last year with our Unit 3, as we look at moving through Unit 4, and we could have worked through these units -- how we work through these issues that could arise.

But we view this as a long-term investment and we'll make sure we're taking time to get it right. But right now, as we look at where we are, we are planning on the Unit being online in April, and we think we have a number of weeks of margin to accomplish that objective.

You bet, Carly.

Hi, Julien.

Yes. And so yes, we've done all the analysis, we sent the pump back to the manufacturer. And we think we identified the cause of the issue, but a root cause analysis has not been performed yet. But we have tested all the other pumps. And with the new pump, we made sure there were not any similar issues, but we think we're in pretty good shape with the pumps as we go forward.

Thank you.

Hi, Nick.

Good afternoon.

I guess, as we have looked at the pump that we sent to the manufacturers, as we identified what we thought the issue was, we think it's not an issue with the other pumps. I mean, we test the other pumps. We assess the pump, the new pump that we installed. And we think we just have a good handle. And on these pumps, I think you consider the run time. I think that provides good color to kind of, I guess, the confidence we have in the pump and what we've identified as the issues and things we have to do to make sure we don't have similar issues as we go forward.

But you'll also see great transparency through this process, man, as the commission and Georgia works through the process, many staff is filing testimony today, and they may have a different perspective. But you'll see that process play out and that leads us to the decision in April by the commission. But you've seen these IRP processes before. So those processes will continue as we go forward, and you'll see real time kind of how it unfolds.

Hey, David.

No, we do expect to see rate decreases for our customers with these additional sales and the customer growth that we'll experience. We think that should more than offset the cost of the resources needed to serve. And so we -- affordability is something we pay a lot of attention to, and there are things we do internal. And we think that one of the benefits of this sales growth is having the opportunity to put downward pressure on rates for our customers across the board. And so that's kind of how we see it and how we evaluate each project. I want to make sure that is, in fact, putting downward pressure on rates.

Hey, Jeremy.

Good afternoon.

I have no idea. I mean that matter is still in the court system. And so we'll observe it, just like you are. But I have no insight into how that's going to play out at this time.

Thank you.

Hey, Durgesh.

Thanks, Durgesh.

Hi, Andrew.

And, yeah, we'll look at the size, the demand, the timing, there are other factors that will go into making sure that we price service appropriately to those customers.

You're welcome. Thank you.

Hi, Angie.

Angie, there are a lot of considerations that go into that decision. And yeah, we want to connect them to our grid. And yeah, we'll have conversations with them about renewable resources and the mix. But those are conversations that we do have with them, recognizing what upgrade may be made on the system, locations, where they are. So there are a lot of kind of really detailed conversations, engineering conversations that go into making those final decisions that also then ultimately impact the pricing for that service.

Absolutely. Yes, that's correct.

Thank you.

How are you doing, Paul?

Thank you very much.

And yes, I think you got it just right. I mean, we see the opportunities to have some increased capital spending in Atlanta around the operations here in Georgia. So we think that allows that gas investments to be stable going forward. So I think you've spoken to it just right.

Thank you.

Thanks Travis.

Thank you.

How are you doing?

No. I mean, we're always looking across our hand and finding ways to be more efficient. I mean, so there's ongoing efforts to -- once again, as we look at affordability, I mean, we think about the opportunities to keep -- to drive rates from pricing down because of sales growth and because of customer growth, but also making sure that we're focused on looking internal in terms of being more efficient and finding ways to also drive down the cost of our O&M expenses.

Also making sure, we take full advantage of fuel pricing. I mean, you see where natural gas prices are now. So looking across the entire portfolio, I mean, that is an ongoing continuous exercise that we'll always focus on in terms of finding ways to drive down O&M and find ways to be more efficient.

Yes. And the last thing I'd add, even though we've had this focus on Vogtle, but it hasn't kept us from paying attention to the fundamentals, to making sure that we provide the service that customers expect, but also being focused on the cost of our product.

Hi, Paul.

I think there is -- yes, I mean, they may not know exactly what the price will be. But once again, as we sit with them, understanding their needs, what their desires are and the level of service, I mean that all goes into consideration of what the ultimate price will be. I mean, the value, location, reliability, resiliency, all of those things go into consideration as we kind of price these projects out. And so that's a part of the negotiation, that's part of the conversation that we have with it.

No. I mean, like I said, I mean, we will -- I mean…

I don't think so. I think we may be better informed as we bring some more projects online. Right now, I think -- I don't think that would be the case. And plus it could be trade secrets as well, so.

Thank you.

Again, let me say, Southern Company had an exceptional year in 2023. And I am really excited about the future of this company. Let me thank everybody for joining us today, and wish everybody a happy day, and thank you very much.