Chris Kempczinski 
McDonald's Corporation (MCD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi. David. It’s Chris. Thanks for the question. First on your question about the Middle East. Obviously the place that we are seeing the most pronounced impact is in the Middle East, we are seeing some impact in other Muslim countries like Malayasia, Indonesia. And then as far as IOM impact, it depends on the country. So in a country, for example France that has a larger Muslim population, we are seeing some impact in France. It depends very much on where the restaurant is located and if it's in a Muslim area. But we are seeing some impact there. And then in other countries, like Spain, like in Italy, we're seeing no impact. So it really depends very much on the country. But, as I said, the most pronounced impact that we're seeing is in the Middle East and in Muslim countries like Indonesia and Malaysia.

Also, as we said in our prepared remarks, our outlook is, so long as this conflict, this war is going on, we're not making any plans, we're not expecting to see any significant improvement in this. It's a human tragedy what's going on, and I think that that does weigh on brands like ours.

Back to your other question about potentially a reacceleration as we also said in the prepared remarks and we also talked about it at Investor Day, we're expecting 2024 to be normalizing comp sales growth in that kind of 3% to 4% range, which is, where we've been more historically. So, we certainly had great performance over whether you look at it on a two-year horizon, a four-year horizon, 30 plus percent on a four-year horizon, call it 14% or so on a two-year horizon. So, feel great about that, but I think we are moving into 2024 that’s going to look more like what you would have considered a typical year prior to COVID and all the things that have gone on.

Sure, thanks for the question. You're right in pointing out France for us has been historically one of our best markets. We have some of our highest customer satisfaction in that market. We have some of our highest franchisee cash flows in that market. We're not happy with our performance in France right now. And if I were to isolate two areas that we are focused on to improve in France, the first is, we did get offsides on value there. The team has done a very nice job in pivoting and just put in place a new value program there that we're seeing great early success with that. But certainly, that was a reaction and we don't want to see that. And then second, we continue to have operations opportunities in France and that's something that we've been having a lot of engagement on with our franchisees.

So as I think about IOM, certainly lessons there. But on the positive side, France is certainly our most pressured market right now in France -- or in IOM, but I also feel very good that we're going to get that business back on track and continue to have the performance that we've become accustomed to in that market over many, many years.

Hey, David, it's Chris. Just -- I'll do a couple of things and then let Ian clean up whatever I missed. But we're not going to get into specific numbers on the Middle East. But suffice to say, as you see in our IDL results, you can infer that the impact is meaningful, as I said also in our employee note at the beginning of this year.

And then in terms of health of the franchisees, we're really fortunate in that we have some very strong, very well-capitalized franchisees in the Middle East. But as we have historically done, as we work through challenges around the world, you've seen us in partnership with franchisees do things to support them during difficult periods that sometimes can be deferrals, sometimes it can be other forms of support. And so those are ongoing conversations that we'll have with our franchisees.

We believe that working in partnership with our franchisees and doing things together through good times and bad is the way that we've been successful over time. So it's going to be very much a situation-by-situation approach that we have in the Middle East, but certainly, the impact right now is significant.

And Ian, I'll pass it off to you for anything else you want to add.

Sure. Well, overall, we had a very good 2023 in China. We were happy with how our business performed in China. We're seeing strong growth there. We also built 1,000 restaurants in China. So we're very much on track from our development aspirations and we would expect to do something similar in 2024 from that standpoint. So overall headline is feel good about what we're seeing in China and the progress in growth.

Certainly, in China, as you've read about and seen it with a number of other companies, consumer sentiment in the country is a little bit more under pressure right now. And that is leading to -- in Q4, in particular, we saw the environment get more promotional. We didn't necessarily follow that, but certainly the environment is getting more promotional.

And our focus is on making sure that we remain competitive. So we're going to do what we need to do to maintain our competitiveness in that market. But if you think about the overall macro trends in China, I talked about this at Investor Day, we certainly think that we're going to continue to see good comp performance in that market as consumer wealth and GDP continue to grow mid-single digits. We think there's going to be an opportunity for us to continue to build out development and penetration in that market to many places where we don't really have McDonald's presence. So overall outlook on China for us continues to be very robust, which is why we increased our stake, as Ian mentioned.

Sure. I think consistent with what we talked about on the prior call, where you see the pressure with the U.S. consumer is that low-income consumer. So call it, $45,000 and under. That consumer is pressured. From an industry standpoint, we actually saw that cohort decrease in the most recent quarter, particularly I think as eating at home has become more affordable. There's been much less pricing that's been taken more recently on packaged food. So you're seeing that eating at home is becoming more affordable, that I think is putting some pressure from a IEO standpoint on that low-income consumer.

If you think about middle income, high income, we're not seeing any real change in behavior with those. We continue to gain share with those groups. But the battleground is certainly with that low-income consumer. And I think what you're going to see as you head into 2024 is probably more attention to what I would describe as affordability. So think about that as being absolute price point being probably more important for that consumer in a lower absolute price point to get them into the restaurants than maybe a value message, which is a two for six or something like that. Those probably are going to resonate a little bit less in 2024, particularly we think in the front half with the consumer there may be something that's lower absolute price points.

So that's -- we are set up well to be able to go after that. We have our D123 platform, as you know, and I think you're going to see probably some activity there in the U.S. at the local level to make sure we continue to provide good value for that low-income consumer.

Thanks. Good morning. So, just on McOpCo margins, I believe you mentioned you expect them to be relatively in line this year versus 2023. So can you expand maybe on some of the puts and takes around this outlook? Maybe any detail on U.S. versus IOM, your cost inflation outlook? And maybe finally, if and where you see opportunity for company margin upside? Thanks.

Sure. Well, as you know, we don't give traffic guidance. So we won't get into kind of a specific what do we expect to see in traffic. But I think it's fair to say that the success in this industry is always about having balance and you need to have both traffic growth and you need to have price growth. That's the long-term formula for success. So that's kind of what we use as our North Star.

I think we're set up really well to have that kind of balance. As I look at our business around the world, our brand is in great shape. We are seeing some of our highest customer satisfaction scores around the world. We're seeing our operations in almost every single country around the world get better as we execute our Performance and Customer Excellence program or PACE, as you know it. I think globally, in Q4, we saw service times improve by 10 seconds.

And we've got very good alignment with our franchisees. In most of our big markets, we're seeing healthy franchising cash flows. In the U.S., franchising cash flows were up roughly $35,000 last year despite all the price headwinds. So I think we're set up well as a business to have that balance right as part of our long-term focus.