Chuck Magro
Corteva, Inc. (CTVA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Good morning, Vincent, it's Chuck. What I'll do is I'll give you the overview and then Robert can talk about some of the specifics in the market, and we'll try to do this as quickly as we can. Look, if you think about the overall situation, last year was a pretty tough year in global CP. Where we think we are this year is that the CP market, what I'd say broadly speaking, they're still imbalanced but only in a few regions. So Brazil is still a market where we have ample supply. And there are pockets, I would say, in Europe. But the US, the destocking is largely behind us now. And the market is functioning quite normally and I'd say, is healthy.

When you look at it globally, the situation that we see for 2024 is that the overall global industry most likely will be down low single digits. And that is, as you rightly called out, it's really a function of price. Volumes seem to be stable and growing, and we expect that in 2024 and then our early look -- so then if you think about this, the first half, I think, is going to be fairly tough in CP. Things should normalize and stabilize in the second half of the year, and this is a broad statement globally.

And then as we look to 2025, we believe that 2025 will look more like the historical CP industry. So low single-digit, return to normal growth is how we're sizing up 2025. And then that growth will be off of a new lower base. So that's the setup for 2024 and a first look at 2025.

Robert, do you want to just talk specifically around markets?

Yeah. Good morning, David, and Dave can give me some perspective as well here. But if you start thinking about the situation, just the way we've looked at the market, the Seed market remains very healthy, and we've talked about sort of on-farm demand for top technical and Seed, but also for CP being very stable and very steady.

So that is the backdrop, and then when you consider the fact that you've got the CP industry and if you take the comments we've just made, where we still have some destocking in 2024, that's going to impact our business. And that's reflective in how we've set up the guide and then where we believe we can hit in 2025 is really the impact of having that global CP market stabilize and then start to go again in 2025. And then there's this large bucket of sort of value creation, which is, we call it, controlling our controllables, it's self-help, it's cost, it's productivity, it's the royalties that we've seen improvement in expenses in our out-licensing royalty growing.

If you think about that, in 2023, that number was approaching -- well, it was over $500 million. And we're going to see now going forward in 2024 and again, in 2025, somewhere between $350 million and $450 million of sort of self-help controllables, and that has some deflation. But that's really -- one of the big issues here is we're starting to see deflation move through our P&L, primarily now in CP. And because of how we manage risk management and hedging in our Seed business, there's going to be even more benefit as we get into 2025. So to your specific question, some of it has to do with just the rate and the timing of seeing some of the deflation come through the P&L. And then there are some accounting normalizations, Dave, that you should hit.

Yeah. And maybe one last point here, David. If you think about the last two years, Corteva actually grew by about $800 million of EBITDA. That's the same plan for 2024 and 2025, a little less in 2024, more in 2025, but we saw that in 2022 and then a little less in 2023. So it should give -- at least when we look at it, it gives us some comfort that this path that we're on to 2025 with the adjustments we've made, and by the way, we did not adjust the margin. We're feeling very comfortable about that. We feel we are on the right path here.

Good morning, Frank, so yes, let me give you the high level and then I think it would be instructive if Tim, gives you a situation that's happening in Seed and then if Robert has anything to add in CP. but look, you're right. So -- and I'll just zero in, Latin America is a big diverse region for us. But really, this is a Brazil phenomenon. And if you look at 2023, I'd call it the perfect storm, right? We had CP destocking was probably the most pronounced in that country. It was hit with pretty severe weather challenges, which actually slowed down the destocking and certainly has impacted planted acreage of the safrinha crop.

And then you've got all the kind of macroeconomic conditions on top of that. So it is going to take some time to sort out. We do see that we are heading in the right direction. The positive, I think, comment I can make is the long-term trends in Brazil, the structural opportunity that we see in that country has not changed. This will be an ag growth market for the future. But there's been some moving parts in Seed and CP, and I'll turn it over to Tim now to talk about Seed.

Yes. So I think Robert covered some of this already. Good morning. I'd say, look, what we saw in the third quarter was elevated imports from broadly speaking, from generics entering Latin America. What we've seen since then as we work our way through the fourth quarter and then so far in 2024, is that, generally speaking, imports into Latin America are down and they're trending -- they're slowing down, they're trending down, and that includes generics.

So I think we commented that what we're seeing at a price level is that we didn't expect that what we saw at, I'll call it, the peak was sustainable. And that's exactly what we think is happening here is there is a rebalancing happening, I think there's kind of a view of that you need to be profitable when you're moving these products around the world and into these regions. And so that's exactly what we saw is a slowdown.

But I will counsel -- generics a part of this market. They're not going away. They serve a role, but it's not the primary area. In fact, we've made portfolio decisions to move almost our entire portfolio away from these product lines, because we feel that where we want to add value is differentiated technology service with strong agronomic support, because I think that's what farmers need and they're willing to pay for that. But to answer your direct question, yes, we've seen a slowdown in imports into Brazil, including generics.