Chuck Robbins
Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Tim. So I'll provide some color, and Scott, maybe you can talk about the conversion of the orders. Look, first of all, we're obviously dealing in a world that has a lot of dynamics right now, but our teams executed incredibly well.

As I've said on prior calls, with our sales organization, when we see transitions in sort of customer buying, if it's getting worse, what we see is that our teams will forecast a quarter and then by the end of the quarter, they would have dropped and/or missed. And then when it's beginning to stabilize and get better, they tend to actually exceed the forecast. And so what we saw in Q4 was they had their opening forecast. They nailed month one, they nailed month two, and they exceeded month three by several hundred million dollars.

So it was one of those quarters that they actually over-performed what they thought they would do at the beginning of the quarter, which is a positive sign. But again, it's one quarter. We also had the largest quarter in our history of enterprise software agreements from an orders perspective. So we had a lot of big customers making big commitments, which was a positive thing.

If you think about what was going on around the world, I'd say service provider just continued to be weak. Enterprise improved, commercial improved. US enterprise was basically flat. So that was better than we had been experiencing for sure, which is a good sign. Public sector remains steady. And verticals, we saw strength in financial services, transportation and energy. And we saw some good strength in countries like India and Saudi around the world.

So it's one quarter, but if you compare it to the prior few quarters where the teams had opening forecast that they generally missed by the time we got to the end of the quarter, this was one where I'd say that it was much more stable as we went through the quarter. Scott, do you want to talk about the order conversion?

Yes. If I could make one more comment, Tim. On the sequentials, we said given that the year-over-years are just sort of difficult to -- they don't really provide a clear view on what's going on. We've been talking about sequentials a fair amount. And I did say in my opening comments that sequentials from Q3 to Q4 were in excess of 30%.

To put that in perspective, it's typically 18% to 20%. And from a customer segment perspective, enterprise was well above that, public sector was well above it, commercial was pretty close to it and service provider was the low one. However, it was still above historical trends on a sequential basis. So just to try to give you as much color as we can.

Let me make some just a couple of comments, and I'm going to hand it to Scott and let him answer probably both of these. On the capital allocation and the leverage comments, what I would say is that we've spent a lot of time talking to our shareholders over the last few months. And it's clearly important to our shareholders that we commit to and we deliver on operating leverage in our P&L, and we've been doing it, but we haven't committed to it for long term.

So that's what we're basically doing today is saying that we are going to continue to commit to do -- to provide operating leverage in the P&L as we look to the future. And then on the buybacks, we had also increased -- there are two things we wanted to do was increase the amount as well as drive more consistency and predictability for our shareholders. And so the rate, as I said, that we've been running at like the last three quarters is sort of the target that we would be at on a quarterly basis as we go forward.

I think I remember that.

Yes, Meta, thank you. So on the Ethernet underneath the AI GPU networks, it is Silicon One for sure. And I think for the next 12 months or so, I think we'll be doing trials. I think we'll have some opportunities, but there'll still be a lot of InfiniBand. And that's why we joined as a founding member of this Ultra Ethernet coalition so that we can up guide the standards and really deliver Scheduled Fabric, to your point, in a very effective way. So we think into FY '25 and beyond, this thing will begin to shift to more of an Ethernet-based infrastructure. On the Security front, yes, we've had some early traction. I mentioned Goldman in the multi-cloud defense, which is a great sign of confidence in that solution. If you look at our XDR platform, which, candidly, we just went GA with it right at the end of the quarter. And we already took a seven-figure order from a retailer in Europe. So that was positive. We took one of our largest security orders ever. We took an eight-figure security order from a Fortune 10 company in Q4. So there's some early green shoots, and the teams are executing. The early feedback and early commentary from analysts and customers, et cetera, is positive, but we've got to actually deliver on it. And hopefully, in the second half of this year, we'll see some real positive impact and then '25 for sure.

Thanks, Michael. On the share gains in the enterprise networking space, which is what you're asking about, we expect Q2 will be equal to or maybe slightly above the incremental gains that we see when those numbers come out based on some estimates that we have done internally. I would say the thing that is really helping beyond being great products, but we have done a couple of things. Number one, we have begun to deliver on monitoring and then subsequent management of our Catalyst, the traditional Catalyst portfolio with the Meraki dashboard. And that's a real advantage for customers. It allows them to run a hybrid of the two portfolios. It allows them to have visibility from one dashboard to both sets of portfolios. And so that's been really well received. It has been a key driver in significant improvement in our renewal rates on the software side. And while I'm talking about it, I thought I would share one milestone with you. I've been asked for a few years, when do we think the software renewals in the enterprise networking space would be meaningful. And FY'24 is the first year, I think, it will be meaningful. So just to give you a perspective on it. We have we expect this year to renew enterprise networking software at close to $1 billion. So the transition that we've been going through for all these years is going to hopefully begin to start to pay solid benefits for us going forward. But that's what's going on in that portfolio. Scott, you want to talk about orders?

Thank you.

Yes. Thanks, Ittai. I'll give you a little color and then I'll let Scott comment again, too. A lot of this is -- we've made this transition to -- virtually our entire enterprise networking portfolio now is a subscription model. And so that contributes. And Scott can talk about the year-over-year contribution that we've seen. But I mean we have $35 billion in RPO. And I think it's an important thing because when you think about market share and some of the concerns that people have had, you have to remember that we put a reasonable amount of each order in our core networking portfolio on the enterprise side goes into RPO and doesn't get reported as revenue. It's ratable. So it's a headwind to market share. And the other thing that I would point out is that we had a record year at $50 billion -- almost $57 billion at a time where we were building RPO to $35 billion and we have the backlog that we have. So there, we've had a lot of solid customer demand. I'd say in Q4, we certainly saw a fair amount of the enterprise networking. As we ship those products, we saw that software come out of backlog as we've talked about and moved into RPO. We saw a lot of these enterprise agreements that we did with our customers in enterprise contributed to it as well. Those were reasonably large deals. And Scott, I'll let you comment anything -- any more you want to comment on?

Thanks, Jim. That was a lot. Let me tell you a little bit of the history on the specialist model. I'll tell you what we're doing in the product portfolio, which allows us to clean up the specialist model a little bit and get them a little more focused. So historically, like -- let's use Security as an example. We've had these different products, and we've sold them all individually. And therefore you need to compete with those individual competitors. So you need subspecialists, you need specialists in every little area of security. And what we've been doing across the portfolio is moving to more of a platform approach. And so it makes it easier to sell. And in certain areas of our portfolio like collaboration and security, we've moved to a suite strategy. So we're now packaging up the Security portfolio in different suites, which allows for us to sort of optimize the security specialist or actually align them more effectively is probably the best way to say it. And so that's the work that's been going on. And I think as we continue to execute on this platform strategy, it certainly simplifies the selling cycle for some of these technologies and I think getting to the suites. We've seen it work in collab. This past quarter, we had very strong order growth in collaboration. We had positive order growth in Security as well. And so for collab to be showing positive order growth is really a byproduct of the suites and leading with calling as the lead part of the suite and then also a big focus on cloud contact center, which grew triple-digits last quarter from an orders perspective. So those are the things that we're trying to do. We're trying to get the portfolio put together in a way that makes it easier and requires fewer subspecialists in the field as we move forward. Scott?

Yes. Well, Ben, welcome and thank you for the question. We have definitely seen traction in the space. Lots of discussions, lots of architectural discussions, lots of input from those customers on what they'd like to see in the next generation of silicon as an example. And the teams are off building that we just delivered in June. As I said earlier, the next-generation ASIC that actually is built for this, but there's going to be more and more purpose-built silicon over the next couple of years. And the teams are working on that. And those customers are having a great deal of input in how that silicon gets designed. And in some cases, it's unique to each one. And so that's the beauty of us having such an advanced silicon capability. It allows us, if we need to, to actually build unique silicon by customer because these opportunities are so large. In the last call, we talked about the fact that this would probably be 3 to 4 times the opportunity size of the original cloud build-out. And unfortunately for us, as it's been well documented, we missed the original cloud build-out. But I can say with every bit of confidence right now that as we go through this AI transition to Ethernet, we are super well positioned. We have incredible silicon that they have been using in other parts of their portfolio. We won three more use cases last quarter. We now are installed in 21 use cases across the top six of these providers. And we expect that, that momentum will just continue over the next few years. I do think that in the short term, InfiniBand is probably going to still be the preferred in most cases, but they are trialing. And we will, much like we already have, we'll get some opportunities to run Ethernet underneath season. And as we deliver Scheduled Fabric, it will become even more prevalent.

Thanks, Ben

Yes, Tal, thank you for that. And so on the 400 gig to 800 gig, I don't know that I've seen exact reports that you're talking about on the 400 gig. But our teams -- the volume of ports that we're shipping on 400 gig would imply that that's a -- I don't know, we've had a great deal of success and it's been growing quite significantly. So -- but we obviously had -- over the last few years, we've been rebuilding or actually building our presence in this space. So it wouldn't surprise me to see us as a low market share player, but we've certainly won our fair share. On the 800 gig, I think it's just a matter of we're engaged there. We're installed already. We've got trust with these customers. They've seen what we can do. And I think that we're just in the game at the right time as opposed to where we started. And so I think from now on, it just gives us an opportunity to be there from the beginning as opposed to trying to catch up.

Thank you.

Yes. We do not -- Scott and I are both looking at each other. We don't know of any supply chain issues we have around our AI. It's our standard Ethernet portfolio based on the Silicon One ASIC, and we're delivering it today. So I don't think there's any supply chain issue for us on that front.

On the FY '24 contribution of AI, I don't have that information on top of my head.

Go ahead.

Yes. What I was going to add, David, is I think until we evolve some of the -- get some of the Scheduled Fabric technologies built out, they're certainly running -- they're running some of these on traditional Ethernet, which is what we're deploying today. But as we get Scheduled Fabric out and these customers get more comfortable moving from InfiniBand to Ethernet, I think that's when we'll start to see the real impact of AI. And maybe it's late '24, but I would suspect into '25 for sure.

And by the way, a portion of that for sure is deployed. It's in and running.

I'll make two comments and, Scott, I'll let you add to it. First of all, as we said, we think that as you see the Q2 calendar year share numbers come out, you'll continue to see us gain share in that space. And so we would expect to continue doing that. The renewal number that I threw out was close to $1 billion. And Scott, I'll just let you comment on how you want to break down or if you want to?

Yes.

Thanks, Marilyn. First of all, I want to thank our teams and just say how proud I am of the work that's gone into the last couple of years to actually deliver the record results that we did. We're incredibly proud of the share gains that we expected to gain and we are. I'm proud of the team and the new innovation that's being delivered in areas like AI and security and across the portfolio in observability and core networking and SP routing, all of these areas, the teams are doing an amazing job. And our portfolio is very relevant to the customer priorities that we see around the world. I've never seen such consistency around the priorities in virtually every customer around the world. And our portfolio lines up nicely against the key things that our customers are trying to achieve. I'm also very proud of the team and Scott and the rest of the finance organization for what they've done. And we're very happy to provide clarity on our commitment to our shareholders with the operating leverage and the buybacks and our dividend as we look to the future. So thanks for joining us today.

