Dan Houston
Principal Financial Group, Inc. (PFG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Joel, and thanks for joining the call. I believe this is your first time to call in. It’s great having you cover PFG, and so with that, let me have Pat and Kamal tag team this response.

Joel that’s helpful…

I’ll pass this to Chris quickly, but just to be on the record, that PRT business continues to be a strong contributor for profitability and growth for the organization with really favorable return profiles. But, Chris, some additional color, please.

Thanks, Joel, for the questions.

Yeah. I’ll hit that at a high level and then pass it to Deanna. Just know that Principal remains supportive of the eMPF Business Reform that’s going on there. Our focus continues to remain on a customer experience and making sure that we’re providing fee-based investment options that are most attractive in that marketplace, but this guaranteed component was one that we didn’t necessarily like to return profile. But I’ll have Deanna give you some more insights on the implications on the business.

Yeah. Another key market for PFG for sure. Chris, want to provide some additional insights there?

Hopefully, that helps, Ryan.

Yeah. Go ahead.

Go ahead, Chris.

I mean, one thing to sort of note about these deposits for those people who oftentimes keep their money inside the existing 401(k) plans, it’s because think about those as being institutionally priced. They like those investment options. So leaving money in the plan is clearly one of those options. For those that want to distance themselves from an employer, they can still obtain a rollover IRA with Principal, and again, that’s a very active part of our strategy.

But we also have to remember that there’s a lot of people that are literally drawing down their 401(k) account balances of retirement to live off of and that’s the business that we’re in, and we’re fortunate also to be able to have competitive annuity income options for these individuals. So we’re not surprised, but at the same time, there’s a lot of effort that goes into retaining these assets because, again, we believe we have great solutions for those individuals. But appreciate the question.

Thanks, John. Thanks for a good question.

This is where you wish you had a great crystal ball, which we don’t. Deanna, you want to provide some additional color?

So, Pat, maybe go ahead.

Chris any color?

Thanks for the question, Tom.

Yeah. I appreciate that. And just to pile on Chris’ response there, don’t discount the value creation of what Chris and his team have done around improving the customer experience, continuing to build out total retirement solutions, our ability to gather assets for the asset management part of the organization and feed the rest of the organization. So from our perspective, it’s a very valuable franchise, and Chris and his team have done an excellent job ensuring that the business we serve is a profitable business. We don’t need practice and record keeping.

So that as it relates to Chile, as you know, this has been an ongoing reform discussion. It’s been going on for years. The constitutional reform was not successful. One of the outcomes of that was further conversations around pension reform and we start with doing what’s in the best interest of Chilean people.

And right now what they tell us through surveys and feedback is they want a choice in their provider, they want choice in investment options, and this has been very consistent. So, in fact, effectively, Chileans have rejected the idea of a state-owned AFP providing more value than what the private sector has.

So we continue to be very vigilant, working with regulators, working with the legislators and continue to work in the industry to make sure that what is available in the AFP is competitive from a feed perspective, the investment options, which it is, and continue to serve the best interest of Chileans. But again, we feel reasonably confident on the industry’s ability to demonstrate that and make our case to elected officials. Appreciate the question.

Chris?

There was a fitting way to end this call and have it go to the one person retiring who has probably the most knowledge of any person I know around commercial real estate. It’s Pat. So, Pat, can you provide us with your insights on this one?

Amy, please.

Appreciate that question, Josh.

Yeah. Appreciate that. And thank you for your time today on the call. As you can tell, we’re very confident about our go-forward strategy and the value we’re able to create for our customers and our shareholders. Once again, Pat, thank you for your 40 years of service. You may have a significant contribution -- you’ve made a significant contribution to the company’s success and for our customers, and for that, we’re quite grateful. With that, have a great day. Thank you for taking the time to be part of this call.