Darren Rebelez
Casey's General Stores, Inc. (CASY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Karen, this is Darren, and thank you. Yes, I'll go ahead and start and let Steve fill in some of the detail. Yes, we expect to see a bit of recovery in overall inside margin and we would see that primarily in prepared foods and we think that's for a couple of reasons. We're expecting the inflationary pressure that we've experienced over the last year and a half to settle down a bit. We're currently experiencing some favorability on cheese costs as an example, which as you know is a big input to our prepared food and dispensed beverage margin. So that we expect to continue to improve throughout the year.

On the grocery and general merch side, we started to see some of that inflation subside. There is still some categories like chips and candy, where we're experiencing some inflation. But outside of that, there has been some moderation there. And so we're -- we'll still remain diligent in terms of passing on pricing that's appropriate. And on the prepared food side, we'll be a little more cautious on that effort on the commodity side, because we don't want to whipsaw the guest and we want to make sure we maintain a relative value proposition.

Steve, any color to that?

Yes, Karen. I think whether you add labor or take-away labor depends largely on where you're starting. And for us, we felt like we were always staffing our stores appropriately to meet the guests' needs and we continue to believe that. But what we were able to identify is that we had some unproductive hours in the stores and we had some labor or activities rather that we were doing in the stores it just didn't need to occur in the store anymore. We could pull that activity out of the stores and move it upstream where we can do it more efficiently,

And so, we've been on a concerted effort over the last year to do exactly that. We've been able to reduce the number of unproductive hours as we would call it and take those out. And in fact, our overall satisfaction scores as we measure them through a third-party have actually improved, while we've done that, because we've not only freed up those hours and taken some of that to the bank, but we've also given some of those hours back to the store, so they can focus more on the guest experience.

So we feel very comfortable with where we're at now. And again for this next fiscal year, we still have our continuous improvement team in place who are going to continue to pursue finding more opportunities to operate our stores more efficiently.

Well, Anthony. Yes, with the gallon guidance, I mean, there's a lot going on right now in the world, and you're right, we are -- if you just look at the first quarter last year when gas prices spiked over $5 a gallon, there was a bit of demand destruction there, but then things fell off and got a little bit more normalized, it's been a little bit choppy.

As we go into this year, obviously, there's a lot of macroeconomic headwinds going on that could have an impact on gallons to the negative. At the same time, we do think that because we've outperformed our relevant benchmarks in our geography, we think we have some potential to grow gallons as well, so we're trying to be appropriately conservative. We've given ourselves some room to grow gallons in the guidance and also are being somewhat pragmatic about the fact that if we go into recession and the economy changes that we could see some softness. It's just a little bit too early to tell. So that's how we landed on the guidance that we did.

Yes, for the inside of the store, we're expecting to see still good growth on the grocery and general merchandise side, probably a little bit softer on the prepared food and dispensed beverage, simply because of what we're cycling. So we've been up over 13% on a two-year comp. So this would be the third year in a row that we're cycling really aggressive costs. We're not expecting a lot on the pricing side from inflation, particularly in prepared foods, we took a lot of price last year to cover commodity costs. And so we're trying to maintain more of a relevant value proposition for our guests, especially as the economy starts to tighten.

On the grocery and general merch side, we're still going to see some inflationary impact from tobacco and that's just kind of normal course. And like I said, we are seeing some inflation in some categories, but we're also seeing that moderate. And in fact, when we look at alcohol and the beer category in particular, we're expecting that to be a little more price-competitive this summer with some temporary price reductions from the manufacturers. So that could be actually a little bit deflationary.

Yes. Ben with the unit growth of 110 units for this year, as we model it out at the beginning of the year, we kind of think that's an even split between organic and M&A. And now, having said that, a lot can happen in 12 months in the M&A world. So I'll leave myself a little bit of wiggle room based on potential transactions that could occur, that mix could change. But we feel very confident in the 110 units, regardless of how we do that.

And from an organic standpoint, we feel very good about our pipeline and we've got the sites identified and it's just a matter of building them right now. We're on a better cadence this year, I would say than we were last year. We're feeling better about the supply chain, the permitting component of that equation is starting to get a little bit more ratable. So -- but we feel a little better about the cadence of growth throughout the year on the organic side.

On the M&A side, we feel really good about our pipeline and we're having a lot of good discussions with potential sellers. The timing of those tends to be lumpy as you all know. So it's hard to pigeonhole those into any type of quarterly cadence. But we definitely feel good about the pipeline on both organic and inorganic, and we're confident we'll be able to easily get to that 110 number.

Yes, Ben, I guess, the first thing I'd tell you is, we have made an organization-wide commitment to controlling operating expenses and being very disciplined about that. And so that is as I said, that's an organization-wide effort and I think you saw the results of that effort in this past fiscal year. So you can expect that, kind of, effort from us moving forward. Having said that, I think in terms of the components, when we look at our G&A, we're essentially keeping G&A flat for the year. And so that's a big step in the right direction.

And from a store standpoint, we have our continuous improvement team like I've mentioned before that is doing a lot of great work. And so we expect to continue to see a reduction in same-store labor hours this year as we did in the previous year. And on the rest of the equation, we expect to be able to continue to pursue opportunities to leverage our scale and our purchasing power to drive more efficiencies in the business.

Steve, anything else you want to add?

Yes, Ben. I just add one other thing and we've mentioned it before on previous calls. We've also made a concerted effort around controlling our turnover and reducing our turnover and we've had really good success in that over the year end. This past quarter was no different and in the quarter, we saw a 20% reduction in overtime hours, 20% reduction in training hours. And so we expect to continue to work that turnover down. And as a result of that, we'll lower some of those training costs and overtime hours as well.

Good morning.

Yes, Bonnie. On gallons, I guess, I would start with the fourth quarter. Our gallons were flat in the quarter by the mid-continent OPIS data that we saw gallons were down about 2.5% for that same three-month period. So from that perspective, I would say that even though we were flat, we're probably taking share versus some others in our geography. One of the dynamics that we're seeing that's impacting gallon volume is the softness in diesel fuel volume and that's really a result of what we've seen happen in the economy over the last few months with softening retail sales, construction starts, kind of, slowing down. And so you're just seeing less trucks on the road.

So we saw a reduction in our diesel volume low-single-digits. And now, that's only 14% of our fuel mix. But when its down it does have an impact. Now on the gasoline side, we are seeing a bit of an increase. So when you mix all that out, it came out flat in the quarter, but that's what's really driving some of the softness right now that we're seeing.

Yes. The private brand growth has been phenomenal really, and we're still very bullish on that. Over the course of the year, we saw about 31% growth actually in the quarter, 31% growth in private-label over last year. And as you mentioned, our unit share is just under 10% and our gross profit dollars share is just over 10%. So we're really, really feel good about the contribution that's had and that mix has grown about 100 basis points from the same period last year. So everything's kind of working in the right direction on private label.

The categories is probably been the best, our chips, frankly, in fact, we saw over 80% growth in chips and took about 500 basis points of share in the most recent quarter in our chip category and we're also seeing a lot of good success in bottle water. But what I would tell you is that, I think the price increases that we've taken from the national brands over the past year have really put us spotlight on the value proposition for private brands, has really widened that price delta between the two. And so as consumers get a little more penny pinched, they're starting to look for those private brands. And so that's why you saw the mix increase. We expect to add another 40 items into the assortment over the course of the next calendar year and we will continue to grow that business.

Steve, I don't know if you have any break down of private-label contributions.

Well, Bobby, that's a tricky question. I'm not sure what normal looks like anymore, if you put it in the context of the last four years. I don't know. To a certain extent, I would just fall back on what we've done historically and say we've grown EBITDA at an 8% to 10% CAGR pretty consistently over a long period of time, and that's been through a lot of different economic cycles.

So if I were going to anchor on anything, I would say, I think that's a long track record of performance where we've been able to stay in that type of range. Really regardless of how the economy is performing. Now quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, that may fluctuate a bit. But over a longer period of time, I think that's a pretty safe place to anchor yourself on. And so I don't see anything on the horizon that will prevent us from continuing to do that. And we'll talk about this more on our Investor Day, but no, we feel very good about the future and so. I guess that's the best answer I think I can come up with Bobby, is that what you're kind of looking for?

Well, I think first, I think they started to moderate on the price increases that they're passing on to us. And so I think some of that is a reflection of just inflation overall starting to subside. Some of it is a reflection of the fact that our private brand mix has grown continuously. And we have really good relationships with our major suppliers, and we have great conversations with them about this subject.

In some cases, they make some of the private label for us. In other cases, they probably wish we didn't have it. But yes, I think as we continue to have success with it, we continue to challenge each other to find ways to grow the entire pie. Our goal with private label isn't to reduce sales of national brands. Our goal in private label is to meet the needs of consumers that are looking for more affordable high-quality options. And so we seek to offer that to those guests. And at the same time, we do a lot of great work with our national brand suppliers to make sure we're satisfying the needs of those guests as well.

And so -- yes, we have good discussions. That's all part of our joint business planning process that we've been implementing for the last few years. And as you can see with our inside sales numbers, it's been pretty successful.

Yes, Kelly, if you look at -- if you look at the composition of our same-store sales last quarter, we were up 6.5% in inside same-store, about 6% of that was from price and about 0.5% of that was from traffic. And so we feel really good about the fact that we're generating positive traffic, albeit just a little bit, but it is positive. And we're also seeing that dynamic play out in the first quarter as well with positive traffic. So as the pricing kind of moderates as we cycle over some of that inflationary pressure, we shifted our focus more towards driving traffic, and we're starting to see the benefit of that.

Good morning.

Yes. Sure. Irene, I'll go ahead and start with the consumer. I'll let Steve talk to M&A. With the consumer, I think we all recognize that the economy started to soften a bit and so we started to see some consumer behavior from a more macro perspective. When you look at our consumer base, I'll just remind everybody that a couple of things. One, is about three-quarters of our consumers earn over $50,000 a year. And that's significant in the fact that -- of the geography that we operate in the most expensive state we operate in is ranked 20 seconds in terms of cost of living. And seven of the bottom 10 states are in our geography.

So $50,000 goes lot further in our geography than in many others around the country. So with that as a backdrop, what we're seeing from the consumer in our stores is pretty consistent behavior for that group, that three-quarters of the group that are earning $50,000 or more, not any real significant shifts in buying behavior. With the group that's that other 25%, call it, that's earning less than $50,000 a year, we are seeing some shifts certainly shifting more towards private label. Reducing some of discretionary purchases, think lottery and some ice cream novelty, that sort of thing. But they're also shifting those purchases over to more affordable indulgence like candy.

We're also starting to see some behavior where they're leaning a little more into our freezer section of buying individual meals and that may be in lieu of going to a QSR occasion as well. So we are seeing a bit of that shifting around the store. But again, our traffic has been positive. So we haven't seen any sort of behavior that would suggest that the consumers not shopping. And this is one of the beauties of our business model. We sell basic needs for people. And so these are things that people have to have. And so they're going to continue to come. They're just made behave a little bit differently. But at this point, it's really been the low-income consumer that's been most impacted.

Yes, Chuck. Shrink is always a concern in our stores and our business. I would say that so far, we have not seen any real shift in shrink versus where we've been historically. And I know there's a lot of talk out in the industry about strength, but we just have not experienced that yet in our stores at this point.

Well, Chuck, what we've experienced is essentially, kind of, flat sales from a dollar perspective and kind of mid-single-digit erosion in unit volume. And so the pricing that we've been able to pass on has essentially covered the cost increases plus maybe $0.01 or $0.02 a pack. So from a dollar standpoint, it's holding steady, but from a margin rate perspective, it does it does put a little bit of pressure on the grocery and general merch category. I don't know exactly what that impact is, Steve, I don't know if we actually.

Yes. It's just John, that we just had some wholesale cost increases and decreases, and it has been volatile. And then of course, we're not alone in this, there's a competitive set. And so we have to stay competitive with others in the market. And sometimes that overall dynamic between cost increases and competitive pricing posture allows us to make more margin in some situations and less margin than others.

And so we've had -- it's probably been a little bit more extreme month-to-month than we would see historically. I would just point you to the last four months, the three months in our last fiscal quarter and then May. Two of those months were in the low-30s, two of those months are low-40s and so typically, the spread is not that much, but I'd say there's nothing unusual in the world that's driving that, just continued competitive activity and wholesale cost fluctuations.

Yes, Jessica. From a competitive standpoint, we do see some competitors still continuing to take price. And I would say particularly among the smaller operators that dynamic is not all that different than fuel, where they don't have a lot of levers to pull, so they're pulling the price lever to try to offset higher costs across the board. So we are seeing some of that.

From a supplier perspective, it really depends on the type of supplier in the industry and the categories that they're in. I think we're seeing an interesting mix of some suppliers that still believe they have the ability to pass on more price. And so the -- we are seeing a little bit of that. That has certainly moderated from where it was a year ago. We see others, like I mentioned before, in the beer category who are looking to be a little more aggressive this year, and we expect them to be battling over share. And so we're expecting some price off on that category. So a little bit of a mixed bag from that perspective.

In Pizza, we've done pretty well. Our slices, the units are -- have actually been growing. Whole pies have been a little bit soft from a unit perspective, but we've taken pretty significant pricing in that category. But overall, we're just kind of flat to maybe a little bit negative in that category. So -- and that compares pretty favorably to what we see in our pizza competitive set. We are starting to see some more promotional activity from the major pizza competitors as they all try to get some unit velocity back we're taking a fairly conservative approach on that.

We are doing some promotional activity, but we feel like we're line priced pretty competitively in the base case. So we don't have to discount too aggressively. We have more of an everyday low-price approach, and that seems to work pretty well for us.

All right. Thank you, and thanks for taking the time today to join us on the call. I'd also like to thank our team members once again for their contributions and delivering another record year. And we look forward to seeing everybody on Investor Day on June 27.