Dave Calhoun
The Boeing Company (BA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi Peter.

Yes, Peter, I appreciate that. By the way, one stat which I was just handed, which I track all the time is the number of our -9s that have been returned into service. We're at 129, and that is progressing at a very quick rate based on the inspection protocols that are FAA and we all agreed with.

I am very proud of the progress that we've made, and I feel great about it, of course, with one exception, and it's too big an exception, which is the escape. I also know that as the NTSB investigation narrows and concludes, and I do believe that will happen in relatively short order, all the learning that can be extracted from it and all the learning that can be extracted from all those inspections of all those airplanes flying day in and day out, that will inform us on what improvements we can make on our quality systems.

First and foremost, we will run the door plug literally from the second a door is received at Wichita through their lines, all 12 positions, through our 11 positions here. Inspections will be added at every turn. It is on lockdown, and we've had help from our FAA. We've had help from our customers, et cetera. So, that's sort of step two.

The next one is how do you take all of that learning and apply it through all the supply chain lines. And we have some medium- and long-term efforts just beginning to make sure that we do that.

My confidence comes from quality systems always can get better. And when you have a moment like this, you take everything. You literally look at everything, and we're all keenly aware of everything.

So, we're going to run that play as hard as we can, and we're going to take the time to do it and the FAA -- I'm sort of glad they called out a pause because that's a good excuse to just take our time, do it right and I wish I had called that out in the first day, but maybe I would have.

We've been good at taking pauses. I've probably taken more pauses in the last three years, and I'll apologize to all our investors now, than have been taken in 10 years before it. But this is what we do, and it's how we get better.

And I also say, Peter, as you know, one of the nagging issues that we've been facing have been shortages here and there, where we have to pause our line. Buffer inventory is not quite as robust as we'd like them to be based on supply chain weaknesses.

We will run our master schedule in accordance with the plans that preceded this. And each and every part we receive and all the buffer inventories that we get will stabilize production here on out, less traveled work in our line, all things good come from that.

So, I feel really good about it. And I also have confidence in our airplanes that will be certified. I like the respect that the FAA and Boeing are showing one another. Again, maybe too long a diatribe, but there are lots of reasons for why I'm feeling good. And in some ways, this moment will accelerate recovery, not delay it.


Yes. So, Peter, as we've talked many, many, many times, we have stood by our customers in China day in, day out. They have been flying MAXs now for the better part of the year. They are performing extremely well.

And we'd always hoped and expected they would begin to take deliveries. And I think everybody has noticed that those deliveries have started. So, we are just going to stay diligent, stay with each and every one of them and make sure our Chinese customers get what they've ordered and paid for.

Sheila, thanks for that question. I'm going to just give a little bit of a moment on why we made that decision on the time-limited exemption. I'll let Brian help quantify it. I visited Capitol Hill for a lot of reasons. My biggest one is to own the problem, be transparent and convey that to all of our workforce so that they know we're willing to do that. And then we can all be honest, clear with each other every step of the way in this process and so I'm glad I made the visit.

I was not expecting when I met with Senator Duckworth, the conversation that we had. You know she's a pilot and a decorated pilot. She listened to everything I had to say. We didn't have a debate about the safety of the 7 and the 7 in its certification work was moving along at a pretty steady pace.

She had a way different argument for me, and it was right. She said, you want to introduce this new airplane, a derivative, yes, but a new airplane. And nine months from now, you'll have an engineered solution to it, to this issue. And why is that the right call? And in my view, it was a sound, principled position to take.

I went home for the weekend. I talked to our customer, and you know who that is, unbelievably constructive, and this is the right thing to do for aviation. So, that is really how it happened, and it was that simple.

But the passion and the argument that Senator Duckworth presented to me, I'm so glad I heard. Anyway, that's what happened. The 7 will have to move until we get that engineered fix in place. And then I'll let Brian sort of quantify the, okay, now what.


Good morning Seth.

Maybe I'll just add and refresh everybody's memory because we've talked about it a couple of times. In our shadow factories, we put more hours into those airplanes than we do to produce it in the first place. So, anyway, that's a metric I know everybody understands.

Hi Doug.

Doug, I'll just start by saying I think it's manageable. We will have this -- if there's a delay in any way, we're not going to know at the last second. We're going to know with a considerable timeframe in my view.

And by the way, right now, the status on the 7 and the 10 was progressing reasonably well. I don't believe the FAA has taken anybody off the course, and we haven't taken anybody off the course and so they are making real progress.

And I think we were almost close to the finish line had we not pulled the time-limited exemption. So, I don't -- again, I'm never going to suggest a date or anything like that for the FAA. But they're working diligently on it, and they know how to separate these two -- these -- the issue we're wrestling within our factory from the cert efforts.

And I believe we're going to have plenty of time, and we'll be able to manage our product mix reasonably well. There won't be anything dramatic by way of change. If there are some change from quarter-to-quarter, first or second, you'll know it pretty early, and so will we and I think it's quite manageable.

Thanks Doug.

Well, Ron, it's a -- it should never happen. So, the question about now is not so relevant. It should never and can never happen. I am incredibly proud of the work that our people do on the 37 line. I think it has steadily progressed. Quality numbers have gotten better.

But when you have an escape and then when everybody concludes exactly what happened in that escape, lights another fire. So, you take another step forward with respect to all things quality.

And you make certain that whatever it was that created that opportunity for failure in the sky or in flight can never happen again. And that has already happened, and then we'll learn from everything. So, yes, I think I understand your underlying context for the question, but I probably take exception to that premise.


I think that is an accurate statement that you just made. Given the fact that we made this decision just a couple of days ago, needless to say, we will throw more engineers at it. We're going to put more work in it and can accelerate it.

And the nine months that I discussed with Senator Duckworth was based on my understanding of that project before I made this decision. So, the answer is yes, we'll step up resources. We'll step up whatever testing is required. We will do everything we can to inform the FAA about that particular part of that program. So, -- and that's where we stand today. And you are correct. That is the pole in the tent. All of us should be watching.


Hey Noah.

One at a time, and yes.

Noah Poponak

Okay. And then, Brian, just one more, defense. The margin is still not where you want it but better sequentially. Any framework you can provide around how that progresses through 2024? And what was the final defense cash burn in the 2023 cash, so we can think about where -- what to work off of as we go into 2024.

Right. okay.

Thanks Noah. Thanks everyone.

