David Ricks
Eli Lilly and Co (LLY) Q4 2023 Earnings Conference Call Transcript

Yes, happy to answer that. Of course, as we enter this phase of really strong growth in the Incretins, we're very focused on allocating capital, but top priority is creating new capacities. The gating factors are not really financial for us right now, so you can expect us to be investing fully. We're not slowing down because of cash flow or whatever. It's really a function of the technical capacities, both in people and in suppliers to be able to bring facilities online.

That's particularly true in the parenteral side. Now you're referencing Orforglipron. Here, we do plan to build ahead of Phase III at risk. I think, given the probability we assess internally as well as the opportunity on the other side of a positive Phase III, we see that as a wise investment. And as we've commented on before, it relies, as you would know, on very different assets inside Lilly as well as outside of Lilly. So here you have organic chemistry, API and tablets and capsules, so a pretty different setup.

So we can -- we're paralleling that with our robust injectable investments. And if we're wrong, okay, we'll have to eat that in the end for isn't a strong product. But if it is, I think it does begin to change the math on supply in this category, and I think that's about worth taking.

For that I can start, Patrik, jump in. Yes, thanks for the question. The idea was really actually borne out of the challenges patients faced every day in the U.S. and sometimes seeing doctors. And you'll know we have a Doctor Finder tool as well as telehealth partners on the platform for migraine, diabetes, and obesity. Finding medicines and their pharmacies, that's been a challenge. And I think particularly as supplies are tight, many patients report driving to 5, 6, 7 pharmacies to find the medicine they need. This simplifies that process.

And then I think in addition, there's been a lot of noise about drugs that are illicit or copies or compounded versions of Zepbound or other weight loss drugs and that's concerning to us. And I think it's concerning to patients. So by going to Lilly Direct literally, they have confidence in the supply. And finally, application of our savings programs has also been a challenge at the pharmacy counter and that happens 100% of the time on Lilly Direct.

We haven't thought about it as a way to create some new retail distribution business. It's a way to serve the patients that want our medicines better. That's sort of the frame we're in now. Early days. We're trying to develop it to be smoother, better, include more products over time, have better information about physicians and telehealth providers. So look for more developments there, but good start so far. A lot of energy and enthusiasm from the patient community.

I would frame like why I said that, but maybe Specific DDI question in the SGLT2 coadministration. I just said that because we're just starting the Phase III. And we all know small molecule, there's a bit of empiricism in terms of eliminating safety risk. And of course, every day, as we expose more patients to the drug and we have higher doses, that's a good day where we don't announce that the drug has a problem.

At some point, we reached a lot of confidence. We just weren't at that point. We're not at it now. I think we're running the Phase III experiment and we need to discharge the off-target safety that is inherent in small molecule discovery, and we've seen in this class from others. But nothing specific on my mind. Maybe Dan can further reassure us.

Yes, maybe I'll give it a shot. Thanks for the question, James. As I mentioned on the earlier question related to Orforglipron, we are not -- we don't think of ourselves as capital-constrained, buying or building in the space. The reality is there just isn't built capacity that's available.

Most of it that's being used is already deployed against the leading products in the GLP-1 space, at least any at scale and new capacity has a lead time of three to four years. So all of the things that are coming online now, like we mentioned today, are very large site in Concord, North Carolina. That's a big node of capacity for the sector and certainly for Lilly.

I mean, that was announced two and a half years ago and it will just begin production at the end of this year. So that's the problem. And why is that? Well, of course, greenfield building is difficult, repurposing is difficult, but also these are technically complex facilities. There's not an infinite number of people who know how to set them up.

And the supply chain for the machines that make the products is also constrained. So at this point, I don't think there's an easy way forward. And I think even in yesterday's announcements, we have a lot of questions about that. But I think even the purchaser or our competitors said it will take many years for them to be able to increase capacity within that purchase.

So it's just not an easy problem to solve. I think that over time, it will ease. There'll be more capacity brought online by us, our competitor and maybe others, including third parties and new technology will emerge like Orforglipron or other oral options, that tap into a different asset base. So I know it's frustrating for investors, it's frustrating for us. It's even more frustrating for patients but it's just sort of the situation we're in is that we steady gains in manufacturing over the coming several years and perhaps bigger gains after that.

Yes, absolutely. That's good, Joe. Thanks. We appreciate everyone participating today and, of course, your interest in the company. 2023 was a really productive year for Lilly, and we look forward to continued momentum in 2024 with a strong guide today. Thanks again for dialing in. And please follow up with Joe and the IR team if you have additional questions that weren't answered. Thanks.