David Rush
Builders FirstSource, Inc. (BLDR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I would just add, Matt, that conversations with customers are almost uniformly optimistic for the year. There are differences in when they believe that timing of that rebound will start, and that's all obviously driven by the macro environment to a degree. And the digital ad that we'll experience during the year will be more like a hockey stick.

It will be weighted to the back half of the year as we continue to drive adoption and training throughout the organization and with our customers. But we're excited about the year as a whole. It's a little more difficult to pinpoint the exact point in time when we start seeing it in real time. But the long-term demand still is very, very encouraging.

And I would tell you, you're exactly right; our sales teams that have focused on the larger projects partly because their customers are also looking for opportunities in the smaller projects that still qualified technically as multifamily or light commercial. We're all focused on those opportunities and those will help us bridge that headwind a little easier for the rest of the year. But it still takes a little bit of time for those projects to get out of the ground. And the timing of that makes it a little difficult, but only focused on that opportunity.

I mean, lumber and truss go hand-in-hand together, but value-added is more than truss. I think that's the thing you get from the mind. So value added is later in the process.

And what I would add is our belief in the resilience of that range and the fact that we can hold within that range is our belief in our value-added product portfolio and solutions. Those are the products that are more valuable to our customers and as a result, more have a better margin opportunity for us. And as we continue to grow that as a percentage of our overall sales is always going to help that gross margin number be more resilient.

I would just add, remember, it's only 13% of our overall business. The other thing I would add is we were at the Harvard Housing Conference, and there were multifamily players there. And it's a cost of capital challenge in addition to all of the multifamily that had been constructed over the last 12 to 18 months is coming to market all at the same time. So there's a little bit of a digestion of that in addition to solving the capital cost equation.

But again, just like in single-family, the long-term outlook for multifamily is very positive when you look at the demand curve and what people need housing and what multifamily satisfies for that population. So long term, we're still very positive on the business. And we do know we'll have to manage some of the cost -- the capital challenges at or there today. But again, 13% of our business.

I would tell you the other differentiation we have is not just adding locations, it's actually improving the throughput of the locations we already own. We've invested over $100 million in existing plants. Over 65% of our tables have some level of automation. Every plant has some level of automation. So there's a lot of different ways we can extend our lead without building physical plant to do so, and we're focused on that as well.

I would just add from a customer sentiment perspective, the national biller, customers are seeing increased foot traffic. And more importantly, the foot traffic that they are seeing are more apt to actually buy a home. So the percentage of closings to people looking, I feel like is gaining traction and their ability to match up available inventory and monthly mortgage payment to demand is -- they've done a great job with that.

Now where we need a little help from the Fed mortgage rates would be to get the non-national builder customer in an arena where the cost of the mortgage is helping to drive that demand to them. So that less so, but we expect that to be what is the first off the sidelines when we get that movement, but the national builders have done a good job in the existing environment.

Also, I think, taken advantage of capacity availability to lean into it as well, and that's a different component than others might have.

