David Constable
Fluor Corporation (FLR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, it looks like we'll continue on the track we've been on for the past couple of years. We have a lot of prospects in front of us across all the business segments. And I would expect when you think about book to burn, we've been messaging, I think last year we were messaging one or above. I think we'll continue to see that and we've been over performing on our go get factored numbers.

So we're pretty comfortable that 2024 is going to be shaping similar or possibly better than '22 and '23. We looked at the results of our hit rates at the company in '23 and they were really strong. And I think that has a lot to do with our project pursuit criteria. We're going after projects. We hit 78% of the prospects we went after in 2023, just a phenomenal number.

And note that, that is with bringing in 140 basis points above our backlog in margin. So not only hitting on a lot of them, but improving the margin as well. And I expect that to continue. It's a seller's market right now. Thanks, Steve.

So having recently traveled there, I think I was there in November talking with various clients, SABIC, Aramco, Modine on the mining side and very bullish right now in Saudi Arabia. We see this as a real growth engine for the company, and we are extremely well-positioned for not only the mining work with [indiscernible], but liquids to chemicals programs, where they are shifting obviously from a lower automotive fuel requirement to high margin chemicals.

And we are getting started with customers over there. And you'll see it in a ramp up of massive amounts of home office engineering hours, which deliver a good margin for Fluor as we help them with our technical their technical solutions where they really look to us. That's the value we're adding here to get these projects off on the right track and then continue and help manage them through the completion. And they are, as you mentioned massive-massive programs. And that's what we're looking at getting kicked off right now.

So confidence wise, I'd say we're very confident that the programs we're getting involved with are going to be going forward. There's a lot to say grace over these projects. So it's not going to be just one contractor, it will be multiple contractors supporting their business plans.

The nuclear space continues to be something we are supporting both in support of through the NuScale Small and Module Reactor Technology, but also on conventional nuclear facilities right now. And in fact, a good portion of our nuclear opportunities are in Eastern Europe as those countries Bulgaria, Romania, Poland looked towards energy independence, energy security in that part of the world.

So we are busy on opportunities there in SMRs, for example, in Romania, that I believe right now is moving into a feed position for us, taking the lead there. And we're also, like I said, looking at a couple of conventional units in Romania actually on a reimbursable basis. So post COP28 nuclear the focus on nuclear is very high. And as we previously stated, we're really looking forward to supporting NuScale's commercialization efforts in the small modular reactor space and we're excited about our prospects there as they start to come to fruition both in the U.S. and overseas, particularly in Europe and Eastern Europe.

Yes. We do have a position in data centers. Certainly in Asia right now where we're doing some big programs in data centers. And we see that continue. I think I did maybe quickly mention data centers as part of the advanced technologies and life sciences opportunities in my prepared remarks. So we definitely are focused on data centers. It's with everything going on in the world, data and data processing via data centers is going to be a big market for Fluor and also upstream of that the power generation required to drive those data centers. So, yes, definitely we'll start to feature more in our plans going forward.

Yes, we do, right? So a key focus in addition to data centers, right, our semiconductor, the semiconductor space and in the pharma space. I think you probably, we've all seen yesterday's news about the CHIPS Act funding starting to flow. Right? I think it was put in place in 2022, but we're finally starting to see some good flow there.

And, so we see that as very positive. And I think more than 170 companies have applied for grants and we've got some key clients that we're staying close to in that space and I think we're probably going to hear more, as you probably read, we hear more about money flowing into the chip -- into the semiconductor space and big awards coming out possibly before the state of the union address in March.

So we're staying close to all those key clients. We've got current work in Asia. We've got work in semiconductors in the U.S. and so very bullish on that market. And pharmaceuticals, just really getting going on the diabetes drugs and the weight loss drugs with two very key clients that we have that we're working with right now.

And those are just those, the size of those pharmaceutical projects are just dwarf what the market has, what that space has been used to. What that industry has been used to. These are multibillion-dollar efforts that require project execution, sales product management skills that Fluor can bring. So a great time to be in the pharmaceutical space as well. And we have a long history there, as you know.

Well, you're definitely correct there, right? It is the number one focus area for the company, Michael, across the management team and across all the businesses is getting the right people at the right places at the right time. And like I think Joe said, we've hired about 5,000 people in '23. Net-net, it's not that much because we as projects come down in certain regions of the world, we'll have to let folks go. But overall, we're trying to redeploy as many as possible, to support this growth that we're seeing. So yes, I would expect to see probably another 5,000 hired this year or thereabouts. And that continuing on that track.

So now with the sale of Stork, you'll see our numbers dropping, head count dropping somewhat. And, which is fine. But it's, with all the puts and takes of the projects, I'd say you'll start to see the head count ramping up again. But we're being very cost effective at the same time as far as overhead count goes. So I think on the Saudi Arabia specifically, on the work in the Middle East, the ramp-up is spread across various offices, not -- we need multiple -- we need to Fluor's global strength to be able to execute those types of programs for those clients.

So you'll see work going into Amsterdam. You'll see work going into the U.K. You'll see work going into Texas and Houston, and into our execution centers in Delhi and the Philippines to be able to handle all of that. All those hours that are coming at us. So that's where we're at right now.

It's been, it's been so gratifying to see that driving growth across the portfolio strategic priority, over delivering, right? We wanted to make sure that we didn't have all our eggs in the traditional and gas basket back in late 2020 when we set the strategy. Not that we don't want traditional oil and gas to continue, we know it is, and we are right there supporting it and doing very well on the traditional side and now, obviously, in an energy transition across the company.

But, what we said was we really wanted to grow in the markets, based on those megatrends that we saw in front of us, urbanization and energy transition and big data, Industry 4.0, everything was really being -- really leaning into the Urban Solutions space. And we've seen that through Mining & Metals with obviously copper being a big play in those megatrends but also ATLS as well.

So if you think about the backlog right now, it's, these are approximate numbers, right? We've got $10 billion in Energy Solutions, about $15 billion in Urban Solutions now, right? So, and then the remainder $4 billion or so is in Mission Solutions to get up to your $29 billion. And that Mining is $7.5 billion of that backlog, ATLS is about $3 billion. Infra is at $4 billion. And we're starting to come along in plant and facility services as well, where we're starting to bring a higher level of service including digital solutions to our operations and maintenance offering. And we've got some good prospects on the horizon there.

So, as far as margins go, maybe Joe can comment on Urban Solutions margins with that type of backlog and what we're expecting. As you know, our guidance that we're putting out there right now is the 3% to 4%. But it's, as you mentioned, it's the Infrastructure that we've got to work through that as well.

Yes. Mission Solutions can be very lumpy with these massive long-term 10, 20-year contracts, of course, we hit one in late 2022 with Savannah River that was a very large program. So that's, again, that was a lumpy year because of '22, but those will continue to come around. I think on Pantex to your question, we're expecting an award I'd say second quarter to third quarter 2024, but before the election. So maybe that's the best timing I can give you there.

But we're really excited about Mission Solutions and the future that we've got being such a strong Department of Energy contractor and picking up speed in the defense space and our LOGCAP work in Africa and supporting the troops out of Germany, we see really great opportunities in DOE and DOD. And of course, FEMA comes along.

We've just been awarded that Eastern U.S. East Coast FEMA contract as well, which will continue to, as things occur, drive revenue. So I think that's where we're at with Mission Solutions. And like I said, very positive, and we've moved towards national security and brought in some new management capabilities in national security in the defense and intelligence space, where we're pretty excited about some prospects there as well. Those are prospects we don't talk about publicly, but they are very exciting and quite sizable. So that's where we're heading in Mission Solutions.

So I'll just add to that, Michael. And again, yes, as Joe said, organically, we're just investing in our people, right? And attracting training and developing, but also our systems and by way of example, offices, this growth, we're going to be opening a Delhi satellite office. We've got three new offices in Houston. And so that will continue.

On the M&A side, really just think about it as niche bolt-ons to further the business as appropriate, potentially in Mission Solutions as a first wave. So, that's where we're at right now. And as things continue to go in the right direction, as we've been seeing here, then we start, of course, talking to the Board about dividends and share buybacks and things like that.

Yes. The projects that we work on other than maybe some energy transition developers that would need some financing, which they've been somewhat successful at. But our key client base, if you will, that we deal with use their balance sheet. So, and our clients look through the short-term challenges of economic and geopolitical challenges.

And they play the long game, right? So, as I look at the client CapEx across just a sampling of Fluor's, say, 10 clients that I took a look at here a couple of weeks ago, their CapEx for 2024 is holding strong, up. Some of them are up. But just those tenants are going to spend about $110 billion in CapEx.

I think they expect to spend $125 billion in annually, $125 billion in the out years. So with quite a bit of that $20 billion in energy transition, where, again, we are well-positioned and are, as I said, working on over 200 projects in energy transition. So I think we're in a very good space. You take BHP this morning that came out and said, well, the Nickels not doing well for them. So they're pivoting to copper and iron ore and potash, which is right in our wheelhouse. So, and they didn't change their CapEx guidance.

So I just think that interest rates are less of a concern for Fluor and our prospects. And then you've got, of course, the Mission Solutions clients that are spending in our space in DOD, DOE and say, TxDOT, one of our key infrastructure customers, they've spent $279 billion last year and $292 billion in 2024.

So there's so much to say grace over. We just need to be careful that we don't bring too much work in. We have to make sure we've got the resources, the A teams to execute these projects and be very selective, and get paid for the value that we bring and the best opportunities.

All right. Thank you, operator. Many thanks to all of you for participating on the call today. Based on our performance, it's evident that we are well-positioned to leverage the progress we've made over the past three years, and we expect that this will drive significant value for Fluor shareholders for years to come. So again, we appreciate your interest in Fluor Corporation, and thank you again for your time.