The Cigna Group (CI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

David Cordani

Thank you. Good morning. It's David. You have a lot in that question. And I appreciate it. Let me try to address some of the high points. First and foremost, we are really pleased with the nature of the transaction we're able to structure with HCSC. We see it as a win-win. And it's a clarification to our strategy within our portfolio.

As I noted in my prepared remarks while we view the market as an attractive growth market. The required capital investment resources focus relative to its size within our portfolio, coupled with the continued elevated regulatory environment, our decision was it was best to enter this transaction.

Point two is, very importantly, we've been quite deliberate now for several years, working to expand the service portfolio and the value proposition within Evernorth for health plan partners as it relates to their government services, be it Medicare, be it duals, be it Medicaid, et cetera.

And we're demonstrating a very attractive proven track record of growing our government reach but through the services franchise, and we will continue to fuel that on a go-forward basis and see that as an attractive trajectory for us.

As it relates to your latter part of your question, I'll reframe our M&A criteria. I want to make sure I put that in the context of our capital deployment criteria. We continue to view, first, capital deployment priorities, investing in our business. Brian referenced the CapEx deployment of about $1.5 billion. Second, we always evaluate M&A for its appropriate attributes, which I'll come back to in a moment. And then third, returning capital to shareholders. And as Brian noted, in 2024, in addition to raising our dividend by 14%, we expect to return the majority of our excess capital to shareholders through share repurchase with at least $5 billion in the first half of the year.

Lastly, in your action pack question, as we think about the criteria for transactions, we think about three criteria: first, strategic attraction; second, financial attraction; and then third, overall path to clarity. So is it strategically aligned? Is it financially attractive?

And as a final note, when we think about the financial piece of the equation, you evaluate each deal on its own respective merits. But seeking to get high visibility in terms of your value creation for your organization if you're going to enter into a transaction.

So to repeat, we're pleased with the decision and the transaction design. We will continue in a long-term service relationship with HCSC that further expands our proven track record within Evernorth. We see the Evernorth service portfolio as an attractive capital-light high visibility way to grow this portfolio. And as we have in the past, we will maintain very strong discipline for capital deployment and our 2024 capital deployment priorities are quite clear. Thanks.

Steve, good morning, it's David. You're asking for a 10-year crystal ball. I think in the dynamism of the marketplace, most people come back to in terms of rolling three-year views of a given market. But stepping back, first and foremost, the Medicare Advantage offering, broadly speaking, in the marketplace is a very attractive offering for seniors. And it has a long-term proven track record of delivering attractive benefits.

And importantly, clinical coordination when you get to the Medicare beneficiaries, typically dealing with a higher level of clinical burden that's necessary for coordination. And the care outcomes, the quality outcomes, the overall value outcomes are positive. So broadly speaking, from a societal standpoint, we see MA as an important asset for the U.S. to continue to be served, supported financially and grow.

Secondly, the marketplace will see ebbs and flows in terms of the funding mechanism. We see the early look at the rate letter at the moment in time. That's a moment in time, either acceleration or potentially deceleration for that marketplace.

Third is, if you look at the senior satisfaction level, NPS broadly - Net Promoter Score broadly is attractive for Medicare Advantage. Therefore, as I noted previously to A.J.'s point, we worked really aggressively to ensure that we have a broad and we will continue to broaden the portfolio of services in support of health plans and integrated value-based care providers to be in support of value-based care, be it for Medicare Advantage tools or the commercial population. So we see the marketplace as a growth market. Its respective growth will ebb and flow depending on reimbursement to some level from the government, lending toward benefit richness.

And then ultimately, as you know, the last comment I would make is the primary wave of the baby boomer aging has reached a peak and is slowing. It's still attractive, but that primary wave has reached its peak and is slowing somewhat. Take it as a whole, we see this as an expansion opportunity for Evernorth.

Good morning Josh, it's David. Let me take a portion of your question and then ask Eric to expand. And I'm going to come at the latter piece of it in terms of care allies and BBC, et cetera.

First, your statement is correct. The thing about the care allies is specifically focused on the MA portion of value-based care. So therefore, there's alignment there. Stepping back on value-based care, we have a long history and again, a proven track record of delivering very strong positive results for the benefit of our clients, our customers and patients off of our value-based care orientation for commercial, for individual exchange, as well as for Medicare Advantage. As you know from our prior conversations, that's been a partner and enabled model as opposed to an owned model, broadly speaking. In terms of owning the care delivery versus partnering enabling.

Additionally, I'd ask you to think about the commitment around that continuing. So our collaborative accountable care relationships for our commercial business and our exchange business continues on and our investment in and expansion of our Evernorth Accountable Care of capabilities as we support healthcare delivery system partners around their value-based care. That continues, including our strategic partnership with Village.

So on the value-based care side of the equation, no change in strategy for us. this specific subset of our assets was solely aligned to the Medicare Advantage business. I'll ask Eric to talk about the direction relative to PDP and our multidimensional services relationship there. Eric?

Scott, good morning, it's David. I think your umbrella tenant is right. So as I noted in my prepared remarks, the decision allows for sharpening of focus as we lean into our portfolio going forward. As you think about the investments, though, we have a long track record of making multiyear investments within our portfolio.

So think about investments in a digital-first orientation and data-led capabilities continuing to invest in development of new programs and capabilities, be it what we talked about before with ClearCare or Pathwell capabilities. expanding the infrastructure and scale for a broader addressable market expansion and our proven CuraScript SD expansion as we face off and support a broadening array of health care professionals and integrated delivery systems. And I mentioned to Josh, the Evernorth Accountable Care capability.

So think about, broadly speaking, our investment strategy continuing to fuel a variety of items and finally, sustained affordability, be it on the medical class pharmacy cost for administrative leverage that we get out of machine learning and AI through that lens.

As it relates to the question around exchange or otherwise, we've always viewed the exchange business as sitting between commercial as well as the government. Obviously, the government influences a meaningful portion of that through the benefit design and otherwise, yet we are able to successfully leverage our collaborative accountable care relationships.

And as we've demonstrated now for about a decade, with the exchange business by taking a very targeted focus within that market from its inception in 2014 to today, we continue to see that as a complementary aspect to our business.

We will take very targeted positions, market by market as long as we have the right collaborative care relationships in place and have to be a complementary part of our portfolio. So I don't see the exchange posture is changing as a result of this. And broadly speaking, I don't think the investment strategy and the corporation changes as a result of it, it does create more capacity, though, as you articulated to accelerate in some of the categories I made reference to. I hope that helps, Scott.

Justin, good morning, it's David. There's a lot in your question. Let me try to frame our thought process today and as we go forward. First, to date, we have a very clear proven track record of delivering a total cost, total quality, including clinical quality and service quality solution that resonates really well in the marketplace, whether it's in the benefit side of the equation or on the services side of the equation and our results reinforce that.

Point two is we've successfully executed an approach that is on the delivery and fulfillment, a mix of partner and owned we continue to evolve our portfolio. But philosophically, we do not believe have not, do not and continue to not believe that you have to own everything to be able to fulfill. As you might recall, if you reflect back on prior conversations within our portfolio at Investor Days, we framed actually the amount of services that Evernorth, for example, was fulfilling at a point in time for the Signet Healthcare portfolio. And we frame the expansion opportunity to the point of your question that existed in front of us, and we continue to expand those services.

Our model though is also importantly not predicated on only having economic alignment for guaranteed cost. We're able to do it successfully for self-funded or shared funding mechanism as well. So point two is we see the ability to continue to grow that over time with our Evernorth services portfolio. Point three is as it relates to services to continue to invest in. We've been very clear that certain services, we see additional step function opportunities to invest in and continue to grow.

Most importantly, our proven scale, specialty capabilities. The rate of spending growth and clinical complexity around that is off the charts. We have a leadership position there that will continue to grow, and we will continue to be the market leader in that space through our assets.

Secondly, the need statements around behavioral health in the most comprehensive way. The market expects now a much more coordination of behavioral and physical health and we will continue to expand services that we have within our leading capabilities.

And third, just to stop at three for illustration is the breadth of virtual services. the ability to connect and coordinate and expand services as we go forward. So we agree with your point. I'll end with agreement with your point of continuing to invest in our services capabilities to be able to support the right services but we do not believe you have to own all aspects of the care delivery equation to be able to deliver that on a go-forward basis.

So hopefully, that gives you a framing. As you might expect, we'll spend time on this at our Investor Day on the seventh because it's an important part of our strategy today and an important part of our growth strategy going forward.

Sure. Just to amplify and add one more. The amplification is that point solution fatigue, that plays through in terms of opportunities for our Evernorth team as well as our Cigna Healthcare team. So around that, think about the ability to leverage solutions to get more value, better service, better clinical outcomes, overall value and affordability.

Secondly I just wanted to reinforce a critical point when we think about penetration or cross-selling, sometimes it's thought through and you didn't state this, but sometimes it to through under the notion of you're just cross-selling products. The integration of the products to deliver more value to the clients and customers is mission-critical. So that shows up in better service quality, better clinical quality, improved affordability. And I would highlight that our sustained differentiated MLR performance is, in many cases, aided by our proven ability to integrate certain services they come together with benefit the clients that enables us to generate a high level of cross-selling and a high level of penetration. Thanks, Lance

Good morning. It's David. Let me ask Brian to give you a framing in terms of - because you have a question relative to the trajectory in the year-over-year? And then I'll ask Brian to hand it across to Eric to give you a little bit more color of your question. The onboarding costs that, were really intense during 2023. And then some of what we're calling onboarding costs that leads into the early part of 2000 and 2024, give you a little color of what those services look like. But I'll ask Brian to frame the financials first.

Thanks. Just a couple of messages to reiterate. First and foremost, 2023 was clearly a strong year of performance across our company as we executed quite well, and it's reinforced by more than a decade where we've executed consistently as we've evolved our company and continue to grow our business portfolio and those we serve. We have confidence that we're going to sustain that momentum and leverage our well-balanced portfolio across our franchise and continue to deliver within our 10% to 13% long-term EPS growth range as well as pay an attractive dividend.

Finally, I want to thank my coworkers around the world for their continued disciplined execution, their passion, importantly, in their caring orientation as well as dedication for those we serve. It shows up in our results. I'm really pleased and proud of what we delivered in 2023. And importantly, I'm even more excited for our expansion of our reach and impact in 2024.

As a final note for you all, we look forward to seeing many of you at our Investor Day, which is a month away. So in early March, we look forward to seeing you in New York City and our team will be excited to talk about the market expansion we see in front of us, our capabilities and our opportunity to create additional value on a go-forward basis. Have a great day. Thanks.

