Don Allan
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. (SWK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Sure. Thanks, Rob. I think the competitive landscape has not really shifted or changed as we went through the end of '23 into the early stages of '24. There is modest movements in certain brands moving across retailers. But aside from that, we're not seeing unusual pricing or discounting happening. And for the most part, it's really all of us navigating a somewhat muted market right now and continuing to position ourselves for share gain. But I'll ask Chris Nelson to give a little more color on what he's seeing.

Yeah. The comment on the footprint, I mean, yeah, the geopolitical dynamics continue to be intriguing and interesting for sure, what may play out in the future. But as it comes to our footprint transformation, we started with an overarching strategy of finding ways to get closer to our customer with our supply base and our manufacturing [Technical Difficulty] certain types of products that are high volume, in particular. Other products, you have to focus more on the low-cost location. And so, you end up with a mixed geography of where you're manufacturing and how you're serving your customers. That hasn't really changed.

What we continue to do as part of the transformation though is develop centers of excellence for power tools, certain types of hand tools, certain types of outdoor products that leverage the expertise we have in these geographies in Asia, in Mexico and in the United States and Eastern Europe. We will continue to build upon that, which gives -- eventually, will give us the ability to flex supply from different geographies if the geopolitical landscape changes radically. That will take time to do. That's not something that will necessarily occur in the next six to 12 months. But as we continue on this journey and finish this transformation in the next two to three years, that's an outcome that we're looking to achieve. And so, we believe that's the appropriate way to address what's happening in the dynamic geopolitical space, and we'll continue to evaluate that going forward as things shift in countries like the United States if they shift and make pivots as necessary.

Go ahead, Pat.

Good morning.

Good morning, Eric. So, I would say that the level of promotional activities we're at now and we would expect in '24 is probably pretty consistent with what we experienced in 2019. And so, we're kind of back to where we were, which I think was a healthy balance of normal core operating selling activities and promotional activities. As we think about the year, our customers are not really talking to us about, what I would call, unusual levels of promotional activities. They're looking for the normal set of activities, and I think that's going to likely be the case throughout the year. And we tend to -- in demand markets like this that are somewhat stable in the sense where you don't have a lot of growth and you don't have a lot of retraction, it tends to be a more normal promotional environment in that setting. If demand retracts in a more significant way, then promotional activity does pull back a fair amount, because the impact of promotions is not as significant.

If we see a back half of the year that gets better, which there's -- we talked about in our presentation that our guidance doesn't necessarily include that, but if the back-half demand environment is an improved environment, and you could potentially see a little bit of tick-up in promotional activity related to that. But at this stage, based on our guidance, I think it's probably balanced to say that our view is that promotional activity will be consistent with what we saw pre-pandemic.