Donnie King
Tyson Foods, Inc. (TSN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Adam.

Okay. Adam, this is Donnie here. Thanks for the question this morning and thank you for being with us. As we said earlier, 2023 was a very unusual year, one that I've not seen, where all core protein categories were challenged at the same time. And at the same time, our brands continue to perform well, outperforming the broader food and beverage category. The demand for protein remains strong. We're controlling the controllables and we're focused on efficiency, modernization, and cost structure. Over this past year, we've taken bold actions to improve performance. We're managing the business for cash. We also have pulled down our capital spend and if you go back to '22, we spent $2.6 billion, in '23, we pulled that down to $1.9 billion and we're projecting between $1 billion and $1.5 billion in '24. We will continue to return cash to shareholders predominantly through the dividend and we shared that earlier today. We had the 12th consecutive year of increasing dividends. We're winning with customers and consumers. We do have advantage brands and advantage categories and are very proud to be in the Top 10 for the second year in a row with Kantar Power Ranking. We've seen sequential improvement across all the businesses in the second half of '23. We expect fiscal '24 to be better year-over-year in cash flow and profitability. Chicken AOI improving considerably and prepared foods continuing to perform well. In short, our plan is working and delivering tangible results. FY '24 is off to a great start and I could not be more excited about our future. We do have a good plan. We do have the right team, and we are executing at levels I've not seen in a long, long time. And in terms of individual segments, John, do you want to add something to that?

Yeah, I think on working capital, the drivers will be pulling down some of the finished goods inventory, but we might give some of that back on inventory just in terms of the cattle prices and kind of what we've got on the balance sheet. As it relates to free cash deposit, we are committed to supporting the dividend for the year. And so we've given a range of CapEx numbers that we would expect to kind of reflect, wherever the AOI and EBITDA is, so that we can be free cash flow positive for the year.

Okay. I think to clarify one thing is that would be net of -- that would not include any opportunistic M&A. I think we've always been pretty active in the market, evaluating opportunities. And so we don't have any predictions or news to share there, but just acknowledging that we'll consider things should they come to market during the year.

Thanks, Adam.

Good morning, Andrew.

Hey, John, if I might -- if I might add one thing to that, and you referenced some of the larger projects being behind us, I think it's important to remind everyone that in '22, we began to have an outsized capital expense. All of that was in service to making sure we had the capacity necessary to grow our branded portfolio, the value-added chicken, and prepared foods as well. And we've got those Danville, Virginia, we have Bowling Green, Kentucky, and Caryville coming online, plus a number of operations coming online outside the United States.

Sure. And as we've said a number of times, and we'll continue to say this, we are evaluating everything, leaving no stone unturned. If you go back and look at what we've announced thus far, the six chicken plants, and then most recently, the two value-added case-ready plants in our beef and pork business, those are typical of what we're looking for. But these are typically older, less efficient, certainly not modern that require a lot of capital expenditure to try to either expand or make efficient. So, we're choosing to move that capacity to another plant. We're not wanting to give up any volume or share, and we're doing that very well. But the other thing that may not be as quite as apparent is because of the efficiency play in all of our core plants, it has enabled us to run lines at rate. It's allowed us to get the labor and yield and throughput on those lines that we need. But that's also been an unlock in our ability to take away some redundant capacity.

Thanks. I'll throw out a couple things and then I'll let Brady step on-top of that. If you look-back in ‘23 supply-demand imbalance, there is a little of that occurring in port as we as we move into ‘24. We talked a lot about controlling the controllable, but here's what I would tell you about that. The team that we've got in-place today in our Pork business is a world-class team delivering best-in-class results, couldn't be prouder of the work that they've done. But they're also working across the lines with -- as it relates to Prepared Foods and trying to unlock new opportunity. We obviously have more Prepared Foods capacity coming online. Some of the Tyson pork raw-material will be in support of that. But we're looking at each footprint in terms of Capital requirements, how efficient, what it would take to make it modern and upscale it, but then we're looking at network and how to do that. But with that Brady, anything you would add to that?


Thank you. Let me say -- make a couple of comments, and I'll turn it over to Melanie. Let me start off by welcoming Melanie Boulden who is our Chief Growth Officer, and she has taken over responsibility for our Prepared Foods and she's on our first call today representing Prepared Foods. And Melanie, welcome. And let me just lay a little foundation, and I'll let Melanie close the deal.

Prepared Foods is a key growth pillar for our future. Our brands continue to perform well, even last year, even in fiscal '23 when we were challenged. We have advantaged brands in advantaged categories. So we like that. But I'll let Melanie talk to you about some of the upside to even Prepared Foods today.

So if I could add a couple of things to that as well. I think it's important that when you're evaluating beef that you evaluated across the entire cycle, which is approximately 10 years. And I will tell you and this thing moves kind of quickly. But a year ago, I was testifying before Congress with some of my peers because Beef was making so much money. And today, we're talking about what it looks like on the downside. So my message there, and I have to tell myself this as well, is that you have to look at it across the cycle, and we do that. But a couple of other things that, again, I would just reiterate, don't miss the fact that we have redundant capacity and are able to shutter that, that don't miss the fact that we got better at what we do and every aspect of the operational component. And so we did. But we continue to evaluate all options, but something that Brady would never say, but I'll say because he won't that we have best-in-class assets. We have best-in-class team members. We have -- we are aligned with the right suppliers, and we have great -- we have all the great customers that you would want to service. So we have a number of things that are lined up against -- or lined up the right way for us.

So let me start off, and I'll answer the Beef question first. The write-down in Beef doesn't have anything to do with that. That was discount rates, which drove the goodwill impairment. But in terms of Chicken, let me just state this because we've not said this in some time. Our goal in Chicken is to simply be the very best in this space. That hasn't changed. I can tell you that over the last three, four, five years, maybe we haven't done that to the best of our ability. We haven't competed very well. But we're getting more competitive, and we are still unlocking opportunities. And I'll let Wes share some of the things that he's doing in addition to what he's already said.

If I could add something to that in terms of CapEx. As a reminder, over the last couple of years, we've made major investments in capacity, and we're pulling that back down to normal levels. We are in a good spot today in terms of the capacity to produce and to be able to produce and grow in the near term here. We'll certainly keep our eye on that. But I think another way to think about that is you're just returning to more of a historical level of capital spend.

Good morning, Alexia.

Thank you. While fiscal 2023 was a difficult year for our business, we finished strong and are more focused, collaborative and efficient than we were 12 months ago. While we're not yet where we want to be, our plan and the decisions we have made are moving us in the right direction as demonstrated by a second quarter in a row of sequential improvements. In an uncertain macro environment, our priority continues to be controlling the controllables with discipline and agility. Our strategy is working. We have the right leadership team in place to deliver, and the bold actions we've taken are poised to drive long-term opportunity and shareholder value. Thank you, and have a good day.