Doug McMillon 
Walmart CEO Q4 2023 Earnings Call Q&A Responses

Oliver, you did a great job working on like six questions, five questions. This is Doug. We'll try to make sure we cover all of those. You may have to remind us of one or two.

Let's start with Consumer Health, and I'll just ask Kath you, John and Judith to quickly comment. And Judith, you can work in the answers to the questions he asked and if you want to were talking just before the call, Oliver, about which adjective to use, and we were coming up with words like choiceful, discerning, thoughtful. I think you can see it in the mix impact. Customers are still spending money.
When you think about our guidance and the place we positioned it, it's obviously not as clear to us what the back half of the year looks like is what we're experiencing right now and the momentum that we had coming out of the fourth quarter. But that's why we would characterize them. They're making choices. We expect that to continue through the year. Kath, you want to add something for Sam's?

Simeon, this is Doug. I'll kick it off and then John David can add. I think generally, it's the latter. We feel like that our price gaps are in a good spot that we've made, the thoughtful wage investments that we need to make. That doesn't mean that wages may not continue to go up over time.
But generally, the shape of the income statement is in pretty good shape. And then we've got these other items that are selling they changed the business model. And so, you end up mixing yourself. I think John David did a great job in his remarks describing we're going to face some merchandise mix pressure this year across markets, but the business model itself, the business mix is changing. That's been our strategy, and now we're starting to see some of those numbers grow as in -- with advertising income.
I think in the investment category, the thing that we're most excited about is the automation opportunity we have, and that's reflected in our capital guidance. We've shared with some of you how excited we are about some of the things that are in front of us in distribution centers that will impact stores in a positive way, but that's more of a CapEx and balance sheet investment view than shaping the income statement differently as we've done in recent years.

Just quickly add. Our sales have been stronger these last few years. I mean the 6% CAGR over the last five is a much higher number than you look than you would have experienced with the Company previously. But then we had these unusual things happen with COVID costs and last year inflation and supply chain costs. And we're hoping for something that looks a little more normal going forward that would enable us to push through the strategy in a way that you see it in operating income growth.

Oliver, this is Doug. I'll just second what John David said and then call out this last five years' performance again and say, 6% and 3%, 6% top line, 3% bottom line is obviously not forward for. But we don't feel too bad about the six. And we just wish that, that three was a 6.1, and we'd be in really good shape.
So we don't know exactly what the external environment is going to enable us to do. But because this business is based on value and has a breadth of categories, we are positioned to do well relative to the market regardless of what happens in the environment.
And as we're doing it, as you've heard us say for a long time now, we're changing the business model so that operating income can grow while still having low prices, do both at the same time. That's what we've set ourselves up to do, and we're making progress at that, and you can see it in the results in the pieces that we've shared with you already.

We had a difficult time hearing you. The question was about Flipkart and PhonePe and is it reflected in our guidance for the year forward. That's all we got. Can you clarify a little bit more for us?

And I believe the last part of your question related to share count assumptions for this year. Let me take the opportunity to just talk about capital allocation broadly in answering that question. We've been historically very balanced with respect to our capital allocation, both investing organically done in mergers and acquisitions as well as dividend and share buyback, and we will remain balanced going forward. But as we sit here today, I think the scales tilt a little bit more towards organic investment when we look at the returns related to that. Every dollar of capital has to compete for the highest returns.
And as noted in my comments earlier, we see the returns around some of these technology and supply chain investments, these are ones that we think translate into increased shareholder value. And so relative to last year, you'll probably see us do less on share buyback. And therefore, it will have less accretion in terms of the earnings impact. But last year, we saw a dislocation in our stock and we were opportunistic and more aggressive at that period of time, and we'll always be responsive to factors like that in the market. But our planning assumption is to buy back less stock than we did last year.

I'll start, Karen. And it's good to speak with you. John may want to jump in. But I'll start with the first part of your question.
So the EBIT structure related to the U.S. business, there's a couple of factors there. One is, if you look over the last 12 months, we had a mix shift in our business from GM to food and consumables of over 300 basis points. And we actually don't expect that to improve this year. In fact, we expect it to get a little bit worse, not by the same magnitude, but slightly worse. So that affects the margin structure.

But as noted, our business composition the things like our initiatives, advertising, Walmart fulfillment services, those are contributing to a larger share of our overall business, which has less of an impact as we look at fiscal year. It will be more pronounced as we get into the next year and the year thereafter that where you see the margin structure change a little bit more. And certainly, LIFO is something that we expect to have some impact this year, but not a prolonged effect in the years that follow. So hopefully, that gives you a little bit of color on the EBIT profile.

With respect to our cautious tone and the fact that we tend to do well when the consumer is pressured, look, we recognize that. We also think that we've got a great value for consumers and good economic times too, and we're eager to demonstrate that. But again, I would just point you to the fact that there's just a lot that we don't know. We could tilt into a recession. We don't know what happens to consumer spending. We don't know what happens to layoffs household income. And so given that we're so early into the year and there's a lot of unknowns right now, we're simply taking a cautious outlook.

Robbie, I'll go first. This is Doug. John is going to jump in here, too. I just say that the way that the business model is evolving, that includes 1P plus 3P, plus the services that go along with that, including advertising income to us, make a ton of sense. They're mutually reinforcing. We're excited about the progress that we're making there. And Walmart+ is one ingredient of that.

And we'll continue to describe Walmart+ to you, but not do that in such a way that the market gets overly focused on that metric because we want to be evaluated on several metrics, not just one metric. And we've seen other companies with some sort of short and where people are watching one metric to determine the future of the Company that is just not that simple in Walmart.

Obviously, people want to pay for delivery in bulk with an annual membership, not per delivery. That's what led us to this point. And now it opens all kinds of opportunities to us. And we like what's happening behaviorally with Walmart+, but it's just one component of a plan.

And generally speaking, food inflation has been the most stubborn of all the categories. We were in mid-double digits in Q3 and Q4 hasn't come down all that much. A little bit, I guess we could say, has come down the last couple of months, but it still would be a high level of disinflation at this point.
So this looks to be a little bit higher than what we were expecting going into the year, but this all leads back to the comments earlier on uncertainty. We would have hoped and expected it have to have come back more than have going into this year.
There are other parts of the business where prices have come down more like in general merchandise. But overall, I think we're taking a very cautious outlook and going to continue working on doing everything we can to try to keep prices as low as possible for our customers.

The way to think about it is dry grocery and consumables are stubborn mid-double digit, and those are going to just be with us for a while. And it will get a little confusing because you'll probably hear inflation numbers that start to sound lower, but you'll have to remember that's on a two-year stack.
So if inflation in dry grocery and consumables is only three or five, that's on top of 15. And that's still a problem for the customer and still a pressure in their wallet. In the fresh categories, things are a little bit different. Like eggs were at 200% inflated in January. They're down now to being just 50% inflated. That's still a problem.
Milk is actually less than one year ago. Beef is lower in terms of pricing. So the fresh categories is kind of bouncing around, going up and down and being more volatile. It's dry grocery and consumables that we think are going to create the pressure that customers are going to feel and have the impact it relates to us on mix over the course of the year. And that's one of the variables that's a little hard to call what will GM look like in the back half of the year.

Before these guys comment, I just want to quickly call out that we're profitable in food, and I don't want this to grow to the point where people think they make money in general merchandise, they don't in food. There's a delta between all things, food, consumables. But there are some really profitable businesses in fresh and other areas. So, we want to manage that mix, but I just don't want this to get too far out of balance.

If I could, I'd love to follow up on the e-commerce part of the U.S. You talked about margin drivers with advertising gave us some numbers there. Do we -- can you tell us what 3P is now as a percentage of that e-commerce business or shipments or any insight there?

Thank you all for your interest in the Company. I think the three headlines are strong results, great team, bright future. On the results side, we have momentum. The fourth quarter was really good. We got the inventory into a good place. We're on our front foot as we start the year.

As it relates to having a great team, just look at what they did last year. When the world changed, they moved quickly at scale to deal with issues. They got them resolved. Q3 was better, Q4 even stronger. And as it relates to our future, we're now positioned to serve the customer how they like to be served, stronger on convenience as well as being known for value.

If they want to pick up, we can do that. If they want delivery, we can do that in various forms. And obviously, we've got great stores and clubs. And then secondarily, the business model is changing. Some of the things we've been working on for these last few years are starting to scale, and we're excited about that.

So, as we begin the year, we're going to stay focused on those things and drive them and have the best possible year. And we'll talk about our guidance at the end of the year to see how we did. We'll go draw the results, and that will be our focus.
Thank you, all.

