Edward Decker
The Home Depot, Inc. (HD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

If you look at Pro versus consumer, Zach. I mean, for us, they were -- they were effectively the same in Q4. Overall, industry don't see that being too terribly much different. I can say within our Pro in any customer segment that we have, the managed account customer who is engaging in the ecosystem that we're building was the highest performing customer segment in Q4 and throughout 2023, and we would expect that to continue into 2024 as well as we continue to build out the capabilities.

No. Chris, it's Ted. We saw great signs of life. There's loads of life in the sector. I mean we're working through some macro factors, as Richard articulated, but the consumer is healthy and the consumer is engaged. They're just engaged at this point in smaller projects. And you called out a number of categories that we had terrific engagement in Q4. Our Deco holiday program was just an exceptional performer, the merchants there, just keep taking that to the next level. We know we took a tremendous amount of share in Deco holiday as the customer responds to our offering.

Our gift center line up with the brands we have and the values that Billy and team put in the marketplace had a tremendous response. As you said, Deco Holiday in live goods did extremely well. Things like totes, I mean we saw sold record units of totes in Q4 as people responded to our storage event. So we still have tremendous traffic, just pure volume of traffic and engagement.

Again, it's just that bigger ticket. Although as an aside on bigger ticket, appliances was one of our better relative performers. And I think a lot of that has to do with our service levels as we're integrating the TEMCO acquisition in the percentage of our deliveries that they're now handling in the service level scores and on time and complete that they're providing our customers. We think that's a big piece of the momentum behind our appliance business as well as the strength of our online shopping experience for major appliances.

On the complex Pro, I mean, clearly, the improvements there and the expectation that the managed account engaging in those capabilities will be the strongest performing customer segment. That's embedded in the guidance of comp sales in overall sales.

No, we cannot absolutely. And we disaggregate at every level you can imagine. We're just not going to share all that detail as you can imagine.

We don't see why it would be different. I mean, if anything, the underpinning of this market segment remains incredibly strong. When I step back, and look at the macro, when you look at the influences that we watch most closely, home price appreciation, up 45-odd percent, home equity is up closer to 70%. That equity level, which is $10 trillion, $12 trillion increase since the pandemic has not been tapped. And in fact, HELOCs and cash out refis are at multiple years low right now as interest rates went up over the last two years. So you have tremendous potential in an untapped balance sheet and equity position in homes. We talk about the age of homes now well over 50% or over 40 years old. People are still working from home, more than they were certainly pre-pandemic. So usage in homes, the fundamental shortage of homes were I've seen anywhere between 2 million and 6 million units short.

And on a near term, even forecast for 2024, we'll build 2000-odd units less than demand. So you're not even beginning to make up for that shortage in the near term. So you look at all those factors, millennials becoming a year or so way of becoming the single biggest source of customer segment spend in our space. They're a prime household formation in homeownership ages. So I look at all those and say, huge opportunity. And we've mentioned this before, but the pandemic in a sense is a bit like a giant hurricane, right? I mean, we had tremendous demand in growth in the segment, followed by a couple periods of moderation following that buildup. But as we watch every hurricane market, after you go through that cycle, it's as strong as ever. So with that backdrop of fundamental macros in the overall pandemic playing out over a five-year period like a giant national storm, we have every reason to be extremely optimistic about the future.

And that's why we've made the comments today about how happy we are of what we accomplished, the management team here in the store associates and store leadership and supply chain just did such a great job level setting this business following that sort of pandemic storm and we couldn't feel better about how we're positioned from an operational point of view. And then we're sticking with all the strategic investments, our eyes are still on the prize of the best interconnected shopping experience, building out the Pro ecosystem for complex Pros and then having such confidence in our model to start a reasonably meaningful store build program. So we feel really, really good, Michael. Thanks for the question.

Absolutely. I mean as we've said for the longest time, home turnover is a base of home improvement demand, but it's been pretty steady. If you look at 4.5-odd percent of housing stock is a multiyear percentage of turnover, and that equates to 5-ish million units. The reason we're calling out that is a factor in these last two years is the dramatic decrease. And there's definitely an understanding that there's an improvement in place cycle if you don't move and you stay in your house, but there's a lag effect. And arguably, that lag effect is a bit longer this time because of the interest rate environment and people are just being conservative of when they kick off a larger home improvement project in a home that they're going to ultimately stay in for a longer period of time.

So that's the dynamic of housing turnover. We think that plays out. We're literally at a 40-year low in turnover, don't see that going lower. So you're going to cycle through that kind of a two-year pressure. And then do we get back to growth? Absolutely. I'd say, we have a neutral look on housing for 2024. We don't think there's incremental pressure nor do we think that we're quite ready for a hockey stick recovery. Richard has been talking for some time, and the Fed's stance of hire for longer. I think we now we have an appreciation that longer is going to go through the first half of this year. So even a lowering cycle in the back half, there's some timing effect to get mortgages, move homes, take a HELOC loan out, et cetera, to get a bigger project going. So that's why we're kind of calling for a slighter moderation to continue into '24.

But as we said, the back half is marginally stronger. And we think all the macros line up for return to normalcy following that and with the capabilities that we're building, and we're taking share today with x percent of these capabilities complete. Super optimistic about how we're hitting the ground running as we continue to build going into a stronger market and the share gain opportunity.

