Ellen Cooper
Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

And Alex, just to one additional point, just as it related to expenses in particular and your question about severance. So, as we think about expenses going forward, it is really critical to us that once we get through the initial upfront costs here that ultimately G&A expenses that you'll see a downward trend.

And the action that we took and the severance that we noted in our outlook. What you can see there is that it's about a 5% reduction in our overall workforce. And as Chris commented in his script, this is really intended to remove the organizational complexity and just put us on a more efficient and agile path as we go forward.

So, Mike, I think importantly, first of all, just to reiterate the fact that every action that we took last year and everything that we have, as we contemplate our path to go forward are all focused on the strategic objectives around strengthening the balance sheet improving free cash flow and profitable growth.

And so importantly, that as we are growing our earnings, as we are improving our free cash flow over time that those things obviously are going to support are increasing in terms of overall shareholder returns.

So, we're not today going to provide any specific timing as it relates to buybacks. But it goes without saying that as we are improving and growing our free cash flow as we're growing our earnings as we're shifting the overall earnings mix and everything that you've heard about today that, that will also just increase our overall financial flexibility.

Sure, Mike. So, if I take a step back and there are -- there is one transaction that we closed last year, the Fortitude Re transaction, I want to spend a moment talking about that. So, as you all know, complicated transaction, $28 billion of liabilities, 40% of our GUL.

And as part of that transaction, we were able to really stick to our overall strategic objectives. So, we reduced our balance sheet risk, we improved our capital, and we also improved, and increased our ongoing free cash flow.

So, in the announcement of the Wealth Management transaction and as we thought about that broadly, and we really looked at the overall opportunity for wealth management, and we evaluated the fact that, A, we did not believe that we had scale in that business, but it was a very good business.

We made the decision to divest of it and recognize that in the comments of a net capital benefit of $700 million, we are improving our capital position, and we have also communicated that there are no material earnings or free cash flow impacts as well.

So, again, really sticking as we think about these overall transactions importantly to maximizing relative to the strategic objectives that we've laid out for you.

Yes. So, Mike, these are -- so the Wealth Management business is a very attractive business. And in particular, if it has profitable growth with scale. And so it really gets to this point around the fact that as we evaluated our Wealth Management business, which is a great business that we really determined that unlike the other businesses that we're in, where we have where we have significant scale where they're very mature, where we have all the levers that we need around competitive advantages around our distribution strength, our product manufacturing, our customer-centric delivery, et cetera, that there was quite a bit that we ourselves would need to do to really build out the business to be at that same level and that it would really be in best for us and best ultimately for this business to be in the hands of an organization that does this as part of what they do, 24/7 each and every day that has the ultimate scale to really drive the profitable growth that we know can come out of this business.

Sure. So, in the Group Protection business, and again, we are a $5-plus billion premium protection business. And we really have historically been in the group life and in the group disability areas.

And as we are looking to overall grow, and I mentioned earlier the business segment specific strategy, we are also looking further increase our overall voluntary business. And you actually can see that year-over-year that our employee contributions continue to increase year-over-year from 2022 to 2023.

And additionally, the supplemental health overall benefits as well. And we've got three different products there that are very important to our customers and ultimately to their employees. And as I mentioned earlier, we saw a doubling there of the overall sales year-over-year, and we expect that to continue.

The other thing that I will add is that I referenced earlier the small market segment. And what's important and different about the small market segment is that there were really tailoring holistic offerings there. Smaller employers, as you can imagine, are looking for one-stop shop with overall bundled offerings.

So, part of what we're uniquely able to offer there is yes, differentiated customer service and all the technology and the infrastructure that they need, but also bundling the various different products together. And we believe that that's part of our value proposition as well.