Erik Nordstrom
Nordstrom, Inc. (JWN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

One more detail. First of all, store traffic. Store traffic continues to be on the soft side, although traffic at the Nordstrom banner stores did improve sequentially throughout the year. It is AUR that is in both banners helping to drive improved selling prices, which is leading in average trip value going up. Digitally, also some soft traffic, but again, average order value and average selling price, both of those increased at both nordstrom.com and rack.com.

Yes, this is Erik. I'll take the first one. Cathy can get second one. Yes, we have really not seen that difference between urban and suburban stores through '23 like we did kind of through the pandemic for a couple of years. Some of our fastest-growing stores this past year or our big urban flagship stores, in particular, New York has shown real strong growth.

Yes, Brooke, I'd just -- I'd add on -- first, I think in the context, you look at our digital business, first and foremost, we look at it through the customer lens, which is a customer experience that cuts across digital and physical. Almost every customer does that. So, we really look at how we can leverage our physical and digital assets to serve the customer better.

That being said, if you look back over our bigger actions over the last couple of years, we have taken some -- made some decisions and some tough ones that were really about reducing unprofitable sales. So, growth in Canada would be a part of that, doing -- shutting down store fulfillment out of our rack.com business is another example.

So, as we look at it, to Cathy's point of -- the financial model in our digital business is really strong, and it scales well, it scales really well. We have, over the last couple of years, really address the unprofitable parts of the business. Both platforms are very much poised for growth, and we need growth out of both of them.

Yes, accessories, handbags in particular, which is a big category in accessories for I think for everyone, has not been as strong kind of through the year. So, we continue to see that. That being said, every single merchandise category that we have did improve sequentially from Q3 to Q4. So, we're also encouraged about that.

On the merch margin question, we really don't see at this point, an effect from what's going on in the Red Sea on our merch margin. We have some portion of our goods that's delayed a bit, but we don't see any material effect to our results.

Yes, Neil, I'd say we really are not seeing an elevated promotional environment. We didn't see it through Q4. We're not seeing it right now. So as best as we can tell, we don't anticipate an unusually elevated promotional environment.

Sure, warren. This is Eric. Yes, our new stores productivity is a little above our average on a sales per square foot basis. So, they do tend to be smaller volume stores. As you imagine, we've -- our portfolio to date has been in -- we start with the best locations. And -- but the average size of our stores is a bit smaller than what we had previously. So, productivity is really good.

The ramp -- we do see an opportunity for us to build upon the excitement we get at a Rack opening, particularly we go to new markets. We get really strong traffic and a lot of energy in the community for some of those communities there where we don't have a Nordstrom store. It's the first entry of our company into that market.

So, we do think we have opportunities to build upon that knowledge at the second year -- at the first year and continue to drive the growth. And I think that's kind of the main takeaway for Rack businesses. The focus on our key strategic brands really cuts across all aspects of the Rack business.

The new stores, comp business, our online business, and we think there's still a lot of opportunities there for us to really leverage, which we think is a competitive advantage. The access to these coveted brands that customers associate with Nordstrom. And as we continue to focus and emphasize those strategic brands, it really is lifting all boats.

I'll start. Cathy can chime in if I leave something out. You may know we changed our wording a bit from optimizing supply chain to optimizing operationally. And the point with that really is internally that it's not just about technically our supply chain network that we see opportunities in addition to continuing to drive productivity out of our network, to managing our inventory throughout its life cycle.

You look at our model, it is unique. Most retailers have stores and have a digital business. We also have two banners, and the banners are connected. The life cycle of our product or a lot of it starts in the Nordstrom banner, and it ends up in the Rack. So, there's a lot of choices for us to make in pricing and placement of that inventory, and we see opportunities to gain value in better managing product through its entire life cycle.

So, I would say the supply chain -- we really have a strong team in supply chain. And by leveraging them beyond the narrow laws of supply chain, leveraging across the whole operational sides of our business, we see continued opportunities to drive productivity.