Ernie Garcia
Carvana Co. (CVNA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. So I don't think we're making any unique assumptions about tax season. I think most of the information is out there, if you read it, is that tax season probably started a little slower, less money went out as a result of the timing of the holidays, but I think there's an expectation that probably tax season will be pretty strong this year and average refunds will probably be a bit larger. Really kind of the first chunk of significant money, we believe, hit yesterday and last night. And I think our assumption is driving kind of our outlook for Q1 is just anything roughly normal. I don't think we're making super aggressive assumptions there. So I don't think there's anything super notable to discuss.

And then as it relates to credit tightening, I think we rolled a lot of that out over the last six months. We've rolled more of that out even more recently. And so I think that's largely – or that is completely taken into account in our outlook as well.

I think you know what I'm going to say, but I'm going to say it anyway. I think our view is there's opportunity everywhere, I think a useful way to break it down is kind of variable expenses and fixed expenses. I think fixed expenses, roughly the way we're managing that today is holding that in the range, and we expect that to lever as we turn to growth. And then I think in variable expenses, we still absolutely believe that there are gains to be had. I think the teams have been doing an incredible job. I think if you look at the trajectory of those numbers, it's very strong. And I think we're excited about a lot of initiatives that we still have left. I think in many of those areas, prioritizing those initiatives is still one of our bigger issues internally and just making sure that we're doing one thing at a time and not trying to take on too much at any given time.

I think from a gross profit per unit perspective, there's also opportunity there. And I think that's true in basically every line item. I would kind of probably characterize those as fundamental opportunities, meaning regardless of where we choose to price things like rates or the vehicle. We believe we can be more efficient in all those areas. And I think that those – that can take the form of continued enhancement in credit scoring and credit pricing, credit structuring and innovations that we've been recently rolling out internally that allow us to more precisely kind of connect our credit pricing structuring and risk assessment to individual loans. It can take the form of getting smarter about how we're buying cars, the data that we're in taking to evaluate the value of those cars, a number of things that we're doing at the point of receipt of the cars to make sure that we're cutting out the biggest losers. So I think there's a number of initiatives there as well that are pretty exciting.

And then I think we remain in this period of trying to make sure that we're driving efficiencies. And I think despite that, we're obviously looking forward to a very strong Q1 from both a financial perspective and from showing a little bit of growth for the first time in a while. So overall, I think we are just very excited about the way the team has responded in the last couple of years. I think it was pretty hard to imagine from the perspective of two years ago where we're sitting today. I think it was hard to imagine the perspective of a year ago where we're sitting today. And I think that we feel like we've got a lot of room to continue to make improvements, and we look forward to continuing to make those improvements. So I think across the board, we're looking for fundamental gains.

Thank you.

Yes. No. Well, I appreciate the question. I appreciate you handing us out at the end of it. But I think, we got to stick with our guidance. We want to make sure that we stay disciplined on that. We are extremely excited about where we are. I think the trends of the business are very, very strong. I think we obviously had a great 2023 from an EBITDA perspective, but the trends that kind of underline the sum of the year were also very positive and those trends remain, and that's what we see heading into Q1. And I think now the balls in our hand, and we just got to go execute. And if we keep executing, I think there's pretty exciting things in front of us, but we got to go, make those things happen, and we'll continue to update you every quarter.

Well, if we comment on your interpretation, then I mean this starts to get really – or really fast. I think you've got your interpretation. We're going to keep marching, we're excited.

Thank you.

Sure. Well, maybe we'll start with a couple sort of data points. So I think roughly speaking, if you – like inflation adjust car prices against all other goods just using CPI. Car prices themselves are probably still on the order of, give or take, 10% higher than other goods in the economy. So I think that suggests on a price level, there's potentially room for that to continue to moderate over time. I think if you look at monthly payments, which compound that and the moves in interest rates. Again, like high-level swag, monthly payments are probably on the order of more like 20% higher relative to other goods than they were pre-pandemic. So I think that also kind of points a little bit in the direction of room for moderation. But we'll see. I think so far, that model of post shortage, there's usually a glut and car prices should probably normalize relative to other goods.

So far, that's been pretty predictive for the last two years. The speed is always hard, but that's at least kind of predicted the direction, I think that we're seeing a lot more new car incentives and aggressiveness right now, which probably points a little bit to more support for that kind of direction in the future, but that's a hard thing to get exactly right. I think, generally speaking, for us, probably lower is better. I'm not sure that there's a level that we're trying to get to. I think it makes cars more affordable for customers. It pulls more people back into the market. And generally speaking, as we've discussed in the past, I think we do exist – our business is sitting between the wholesale market and the retail market. And so what really matters for us is that spread.

And we have kind of over the last two years, we've had kind of the expected case scenario, I would say, but also probably the best case scenario where you've seen depreciation, which made cars more affordable, but you also saw the wholesale market anticipate that depreciation and so margins have been pretty stable. I think if you look at our retail margins we've been near in the 2,800-plus area for the last three quarters, and we expect it to be in a similar spot to maybe even having upside in Q1. And so I think that, that suggests that despite the fact that this depreciation has been occurring and making cars more affordable for our customers, our margins have held in there and been pretty steady. And so overall, I think that's playing out the way that we would like for it to and probably the way that we should have expected it to.

Thank you.

I think the goal is to continually get better everywhere. I think we've benefited a bit in a way over the last two years from being able to kind of simplify our goals and focus just on improving efficiency throughout the business. And I think the primary form that benefit has taken is it just kind of simplified the number of moving pieces in the business and has allowed us to make a lot of progress really fast. That said, I do think that there remains a lot of room for improvement. And as we said earlier, I think one of the biggest issues we deal with internally is just trying to make sure that we're not trying to bite off kind of too many projects because there's still a lot of projects that are pretty exciting. So I think we will continue absolutely to work on projects that we expect to drive efficiency across both variable costs and gross profit.

We also do expect as we kind of head into that transition to start to focus a little bit more on projects that are supportive of growth, and that's obviously exciting. I think given where the business model is, it's very clear how powerful that is to the financial model of the business. And we think we're incredibly well positioned for that. We think that the business is in the strongest place it's ever been. We think our customer offering is stronger than it's ever been. We think our infrastructure is ready to support this growth. We think the work that it takes to grow is meaningfully less than it's been in the past. I mean just even to throw some stats out there. Today, we're moving cars inbound to our inspection centers, approximately 20% fewer miles than we were a year ago. Outbound we're moving cars 30% fewer miles. That's because we've got more of these facilities, and we've integrated intelligently into our scheduling systems to make better choices there.

On in-market ops, we're now pairing almost 50% of activities, which means when we deliver a car to a customer, on the way back, we are picking up another car to get more efficient. I think that's up 75% year-over-year as we put time and effort into building those systems to make them smarter. And building the scheduling systems to make it more likely that we see overlap. That gets better as we get more density in the network and there's still a lot of room to improve there across customer care. Our advocates are roughly twice as efficient as they were in the past in terms of number of sales per advocate per period. The same is true in title and registration with better performance metrics in that group that are now extremely high quality.

So I think we're really well positioned to head into growth when it's time. And I think what we've got to do now as a company is we've got to figure out just how effectively we can manage that transition, how good of a job we can do maintaining the accountability that we had over the last couple of years by keeping things simple as we do head into a more complex optimization equation of both growth and efficiency. But the opportunity is everywhere. The question is how well we execute. The question is not where we're going. We have every intention of selling millions of cars. We've never been better positioned for it, and that is absolutely what we intend to do. But now we've got to figure out how quickly we can do it and how efficient we can be along the way.

Who doesn’t love when Professor Jenkins takes the mic. Everyone in Carvana is celebrating right now.

Sure. Well, I think the first thing we want to do is we want to kind of complete the projects that we've got underway today. And I think we have a number of projects underway today that we expect to continue to drive efficiency. So I think we want to see that through. I think the reason we had to provide this frame earlier our goal is to sell millions of cars and to be the largest, most profitable automotive retailers because that's the place where we're heading. I think the question then is how fast are we going to get there.

And I do think that there are reasons to believe that we should be able to grow at faster rates and be very efficient just given how much more efficient the business is today and the fact that infrastructure is sitting there to be filled in, but we have to go execute on that. And so I think we will always be in a rush to make as much progress as we possibly can. But we will try to be intelligent about how we transition between the goal of efficiency and the goal of growth. We think that there are still gains to be had in both areas. And that's why we're labeling that a transition period. The place where we're headed is clear, the speed that we're going to get there is less clear. And so as we start to make that transition, we'll keep giving you feedback to make it clear what we believe at any point in time.

No. I think our expectations for Q1 are normal seasonality, but nothing – there's tax season that we discussed earlier that is hitting today. Nothing abnormal beyond that in our assumptions.

Yes. Well, I mean, first, we're extremely proud of that offering. That's not an easy thing to do. I think it's the kind of thing that I think sort of flexes our vertical integration muscles because to do that well, you have to have a transaction platform that's very quick and easy, that's deeply integrated into your logistics system, which is connected up through your verification system most of those customers are getting financing and they need to get their financing terms and get verified to unlock that. So I think that's a complicated offering to put together that does require vertical integration and a lot of systems intelligently speaking to one another.

I think that's something we've been working on for a bit now. But it's something that we've generally been pointing more at efficiency gains than at driving growth. And I think what we mean by that is just as a function of normal course, there are always kind of gaps in any given calendar that pop up for many different reasons. And by building same-day capabilities, we've been able to then basically fill in gaps with additional volume by just making those times available to customers. And so we've been able to basically drive efficiency in our cost while simultaneously giving customers faster delivery.

Now to the extent we want to start to flex that into more of a growth tool over time. One, you kind of can just do that with scale because density makes that easier to do. But two, you can lean in a little bit more into your kind of staffing model to enable more of those slots. That, I would say, is sort of a separate choice. The underlying capability is something that we have built something that we're rolling out something that we're extremely excited about, something that does have uptake that is notable and that customers really like. And if you search around in our reviews or online, you can find a lot of commentary on it, where customers are very positively surprised by it. And then I think separately, we have a choice of kind of are we using that just to drive efficiency or are we going to kind of push the lever more in the direction of growth. And over time, as we balance this transition, I think that's probably the direction it will go, but we'll see what speed it goes that direction.

Sure. So on same-day delivery, I think we're will elect to not quantify the impact, but absolutely, there's no question that speed drives conversion and that we see that in same delivery as well or same-day delivery as well. So I think that is exciting. That's a powerful feature. And as discussed earlier, I think over time, it's a feature that we can lean into more – if we choose to use that as a growth lever and then also as we expand our footprint leveraging more of our ADESA for reconditioning, it unlocks the ability to do same-day delivery in many more markets. So I think that's a story that will probably unfold over many years, but we think it's a pretty exciting story. It's a story that is only possible for integration. It's a story that's only possible with an enormous footprint, and I think it's very hard to replicate. So something we're very excited about. And then Mark, do you want to hit CARLI?

And just because that's a fun one I would love to jump in and add a couple of points as well. The other thing that we believe is unique about us is our system is totally deterministic, meaning that there is a negotiation. And that means that a customer coming to our site can get a complete answer instantly just driven by logic. And so it means the experience that they can get through these tools are much more complete. And I think there are a few tools that we've worked on in our history that I think have more clearly demonstrated the value of vertical integration because it is very, very hard to answer what can feel to a customer like a very simple question. Do you have any similar cars with the sunroof that will cost me $20 less per month?

That's a hard question to answer. And it's an extremely hard question to answer if you're not vertically integrated and if your data isn't organized in a way that enables you to do it and impossible to answer, if you're not – if your policies don't result in deterministic calcs that drive that and all of ours do. So I think it's really exciting. This is an area where anyone who's paying any attention at all is your mind is constantly blown every week when you kind of see the new things that are rolling out. So I don't think we yet know exactly where this is going to go. I think we do know that we're well positioned to take advantage of it. I think also there's kind of another fundamental at play, which is the value of any given technology is always a function of how well positioned you are to use it versus those you compete with. And I think there's a pretty differentiated story here.

We've got a great team. We're paying very close attention. And so we'll see where that takes us. I'm not sure it's driving numerical results yet outside of some things you're seeing in customer care, but we are certainly working on it, and we're excited about where it could go over time.

Thank you.

And then generally speaking, as it relates to inventory availability of same-day, the right kind of first order way to think about that is usually the vehicles that are closest to customers in the markets where we offer it, are available same-day, and we are generally rolling it out in markets where we are nearby inspection centers. And so that is what is governing our choices of which markets rolling that out to, and that's why over time, as we continue to open more capabilities at [indiscernible] locations, we'll be able to expand that further.

Thank you.

Great. Well, thanks everyone for joining the call. We are extremely excited about the work that has been done by the team here. And to the Carvana team, we do this every call. We always say thank you. I always feel like there's no way it's coming through the phone in the way that we mean it, but we really do hope that you guys feel that and understand and appreciate the impact of all the work that you've done. I don't think it was reasonable to expect the progress that we've made from the perspective of a year ago. And I hope that we have another unreasonable year now and I think we're positioned to do it if we keep charging. So keep marching. Thank you all. We'll talk to you guys next quarter.