Fred Lissalde
BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

The products for the each side of hybrids are similar than the products on BEV. They are the same motors, the same power electronics, they are the same transmission cases, they are the same high-voltage coolant heaters. So, it's from an R&D perspective, it's extremely fungible, they're the same engineers, and from a capital standpoint, it's pretty fungible too. So, we've developed an eProduct portfolio that is, I would say, very fungible across hybrids and BEV very much so.

So let me take a step back here. I think Borg is very good at taking great technologies and commercializing them and globalizing them. Look at what we've done with Delphi, look at what we've done with Akasol, which was -- which literally had lower revenue. This year, we had about $750 million at the midpoint. The plan with Eldor on DC/DC converters on both charges is exactly that. And so, I'm very optimistic about the drive that we can generate and profitable growth that we can generate from the engineering base that we acquired with Eldor.

So I would say, Joe, that we're outgrowing the inflational side by about 300 basis points. I would tell you that on the side, I see more upside than downside at this point in time. And we are constantly as we presented a few months ago and as we review the team regularly, we're constantly restructuring in a position of strength. And that, I believe, will allow us to maintain the foundation of margins as it is called by our third pillar of Charging Forward.

So if you take the CV packs, growing 65% CAGR year-over-year. And we are ramping up in U.S. significantly in Q2 and in Europe at the end of the year and more to come. So I would say that the end of 2024 jump-off point on CV is much higher than the current year. On light-vehicle, roughly 60% of the programs that we've disclosed so far, we're launching this year or we've launched at the tail end of last year. So even if there is some variability possible, I think you're right, the jump-off point at the end of this year is going to be from a much bigger base on a light-vehicle standpoint, as it is, I just alluded to on the CV side. So I would say that if the customer volumes are holding as our country forecasting, we would expect to be within that range in 2025.

For now, we're focusing on '24. We're launching so many products. We're focusing on '24, and we'll let you know what we think finally on '25 in due course. '24 is our focus, but I just wanted to give you the color of the different building blocks between CV and light vehicles.

So I'll take the second part of the question. There is no M&A in the $4.5 billion to $5 billion. It is booked business. There is a significant portion of about $2 billion of M&A in 2027.

Yes. So for customers, I think most probably you need to ask them. I think there is some flexibility. We are hearing commentaries as you do that in the U.S., there is some intention to report hybrids outside of the U.S., hybrid is a big portion of the new energy vehicles. In China, it’s 30% to 40%. In Europe, it's a big percentage, too. What's important to me is that we've built a product portfolio that is totally fungible across hybrid and BEV. R&D is the same engineers, power electronics, motors, transmission, thermal, it's the same thing. For us, it does not matter. We can support our customers to wherever they want to go.

Rod, I think it's a little too early to see the communication and the RFQ materializing on the hybrid side. But I would say that with the scale that we have in our eProducts that cuts the grass hybrid, different types of hybrids and BEV, we can be one of the enablers of a rapid launch of hybrid powertrain for those customers.

So first of all, the financial profile of Eldor was fully comprehended when we did the due diligence and it was fully comprehended into the views of our financials. Integrating companies becoming, I think, a real strength of BorgWarner. And we do that in a very disciplined way, and we're doing it with a very disciplined way with Eldor too. We are locating BorgWarner people on location.

And we are managing the business starting Day one where we've owned Eldor for a couple of months now. But we are going to just manage the Eldor business as we manage the BorgWarner business with financial discipline. There are attractive businesses in onboard chargers, DC/DC converter and one-box, which again is totally the same products, either it's hybrid or BEV. And we see a lot of pools and a large event from our customers in those electronics technologies too.

I would say that the capital allocation strategy is pretty much unchanged. We are looking at M&A as an important part of strengthening electrification capabilities. We are very disciplined in the way we look at M&A. We are looking at way more companies than we're actually putting the trigger on. And we think that the current environment could provide some attractive buying opportunities and be rest assured that we will include and consider the near-term impact in the valuation assessment.

We are looking at M&As with discounted cash flows. We're taking those near-term impacts are really importantly, the policy on capital allocation also includes the dividends that we've left unchanged even during covet. We've repurchased stocks and buyback is start of the strategy. I alluded to in my prepared remarks on how much we've given back to our shareholders and the spin-off of PHINIA, which I think was a great success. It is also part of the capital allocation strategy. Kevin, do you want to add anything?

And then what's really important is to understand that the RMB CapEx are for EV and hybrids. And again, I'd say it's wonderful times, the products are the same for us in light vehicle, whether it goes in the hybrid or above. It's the same people it's the same R&D, it's the same CapEx.

I would add one thing is that on the combustion side. We don't really see no new -- we don't really see new engines or new transmissions being developed. It is more a longer life or slightly higher volume on the current product. So even if combustion, as you mentioned, may go back up or longer tail that doesn't prevent us to adjust the [SA] and the engineering as I mentioned, of the foundational P&L.

Yes, we are ramping up a second production line in Seneca, North Carolina. We have our first production line in the Michigan area. This is ramping up in Q2. And the same line is being commissioned for Europe, and this will ramp up data in the year. And that is the 65% year-over-year growth at the midpoint for those daypacks. The demand is much higher than what we can produce. And we don't see in the commercial vehicle, any noise of any slowdown whatsoever to the contrary. So that's pretty much what we're doing on the very back. We don't see any issues on sales of the play. And all that is reviewed and monitored very in a very focused way and a very precise way.

Noah, I think we're always quoting businesses with 15% return on invested capital. We have volume based closes and everything that I see is tending towards meeting those 15% return on invested capital, and we very experienced on how to do that. For us, it doesn't change whether it is a new product or eProduct, the rules are all the same.