George Holm
Performance Food Group Company (PFGC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, mix is the big issue. Particularly with independent growing at a good rate, and our national accounts in a declining mode right now, I think that will do well through the rest of the year. You had mentioned overcoming the inventory gains, when you think about those, that's not really additional cases sold, yet you're getting that gross profit. And our other businesses outside of Foodservice is really the same thing. Vistar has done excellent, the contract feeding business is back really strong, and they are strong in that from a Convenience and micro-market, and that part of the business.

And then when you get to our customer -- our Core-Mark business, you know, the tobacco gains were large and the reason that they were still able to run good margins is their food business is very, very good. And that's where the higher margins are. So once again, it's kind of more mix than getting more from the customer.

And I'll -- yeah, this is George. I'd also add that we will continue to be acquisitive. We haven't been quite as acquisitive of late. And that's not for a lack of effort, more for just opportunities and what's out there today, but we feel real confident in future M&A.

Thanks, Ed.

Yeah, those are good questions. As far as the growth in salespeople, we've actually continued to take that up, particularly as we got into the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. We've also been able to get where we have our growth as a company and independent is about equal to our growth in people. And we're about a point shy in growth of accounts as we are in sales. So I think those things bode well, because we feel like that we've got a good training system in place. We're going to get good productivity from these new people down the road. That's going to help fuel us there. And just having that increased customer base is going to give us more opportunity for penetration. And I would say, all in all, that there probably is some softness from a macro standpoint and I think when that comes back and it will, I think that we'll get much better drop sizes. I think we have these things going in the right direction.

More so account growth. Not as -- we don't get as good a number on what the macro looks like when it comes to Convenience. But we feel good about the business. We're continuing to pick up Foodservice business with double-digit growth. And the pipeline is very large. We have a lot of things in the work. It is a long sales cycle, as I mentioned before. But I think we've kind of reached that point where we got things coming in to our company, and we've got accounts that were down that pipeline with and we know we have business coming when their current contracts expire. So we feel good about that growth, and we'll just see where the macro part of that goes.

Well, I think that we're still what I would call somewhat dependent on new accounts, but we're doing a great job there. And where we've seen an uptick from Q4 to the beginning here of Q1, in our case growth, we've also seen a similar uptick in our new accounts or our total number of accounts versus the previous year.

Wallet share is a little bit harder to tell. We do see that products that we were selling that customer a year ago and we're selling it to them now in most instances, there is a slight decline. So I would say there, as I mentioned earlier, there are some macro issues out there and I think that we're going to continue to push through those as long as we're getting good people and we're training them well, and they're going out and getting new business. It's not that difficult. That's pretty simple math.

Well, our retail pick-and-pack business and where we fulfill for other people, that business continues to go well. Micro markets are improving at a fast rate. Theater -- theater is surprisingly strong, and has been for a while. And we're seeing the office coffee make come back as people are going from maybe three days a week at work to four days a week at work. So those areas would be -- would be the areas that I would say we're probably strongest in right now as far as growth. The value category, the dollar store area is doing quite well too.

Our brands are doing very well. And the business is almost entirely with independent customers when you look at our customer base in Foodservice outside of independent, it's basically restaurant chain. So we're doing little to no business with contract feeders in Foodservice, or nursing homes or hospitals, those parts of the business, hotels. So we really build our product for restaurants. And where we're seeing the best growth right now is at the higher end of our products from a quality standpoint. So, that's really what's driving it.

And by the way, -- yeah, by the way, Core-Mark also has been adopting these brands and are doing very well with it.

Yeah, if you look at the last two quarters, just kind of stepping through the calendar, January was an unusually high pace growth month and that had I think a lot to do with Omicron. We saw slightly less growth in February. And then slightly less growth again in March. And then as we got into the fiscal fourth quarter, the opposite happened where we actually gained momentum in each one of those three months and then gained more momentum in July, and actually, August so far has been better yet. So, I think, that in some ways that's like what the last three years have been like right. I mean, there's always been something that was unusual in each quarter and I think we've finally reached that point where although the industry may be a little slow right now, I think that it's more consistent and I think it will continue to be more the seasonal flows that we've typically had in the past.

Well, we would like to develop quicker, but sometimes things develop better when they don't develop as quick. It took a while. They're really -- when you get outside of the Foodservice part of it, there are two different businesses. And the focus at Core-Mark, of course, has been on the store itself and kind of the CPG-type product. And this has been a change for them. But we've got the two companies they are really gelling. They've got, like I said, a really good pipeline. And we're seeing success in both parts of the business. Our Foodservice people are doing very well going into a Convenience location that we don't have the assortment needed in a Core-Mark. And we started out with a lot of that just two separate through us and now we're doing -- real well doing it together. So we feel great. I mean, we feel it's going to -- going to be a lot of our growth here in the near future.

Well, it's improving all the time. And I would say in our Foodservice business that things are if not normal, very, very close to normal. What we're finding in the Core-Mark and Vistar business is some of the lack of fill rate that we've had is items that were discontinued during COVID that have continued to be discontinued and in some ways are probably permanently gone, maybe it will still come back. So that's part of it. And the rest of it is somewhat unexplainable for us. We are frustrated that we don't have better fill rates, but we are also pleased that they're continuing to improve. And it's pretty widespread that they're not back to normal fill rates in those two businesses.

Well, all three businesses, Foodservice, Core-Mark, Vistar have seen gross margin expansion. As I mentioned earlier, it's really mix. Mix is the biggest thing in all three of those businesses as to why we're seeing that growth. It's product mix, it's channel mix, and then the success of the brands. As far as just aggressive pricing, I would say that's probably not something that -- that we've really done.

We should. I guess if we picked up some large chunks of business in more of the national area that could have some impact. But the pleasing part of it too, is overcoming these inventory gains that we had in fiscal 2022 and 2023. And, we actually, for fiscal 2023 by the end of the year, we had less inventory gains than we did in 2022. And this is the last quarter that we have to deal with that. And that obviously has helped drive some of this gross profit per case. And without it, we're still seeing good increases. But like I said, it's primarily due to mix.

And add still to it. This is -- the quarter we're in right now, was the highest that we've ever experienced in inventory gains. And we have great confidence, obviously with our guidance that we will overcome those gains once again. And then I don't have to talk about it, which will be really nice.

Well, I, -- if you just look at the numbers that get published, QSR is doing better than certainly casual dining or family dining. And I think to some degree, that's probably an effect of trade-down. I would assume that's the case. I think our value store is doing well and consumable product is trade-down. Although if you look at how good Walmart is doing as well, that's probably a reflection of it as well. And then just to, sound confusing I guess, but it's our higher-end product, that is the most expensive product that we're growing the fastest with within our Foodservice independent customers. So I think it's a mixed bag. When we look at the account level, we are certainly seeing in national accounts that casual dining is just not in favor now. Is it -- are there people trading down or are they going to independent restaurants, that we have a tough time telling.

I know, for us this move into micro markets where they may have had -- may have been a bending environment before, and you can offer different price points and you can offer more product, that is doing really well. And that's doing better at the higher-end of those type of products. So I just think it's very, very mixed. But I think Patrick made a good point that we're in so many different channels. Although we're missing probably the two that are growing the fastest right now being contract feeding and lodging, but from a Foodservice standpoint -- but I think the other channels that that we're playing in and that we're real serious about are all doing well.

We're getting a little bit from drop size, but the bulk of it is coming from accelerated new account growth.

Well, we keep real detail on loss business is very important. And every year, we've been able to get better at retaining our accounts and retaining our salespeople, both. And if you consider the amount of restaurants that typically go out of business each year, and we've been able to get to very high single-digit turnover from the previous year, and customers or lost business. So as we're adding accounts, we feel -- we feel pretty confident. And particularly with the retention level that we have with our sales force. I think those two go hand-in-hand.

Yeah, well we're seeing constant progress and productivity and shrink. Those are the things that are real problems with new people. We hired heavily in some areas. We may have been overshot some. But we feel we're going to continue to improve. We're certainly not back to 2019 levels. And we're paying more money to get a better level of service. But the reduced overtime has helped productivity. Not using temporary workers to the degree that we did during the heavy COVID periods has really helped us -- helped a lot. And then we -- we feel that our expense ratios are going to continue to get a little bit better. A lot of our, I guess, I would say increase in expense ratios for last quarter was just continuing to add to the sales force. That was our -- our big area of increase over the previous year.

Yeah. If you took out the holding gains from the previous year, we were actually well into double-digit EBITDA growth for Convenience. And that was driven somewhat by food sales. I mean, that certainly helps. But from an operational standpoint, warehousing and delivery, from where we were COVID to now, they've probably improved the most.

Thanks, Andy.

Overall, it's going to be opportunistic and things that fit our business and their culture fits our culture. Provided we can get to the right valuation, we would probably do M&A in any of those three businesses. Our priority is certainly Foodservice. In broadline foodservice specifically. That's where we have more significant whitespace. And we still have distribution centers that I would call legacy Roma distribution centers where we have limited product offering. And expanding that business would probably be our biggest priority. But we will always if we have an opportunity to get a good business to be part of us, we think we have a good method of doing M&A and integrating companies, we'll always be opportunistic.

Yeah. Well, we're certainly gaining share, but if you look at the percentage of the business that we have, we could be going a different direction than our competitors. And it's probably more likely that I guess. I mean, you can see with the guidance we've given, I mean, taking that macro into account, we're very confident. I would like to say that we're always cautious. But I do think there's some macro issues out there and we've been through this before and this certainly isn't 2008 or 2009. It's not to that degree. And as long as we keep gaining customers, I think we'll keep gaining share. We're confident with what we've laid out.