Jack Fusco
Cheniere Energy, Inc. (LNG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Jeremy.

Brian, this is Jack. While we’re not going to guide upwards of the 45 million tons today, I’m always amazed at what my operations folks can deliver. So whether it’s optimizing the trains or our maintenance schedule, we -- they have just constantly outperformed.

So we’re looking now, as Zach mentioned, at $100 or so million for debottlenecking. One of the things I find really promising is, we’re looking at a new technology of our fin fans. Those are the fans that we use to cool the refrigerant that liquefy the natural gas and we think there’s a big opportunity there. So we’ll be trying that out in earnest this year and I hope to have more news for you on later calls.

Theresa, I think, I’m going to just start with some overall comments, and then I’ll turn it over to Anatol. But I have to say this isn’t really new. We’ve been through multiple administrations here at Cheniere. We’ve been through multiple studies on the public interest in exporting America’s natural gas.

What is shocking and new is over the last eight years, I think, Cheniere has proven all the benefits to America and to our allies over exporting U.S. LNG. And I find it appalling that we need scientists to tell us theoretically, using theories and hypotheses, of the benefits or not. But as you know, we know that there are -- those benefits are factual, they’re proven, they were witnessed by the world.

So I really look forward to seeing this studies report. I look forward to the comment period so we can get the record straight and accurate. I’m hopeful that cooler heads ultimately prevail and that the facts will be evident and this pause will be a distant memory. But with that, I’ll turn it over to Anatol. He can tell you a little bit about what our conversations have been with our customers.

No. Well, first, the hurdle has always been high, right? This is a very capital-intensive business. It takes years to get one of these across the finish line. It’s a balancing act between capital costs and SBAs and contracted amounts and financings and everything else. We make it look easy, Ben, but it’s not.

The only positive thing in the past was the regulatory certainty around America and contract sanctity. And while I think this is politically motivated, I’m hopeful that at the end of the day, we go back to where we were before, which is we let the market dictate which projects will survive and which ones won’t. And that’s where we’ve always been and the market’s been extremely efficient at who they’re going to bet on and I would bet on Cheniere every single day.

Thank you and thank you all for all of your support.