James Chriss
PayPal Holdings, Inc. (PYPL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

First, let me start just with recognizing how much change there is that we've gone through. You heard it in my prepared remarks, but we essentially have a brand-new executive leadership team. We've accelerated the pace of innovation. The first-look experience you saw a couple of weeks ago, really was innovation that could have taken months or years that I'm very proud of the team, accelerating and getting done in 60 days. And we are at a point now where even our mindset shift, this focus on profitable growth is something that's new for the organization, and we are grinding away every day. And so with that said, let me unpack the components of transaction margin growth.

The way I think about it is there's 3 levers there. The first is really around the branded experience. This is a proven experience for us. It's one that we -- in some of the innovations that we put out, both for merchants that improve their experience as well as consumers with a new app that allows them to get through the experience better. That is a significant lever for us. And one that, to be honest, we've under-invested in. And if I take just specifically the mobile experience for our consumers, has been underwhelming. And it's something that with the new innovations we just rolled out, I expect for us to be able to continue to see improvement there.

The second is around the unbranded processing. This is an area that we have invested significantly in. With Fastlane now, we have really, I believe, one of the best products in the market for our merchants. We're seeing the highest conversion rates out there, and it's something that our merchants are looking for and looking to adopt. We also are looking to move into new areas for growth that have higher margin opportunities such as international and small business. And it allows us to actually have different conversations with our customers and really price to value the product. And the third is really what I'd consider a bucket of value-added services.

This is a combination of improving our flows with our consumers to ensure that we're attaching the products that we need to whether it's Buy Now, Pay Later or our Cashback Mastercard, these are flows that we've not optimized and were underperforming when it comes to really attach.

And then some of the new offerings that we rolled out, you saw our advanced offerings platform as well as smart receipts. These are all ways that we can monetize and improve the connection between our merchants and consumers. So that's different ways that I think about the components.

Thanks, Jason. Let me set the context and I'll see if Jamie wants to pile on. Our branded checkout performance was 6% for the year. It's been pretty consistent. And for what we're looking going into next year, we're expecting it to be consistent as well. And as we've talked about, that doesn't include or includes minimal aspects of the new innovations that we put out there.

Let me talk about just some of the levers when it comes to the new innovations or ways that I think about accelerating branded checkout because this obviously is going to be a big focus for the organization. The first is we really have to improve the value proposition for our consumers. This is why you see us leaning into rewards, ensuring that we've got an improved experience that reduces latency and really leaning in on mobile as well so that our consumers have a better branded checkout experience.

Second, the acceleration of Fastlane when it comes to our merchants not only improves the unbranded opportunity where we can see 70% of the customers that come through the Fastlane experience, but allows us to have a second engagement with our customers and bring them back into a branded experience at a later date, show them all the different reasons why they should be using PayPal or getting a reward back for a purchase that they made.

So I think these, again, are just a couple of examples of innovations that we're leaning into now that allow us to really focus on that branded experience.

Yes. Well, thank you, Darrin. And look, let me be clear. We are not putting in the expectations into the guidance until we see execution. We just think it's prudent for us to put points on the board before we put it into the guidance. That said, the teams are grinding on this every single day. We are having conversations with our merchants and introducing them. As I mentioned on the call, the reaction has been quite encouraging from the innovations. There is demand in the market, and we are starting right now. And I will tell you, the conversations that we're having now that we're focused on both innovations that are driving demand as well as improvements for these merchants are different than we've had in the past. So I just want you to know, we are working now on this, and we will update you as we start to see points on the board and adjust our guidance as needed.

Secondly, back to your first question around how I think about this. Look, the thing I want you to take away from all of this innovation that we rolled out in first look is this is really changing the way we engage with our customers and our merchants. We are now creating experiences across the entire customer life cycle, not just at checkout. So we are driving not only a checkout improvement, the 50% improvement in latency being able to improve Fastlane, but now we're starting to see a customer value proposition with CashPass, giving rewards back to our customers so that they have a reason to choose PayPal at every purchase. We're improving the onboarding and the reboarding as they come back into the app and start to now attach our Mastercard or debit experiences or Buy Now, Pay Later. We're improving the post-purchase experience where we now have smart receipts or package tracking so that we can improve the engagement between our merchants and our consumers, and we now have an ongoing active use engagement.

And then we're leaning into demand generation and actually solving the biggest challenge that our merchants have, which is finding new customers as we think about our Advanced Offers Platform or creating shopper insights so that our merchants can start to engage and personalize their experience through our data and through the AI that we can lean through. So the way I think about it is we are looking at the entire end-to-end experience, and we'll measure our success through the metrics that you have. It's going to turn into what does transaction margin look like? What are -- what does active use look like from our ongoing users? So that's how we think about it.

Great. Thanks, Mike. Let me talk about Braintree and then I'll have Jamie talk about potentially some of the other products and businesses. So let me take you back. Braintree, if you go back a few years ago, was really trying to establish itself in the market. It hasn't delivered at scale, and there were gaps in the product. We've invested heavily in the product and have really focused on some of the largest U.S. enterprise customers, which now have proven the scale while we've gotten the product to parity. Then you look at what we just rolled out with innovations like Fastlane, I think we've now leapfrogged the competition.

So what does that allow us to do? It allows us to be the one-stop shop for merchants, it allows us to provide a best-in-class experience on auth rates and give them the ability to have not only the best processing and unbranded, but also package that with PayPal and with all the other ways that customers want to pay, including Buy Now, Pay Later.

We now are shifting towards being able to have a price-to-value conversation with our merchants and being able to really start to think about how will we ramp up go to market for not only Braintree, but also PPCP.

We also are now moving into markets that have higher margins. So international and small business with both Braintree and PPCP allow us to now, again, price to value and have different conversations. So that is how we think about it. We're not focused on unprofitable growth when it comes to Braintree. We think we now have the product in market to be able to compete effectively and win.

James, a quick clarification and I have a question for Alex. But you said that starting from the first quarter, you'll be including stock-based compensation in your non-GAAP rather than excluding it. So does that mean that if we just imagine that we fast forward a few months, that the non-GAAP earnings would be reduced by roughly that $1.8 billion. Just looking for a little bit of clarification there.

And then, Alex, you made an interesting comment in terms of like feeling things are too big organizationally. But I'm wondering how you're feeling about the tech stack right now and the level of integration and where we're at from that perspective in terms of your ability to drive the kinds of improvements and perhaps add functionality to improve the customer experience.

And then, James, on your question around the tech stack. Look, I'll be transparent. The company has gone through significant growth over the last few years and a lot of acquisitions. We have not invested enough in creating a single platform. That again slows us down when it comes to innovation, and it slows us down when it comes to being able to leverage the data across the ecosystem. We are investing heavily in that now and starting to see real improvement.

I mentioned a couple of things on the call, but really being able to put out a reporting system that now sees across the entire ecosystem, being able to see a single view of the customer so that now we can provide innovations to customers but also actually be able to cross-sell and be able to say, "hey, this is a customer that has this risk profile and should be in these 2 or 3 different products", is a huge win for us as we start to consolidate. It also just accelerates our engineering velocity, being able to have a services-based engineering team that can build once and deploy across the entire ecosystem is the direction that we're heading in. And so you started to see that. We -- even the innovations that we just put out over the last couple of weeks weren't really possible without us being investing heavily in the platform. But I also would say we have a ways to go. And so it's a primary focus for me and the organization and will drive velocity and efficiency.

Yes. Thanks for the question, David. We are tracking this closely. Apple is a great partner of ours. And our customers that love PayPal on the online e-commerce side are demanding -- being able to have an omnichannel and off-line solution as well. So we'll be working closely on this. And when it is available, we will be ready to be able to deliver for our customers, both online and off-line.

So all of the innovations are incredibly exciting for us, but let me be specific on your question. The two that I am closely watching and our teams are executing on immediately is really a focus on the branded experience. This is both for the combination of merchants and consumers, easing that experience for a customer to choose PayPal, have a reward that comes back to them, ensure that they're able to get through the experience with velocity and check out every time with PayPal, is a huge focus for us, and that's where we are driving a new app experience. And again, all of these innovations will be coming out over the next couple of weeks to months.

Then we have to drive adoption. So that is having conversations with merchants, ensuring that they're upgrading to our latest innovations, that's ensuring that we make it easy for them as well. So that's why you've seen us launch a new developer portal. We're creating no-code, low-code experiences so developers can take the demand that they've shown because they have a best-in-class experience now and get it into market. So step one is I'm very focused on that branded experience.

The second one is on the unbranded side, which is ensuring that Fastlane gets rolled out. That, to me, starts to create an interesting network effect of us being able to have not only a branded experience, but for them, those consumers that pass a branded experience, whether it's ours or anyone else's and want to just go through a guest checkout flow, we're able to identify them, we're able to help them and our merchants complete the transaction. And then we're able to have a follow-up conversation with that customer as well because they've gone through our Fastlane experience. So those 2 to me, we need to get rolled out, we need to get points on the board and show that it's driving, but driving outcomes, but that is where I'm most focused on right now.

Fantastic. Thank you, Sarah, and thank you all for joining us today. I want to reemphasize that 2024 is going to be a transition year focused on execution to position our business for long-term success. I'm excited with where we're positioned in the market, and I know that there is a real opportunity to grow our role in commerce. We're driving the foundational and transformative changes that will set the company up for the future. Thank you.