James Cracchiolo
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (AMP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. So those balances are in money markets and brokerage CDs short term that will roll off. And so as they do, I think advisers will evaluate whether they put that back into the market. And if they did, I would probably say a portion of that would go back, a reasonable portion, will go back most likely into wrap type programs, imbalanced type portfolios, which would include both equities and fixed income, et cetera, alternatives.

On the other side of it, there, we've seen a bit of a pickup in some transactional activity as well in the fourth quarter. So some of that will go back into transactional type activities as they look at longer duration type products as well. So again, that's really as advisers look at the market and they put money to work over time for their clients.

Yes, Suneet. So it is sort of like double the amount that clients are holding usually compared to where they used to be. And again, advisers look at it with their clients and they're getting a 5-plus yield on it, just to sit tight, with unclear about the market moves, et cetera. So I do believe that over time, that money will be redeployed, but holding at higher rates right now, it's not an uncomfortable thing for clients that are advised us to keep extra cash there.

In fact, the money is at Ameriprise. The advisers have just put it into whether money market or brokered CDs, where there was a bigger lineup of brokered CDs before we had our bank and CDs that we'll be launching. So I think it's a -- vary. But they -- just as they did that, they put it into our own certificate program as well, and that grew nicely. It's up to $13 billion in total.

So I think it was just the outlets for where to talk the cash. I think as we put more bank products in, as we develop the bank, some of that will go into our bank products. We think also there's an opportunity for us to capture more cash from our clients holding it at their banking institutions. But the money that's currently that $81 billion is at Ameriprise. And as that rolls over or opportunity the advisers to rebalance accounts, they'll put that money to work.

Yes. So what we did is we had some teams that we felt they're managing small levels of assets, and it wasn't economical for us in those areas. But we have good teams that could have assumed those assets and had good performance. So we made adjustments there. But in so doing, yes, we have reviewed our overall front office and all of the products and the portfolios and the capabilities that we have on the investment side.

We feel there's a good opportunity. We always have that in the equity part of the arena. But we feel really that we do have a good fixed income and credit shop and that we think there's opportunity for us to actually get a greater fair share there as we continue to look at what the environment is. And so -- but we've evaluated that both domestically and internationally. And we're picking our pockets of where we really want to double down.

Yes. The team is focused on the RIA channel as well in developing our distribution platform capabilities there. And we will put some emphasis there as we move forward as part of our intermediary distribution capabilities.

Yes. We feel unbelievably good about our total platform for the advisers, from our combination of CRM platform, which is the latest and the greatest of all the capabilities with all the integrated technology and data that they can use on their client portfolios and engagement, to our e-meeting capabilities that actually help them actually put together their actual proposals for clients and the engagement of meeting with them regarding their needs.

Two, even our AI capabilities, helping them identify opportunities in their book.

So we feel really good about the suite of capabilities that we have, but those capabilities are all integrated, which makes the adviser much easier with their dashboards to engage their clients to manage their books and to have that deeper engagement with them through the advice planning models. So we feel really good and we're continuing to invest heavily. And that's complemented by all the mobile and the web capabilities that we have for them to do business. So we feel that we have a state-of-the-art type of system our availability is very strong. And so we feel it is a differentiating point for us.