Jim Taiclet
Lockheed Martin Corporation (LMT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning.

Yes. Sure, Jay. So look, there's a near-term and a long-term approach that we're taking to government contracting with industry. And the near-term piece of it is a lot of what Jay just described, really matching the pricing and the risk profile within our company, I'll say. Now I don't know what other companies doing and how they're making their decisions. But what we've recognized and I've said to our senior customer base, look, we're in a monopsony environment here, meaning there's a single buyer for the most part, for almost everything that we make or Boeing Defense makes or Gel Dynamics makes.

And so I guess, the government's credit in a way, they've been taking advantage of that monopsony power, if you will, over the industry. And what's happened as a result of that over the last number of years or even decades is you have lots of programs which are over cost, cost overruns, right, whether fixed price or cost plus and you have scheduled delays because what that monopsony environment can do is give so much power to the buyer that some of the competitors feel that there are must-win programs for them that they will take tremendous risk on cost and pricing and tremendous cost on the ability to technically deliver these capabilities.

So when you multiply those two risks together, you get a lot of cost overruns, a lot of schedule delays, programs reviewed by Congress, et cetera. So I've been advocating in the near term and certainly implementing with our company, we don't have any must-win programs at Lockheed Martin anymore. If we have a good business opportunity with a balanced price risk profile, we will bid. If not, we will not bid. If we hit our limit parameters, we won't go beyond those, a competitor may win, so be it. And so that's our near-term approach to this.

The longer-term approach is in addition to delivering products that we and our cohorts in the traditional defense industry do so well, we need to start migrating towards delivering capabilities, right? So capability would include either products that are already fielded and/or new products, but especially digital technologies, which is why we are collaborating with so much effort with commercial tech companies large and small, because we can value price capabilities, right? If we sell products, and that's all we do as an industry, we are kind of locked into the far, the federal acquisition regulation as it is written today, which means even a fixed price contract, you've got to provide all your cost information, right? And you have to do it often every year even with a multi-year fixed price, and there can be adjustments.

So we want to move as briskly as we can as an industry with our commercial partners to their kind of pricing, which is value-based subscription. That's going to take time. It's going to take changes in government. It's going to probably take literally act of Congress to do it. But that will be the thing that will make our industry healthier on one hand, the traditional defense and aerospace industry, but it will also invite in the commercial tech companies who are basically, if you look at the broad scope investing 10x what we are in R&D. And we want to bring a lot of that 10x R&D and all that talent over into the defense department as part of their supply chain, but it's really tough under the bar for those companies to put time and attention and effort into DoD. So that's the long-term -- a long-term solution, but the near-term solution will also continue.

Good morning.

Look Doug, it's Jim. I think we can continue at this rate. Demand from the U.S. services and our international customers, Air Forces, Navy's, et cetera, around the world is they need the aircraft, right? They've got to recapitalize the planes that they're still flying that I was trying to get when I went to pilot training in 1983, right? So this is essential that this production line keep up, it's the -- basically, it's the recapitalization of the Allied fighter aircraft for us is the F-35.

And so I think the key to that is full transparency and realizing the reality of the situation. When you're trying to drive this much technology into an air vehicle, you've got to be honest about the schedule. What can industry do, what can the test and evaluation community handle in the various military to accept that technology and what's the supply chain capacity. And we're being brutally honest with our services and our joint program offices to what we think industry can do with us and our airplane.

And industry is who makes the radar. Industry is who makes the EOT, the electrical optical system. The industry is who makes the electronic warfare suite. It's not us. So we have to be brutally honest as an industry and with our suppliers' inputs to that with the government and say what is feasible to keep the production rate up. I think that's starting to get traction. I hope it gets more traction, because we cannot afford to be overoptimistic in the ability to deliver these technologies as rapidly as one might like. There are real technical and physical challenges to doing this. And well our commitment to the government, meeting the service chiefs and our allies is I will tell you honestly, what we think industry can do with the jet. And if you want to push it beyond that, I'll tell you what the risks are and what the cost might be to do it. But let's agree on a feasible executable plan for exactly Doug, what you talked about.


Good morning.


And then when it gets to moving towards a value pricing model, Sheila. The first place that's already starting to happen is in command and control, command situational awareness, information advantages our customers would call it. So those are largely digital services, right? You've got sensors on satellites, aircraft, ships, radars out scanning the sky, infrared sensors in space looking for looms of heat when a missile is launched, things like that. That's data, right? So how do we gathered all the data from our sensors, whatever domain they happen to be in land airspace, et cetera. How do we make intelligent data fusion, and then present commanders and decision makers with options using AI and other digital services.

So this will be probably the first place where we can value price because my goal is to bring in commercial technology to do that digital, digital data fusion, evaluation, AI application, et cetera. As I said a minute ago, commercial industry is investing 10x what our aerospace and defense industry could invest in these areas, and we need to take advantage of that. The only way they're going to participate in a material fashion in that industry is value pricing. They're not going to provide cost information. It's just not how their industry works. They're not delivering an airplane that you can add up all the costs that it took to make that airplane and give it to the government, so they can give you the margin on top.

So these command and control systems, and they're real programs, by the way, defensive Blohm is a program like this, AIR6500 is one dimension. And also something called Joint Fires Network, which will be deployed in the Indo Paycom Command of the U.S. So this is where I think it will start. And then as we look at mission road maps that we've established and drawn out inside of Lockheed Martin, and we're now sharing and have been sharing with the U.S. services and VOD. We're looking for capability gaps where digital technology can really make a difference, right?

So I'll give you one really quick one. So if we could get a direct feed from an orbiting satellite scanning a wide swath of the Pacific to find ships and actually directly provide that data link and that information to aircraft flying in the area, then those aircraft can vector towards those targets and turn on their radars and get a much more precise location and maybe even a tracking solution to sync the ship if that's what's needed.

And so that's a mission gap, a capability gap that we would have in an antiship mission. And so how do we value price that because that's basically a data management exercise, which requires what we call 5G.MIL. It requires an artificial intelligence solution within it, and it requires the management of that data at various classifications, which is something not many companies can do besides those in our industry.

So we can value price something like that. And I think it'd be a capability gap that would be interesting to the Department of Defense, and they might accept value pricing, but not to take too much time on this topic. But one of the things that we're really advocating for at Lockheed Martin, and we've got some friends of the court trying to work with us on this is, how do we set up an adjacent acquisition process in the Department of Defense to its traditional acquisition process, designed and reconstituted and originated to purchase digital services versus platforms and products, which is what the traditional acquisition system is built to do.

That is a heavy lift. It is very complicated. It's what I've kind of referenced earlier, where you're literally going to need to act the contrast to do this. But if we want to value price as an industry, bringing commercial partners at scale, I think the government needs to consider and actually go do this with us.

Hey, Ron.

Ron, it's Jim. Look, the Black Hawk, and I've gotten a flight autonomously and by hand actually. I think has a lot of potential. There's interesting Congress for modernization of the Black Hawk. There's a huge fleet out there. And by adding some of these digital capabilities like autonomy and AI to the Black Hawk, which is a really reliable platform that's offline in units today in great numbers and across our allies. That's a real, I think, value opportunity for the Army's in ring cores and others that use the helicopter.

So I do think there's a lot of upside there. I don't want to comment on anybody else's programs or how well or not they may be doing, but this is a proven scaled vehicle with digital technology upgrade and insertion can be very, very versatile. And that can be done much more rapidly than new production of new aircraft. So I do think that there is upside there. Now the services and Congress have to agree. And to that and fund those modernizations and keep those units flying. And that will be up to them. But we are trying to provide them every opportunity to make that decision by inserting digital and other technologies like autonomy that will really make the aircraft much more capable in doing missions like air evacuation, resupply of the hot landing zone, things like that, that when you put it into the entire equation, of completing a mission, it will be a good value to consider it.

I'll make a couple of comments and ask Jay to follow. The steps that we're taking to take the fragility out of the missile production system are varied. One of them is -- and it's very specific, we are endeavoring to stand up a third solid rocket motor supplier in the United States that can be additive to the industry supply chain we have today, which hasn't been performing well, right? That's one piece. More broadly, we're using additive manufacturing, and we're bringing in more varied suppliers into the supply chain, so that we can get the materials we need from a more diverse set of group of suppliers outside of solid rocket motors.

And also, we're looking at international opportunities to build this equipment including in Australia and in Poland, U.K. and others are kind of on tap for coproduction or joint ventures with us to do these things, in Germany, I should mention as well. So these are some of the approaches we're taking. And it really comes down to these three areas, which is how can we on one hand take basic steps in anti-fragility to more suppliers, more diversity on the supply chain, different labor pools, better training, those kinds of things where it's just basic.

Secondly, how can we insert technology to make this more reliable production system, which we just mentioned. And then thirdly is how do we get international countries and take advantage of their labor forces, their supply to sub-supply chains, et cetera, and get them into the production system. So we look at this in all three areas of our core company strategy and apply it to missile production. Jay, anything you want to add?


Hey, George.

George, hey, it's Jim here. I think the story, I told a little bit earlier today is what caused that. There was margin compression in the whole industry here, driven by the [indiscernible] [1:00:20] customer, if you will. So they got pretty good at figuring out how to use their position in the quarter analysis of how they should negotiate contracts. And what I think you're seeing is boards and management of companies in our traditional space, I'll call it, are understanding this now, the management tends to not necessarily -- senior management tends not to necessarily be historically wedded to this business model and looking at other ways to run these companies.

And so we are taking the shareholders' interest into account and all the things we talked about, which should help improve our margins, even though it may result in some difficult discussions with some of the customer base. We're prepared to do that. But I think over the last 10 years, as you said, there's been a decline and it needs to reverse to have a healthy industry.

Okay. Thanks, Maria. So over the past 12 months, again, I mentioned the people of Lockheed Martin have worked relentlessly to advance this vision we have for 21st Century security and transform our company internally, and they created produced and delivered cutting-edge capabilities that are focused on what the defense department says as its own strategy that they call integrated deterrence. And we're trying to maintain our company values along the way, and that's to do what's right, respect others and perform with excellence. And all this yields positive results for our employees at work here, our customers and our suppliers and especially our shareholders.

So thanks again for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call in April. Luis, that concludes the call. Thank you.
