Jeff Harmening
General Mills, Inc. (GIS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, John.

Yes, John, thanks for the question. And I'm glad to take a half a step back. I mean, if you look at our last year, I mean, I think it's important to remember that, we grew sales at 10%, operating profit at 8% and EPS at 10% while investing in the business, double-digit growth in marketing and double-digit growth in capabilities. And so the -- as we look ahead, and our guidance also reflects our continued investment in growth.

If you look ahead, we're going to be on track of our metrics on sales and operating profit and EPS and ahead of our long-term algorithm for dividend growth, which reflects the strong year we just had as well a confidence in the year ahead. So as we -- you're right, we've been investing for growth. We'll continue to invest for growth while we continue to drive higher levels of productivity, which you saw in our release and while supply chain disruptions get less, which, again, allow us to drive gross margin, which creates a really good flywheel for growth.

And so as you take a step back from last week's Nielsen data, what happened this last quarter, we feel great about the year and we feel confident about the year that's going to come up. And I think that confidence stems from the fact that we have been agile in the last few years. And it's not an accident, we've grown share in the majority of our categories each of the last five years, and it's been hard work and good marketing. And as we look at the growth ahead, one of the things we're excited about is that the freeing up of supply chain and the normalization of supply chain gets us back to the kind of productivity we've been looking for and gets us back to getting rid of some of the pandemic era costs.

But more importantly, freeze the rest of the organization up to get distribution to drive the innovation. We've got a really good new product innovation this coming year. And then finally, that's our marketers market, and we've got really good ideas. And so we feel good, and I appreciate the step back.

Yes, Ken, this is Jeff. Let me start off with kind of how I see this broadly and then maybe Jon and Nudi can provide some commentary specifically. But -- and look, I respect the fact that the factory inventory decline was a surprise given our strong deals and trends, and we feel great about our movement trends. And we did have a five point headwind in this quarter, and we didn't see that coming when in the quarter began. So that is true.

What I'm pleased with is actually we were able to hit our guidance on profitability and exceed margins and EPS despite the fact that we had this big headwind. We don't see this as a General Mills-specific trend, and we don't see this as something going forward. It truly is a couple of big customers were trying to get their inventories back to a good place and which I understand, the carrying cost of inventory is higher, interest rates are up. They're trying to work their balance sheets. And so in retrospect, perhaps it shouldn't have been a surprise, but it certainly was an order of magnitude.

I don't see it as a red flag for us. And I'm not - I don't see it actually as a red flag for the industry as well. But I want you to know from my chair, is something that's kind of behind us and it's not General Mills specific. But Jon, if you have any specifics you want to add?

Yes. The -- we did have -- we had a rough start to the first half of the year. There's no question about that. And the primary driver of that was lack of capacity. What I feel very good about in our Pet business is that we've rebounded and our service levels are back in the 90s. The Pet team worked very hard to get there. It's more expensive than we would like because we have to go outside for external supply chain, but we've rebuilt our capacity. So that's not a concern going forward. What I also feel good about is we did what we said we're going to do.

We said we're going to grow at double digits in the back half of the year, and we have done that. I would also say that our dry pet food business is getting better, and we thought that would be the first recovery and it has. It's responded very well to advertising. Life Protection Formula, I think, was up more than 20% in the fourth quarter. Our treats business, we said would improve, but would follow that and it has, and it actually grew in the fourth quarter and there is much more to do on treats. We can now market that business, and we have full capacity.

And then we set our wet test food business with lag and unfortunately, we were right up that too, and it did lag. And so I think for our pet food business, I would characterize it, I feel good that we have improved and there is more work yet to do. And so as we look at this coming year, our supply should not be an issue for us. It will come at a higher cost. So I still expect us to grow our sales and maybe our profit has ahead of sales, but a big improvement in profitability would come until fiscal '25 when we can internalize all of our capacity.

Yes, Andrew, I'll take it and then Kofi jump in if there's anything you want to add. Our expectation -- again, we don't give specific volume guideline growth. But having said that, we said our top line to grow 3% to 4%, and we'll have mid-single-digit inflation, roughly 5%.

And so we do see pricing this year. I'm confident that our pounds will be better in fiscal 2024 than they were in fiscal 2023, which is to say they'll certainly decline less. Whether they get to positive or not? We'll see. That's a really difficult thing to call, especially because of the mix factor involved.

I'll give you this last quarter in China, our sales grew really nicely, but our pounds were down is because we sold more expensive Häagen-Dazs ice cream and less one and the Wanchai Ferry dumplings. The same could be true set of our foodservice business where we sold less flower and more of other things. So our pounds were down.

So how is a little bit tricky because of mix, but in all I would expect that our – our sales certainly won't -- our pounds certainly won't be as negative as they were in, they may be positive. We'll wait and see. But I think it will be much more competitive on that front. But for sure, we'll see some pricing because we still see inflation in the marketplace.

So let me -- so it is true, our balance sheet is in great shape, thanks to the profitability we've had for the last few years as well as all the work we've done to unpayable and receivables asset. So our balance sheet is in really good shape. We do have a lot of flexibility.

The first point I would say that even though we have a lot of flexibility, we're still going to remain disciplined. To the extent we look at M&A, we have about 50 basis points of growth we'd like to get from M&A over the coming years, both through acquisitions and divestitures. And so in general, we'll look for businesses that are accretive to our growth.

And in categories we're already in or adjacent to categories we already participate where we think we have a competitive advantage. And to the extent we do those things and they're bolt-on acquisitions, we would expect some synergies to come with that growth. And so I'm not going to get into a specific category that we're looking at. You can probably guess them as well as anyone else. But they would be growth -- but I can say they'll be growth oriented, and there will be places where we think we have competitive advantage, and we can create value for shareholders.

Good morning.

Well, Pamela, first of all, thank you for asking about that. Gross margin was a highlight for the quarter. And it was a highlight for a year and I think it will be a highlight in the coming year as well, and we're really proud of what we'll be able to do on the gross margin front over the last couple of years. And so probably turn it over to Kofi with more specifics, but appreciate the question.

Yes, I would say on the -- as we look ahead to our marketing and our -- the promotion environment, the first thing I would say is really important to remember that we still have inflation. I mean, there have been a lot of -- a lot of commentary about disinflation or going negative, but we don't actually see that. And it's driven by labor cost inflating. So I think that's the first and most important thing to remember as it relates to the promotion environment.

We would expect that promotional frequency would increase a little bit and importantly, the quality of our merchandising, especially display merchandising, will improve. And the reason we think that will improve is that retailers have more confidence that we'll be able to supply the business because our service levels are back in the 1990s.

And when that happens, they're more confident in displaying, display merchandising for us has very high rates. And so -- and it does for a retailer as well. So we're kind of aligned and wanting to do that. And now we feel as if we can. And so as I look ahead, I'm not sure the promotion intensity is really going to increase that much. I think it's going to be maybe a little bit of frequency and actually more quality, if you will, merchandising levels.

As it relates to marketing, we really like our marketing across our biggest categories, and that's why we've been investing in it. And we'll continue to invest in it. I'm not going to lay out a number of our marketing will improve x-percent, but what we have said is long-term, our marketing spend will grow in line with our -- in line with our sales growth. And over the past few years, our marketing is actually up 35% versus pre-pandemic levels.

So we've actually done that benefit us in this year ahead because, what I can tell you is that consumers in this environment and customers, they're all looking for new ideas and ways and our customers are looking for ways to grow. And so we feel good about our marketing spend in the year ahead.

No, I think that's very fair, David. And I can understand your angst on this point. I guess I would do a couple of things. We talked about three-year -- three-week data. Last time I remember talking about three-week data was back in December when there was a panic about what was going to happen due to timing of Christmas and New Year and Nielsen data and then it turned out that it wasn't as bad as people thought. So I think that's a cautionary tale about three-week data.

The other thing I would say is that if you look at two-year comparisons over the last few weeks, what you'll see is that the last couple of years, the trends haven't changed all that much. Having said that, I mean, as you look at the last two weeks, it's pretty clear that elasticity -- volume elasticities have increased. And it's something that we expected, and we baked into our guidance for the year.

And so, elasticities have not been zero, but they've been quite low. We would anticipate as the year goes on, that elasticities will increase, and that's what we have seen. And so I want you to know, we're not too surprised by the last quarter's trend and it's anticipated in our guidance.

And so that's what -- but look, it's a hard period to model from that perspective, but that's what we think is going to happen is that we elasticities will increase, but that's accounted for in our guidance already. In the last three week trends, I wouldn't follow those all the way out the window.

Yes, Max, I think you just set you summarized it nicely. What we see here, there are a couple of different trends. And remember, the pet category is almost a $50 billion category. So, there can be lots of trends going on at the same time.

Importantly, there's still a trend toward humanization, which is why I think you see our dry pet food recovering so nicely and why you see our treats business recovering. At the same time, there is -- people are more mobile. And so they're not -- in aggregate, the treat segment is down a little bit, and the wet segment is down a little bit because consumers are not home as much. And so they can't do it on their pets as much as when they are at home all the time.

On top of that, as consumers are feeling the pinch from inflation, there is some downward pressure in several other places on sales. And I think you see that most pronounced in wet foods a little bit a treat. It's a tailwind for our dry pet food business. And so that's one of the reasons why we see that improving. And so -- but I think in general, you have the plot, which is that our wet pet food business has not recovered as fast as we thought. Part of it is due to mobility, part of it is due to service, and part of it is due to behavior in the current environment.

And Max, I would just say, beyond capacity, supply disruptions are probably the biggest tailwind for us. Last year at this time, we had significant issues on things like yogurt and bars. This year, we're feeling much better about the way we're performing. So, at least for North America retail, we feel really good that we'll be able to supply all of our businesses and merchandise behind them for the first time in several years, which we feel very proud about.

I would say on the benefits to margin expansion, we have some pricing that we have already taken that kind of wraps around in the current year, and you see that in the current results. You certainly saw that in the fourth quarter. You'll also see our productivity levels in Pet are good. And the fact that our supply chain has not disrupted also helps bring down the cost. And so all of those things go to the gross margin level.

Kind of what partially offsets that is the fact that we have external manufacturing and not our own internal manufacturing. And so the benefits of some of that will not be as great as they would have been otherwise. I would also say that we're really -- we -- as much as we are on a focused profit recovery on Pet we really want to drive growth. And so we will invest in marketing and capabilities to make sure that we accelerate our top line growth on that.

And so we may see a little bit more gross margin expansion than we do operating margin expansion. And that's simply because as we get healthier on supply chain, we'll reinvest some of those savings back into driving top line growth on Pet.

Yes. And when it comes to pricing, we're not going to comment specifically on forward-looking pricing. Having said that, we did say that the majority is in the marketplace already. That is true. We operate in markets all over the world, some with different inflationary pressures than others. So it's not just – it's not really just about the U.S.

But we feel good about what we see right now with our pricing and the inflationary environment that we see, but we all know these things can change over time. And so we think we have most of what we need in the marketplace already, but there may be a category where we need a little bit more than maybe a geography or where we need a little bit more because the inflationary prices are different.

Yes, sure. As I look at it, I mean, the promotional environment has been quite rational. And I suspect that it will be going forward. I haven't seen anything yet to lead me to believe otherwise. As we look at what's going to drive growth, I think it will be a number of factors. One I would lead with this new product innovation.

Even though our new product innovation has led our categories each of the last four years, it's still below what we would have expected normally. And the reason is not because we haven't had good innovation is because some retailers were reluctant to bring it in, because their own supply chains were pressured, our own supply chains were pressured.

And so, as I look at the year ahead, I like our new product innovation network, we have to come. But I also think we're going to get better distribution on innovation we've had over the last couple of years where we didn't get full distribution even though it may have warranted given the quality of the innovation that we've had. And so, I think that will be a driver.

The same with distribution, and I look to our pet business, especially on our distribution levels of treats and wet because we haven't been able to supply the business. And so if you can't supply the business, that means that you're going to lack some distribution. You may have some distribution gaps. And so distribution growth across a couple of our key categories in North America Retail, as well as Pet is certainly going to be an opportunity for us.

And then with promotional spending, I think the quality of our merchandising, and we have very good tools to understand what the return on investment are so to our retailers. And so, I don't know that it's going to be a significant increase in amount of merchandising.

I think it's going to be, I would hope, and I would certainly anticipate an increase in the quality of the merchandising, which should be good growth drivers for our customers, as well as for us. And because, in our categories, they are really able consumption categories. And the more you have in your pantry, the more you tend to use.

And so, those are some things that I think will be the drivers, along with increased marketing, and our marketing has been very good. And we have a lot of tools to ascertain where the best marketing spend is going to be in. We've been investing in our brands. We'll continue to invest in our brands, and that will certainly be a source of growth for us.

So I'll end this call where we started, which is to say, as we take a quick step back, we're really pleased with the year that that's just happened and 10% sales growth, 8% operating profit growth. That's included -- that excludes a 3% headwind from divestitures as well as earnings per share growth that are double digits. As we look forward, our guidance is to be in line or exceeding our long-term growth algorithm on sales, operating profit, EPS and certainly on dividend increases.

And so, we are confident about the year ahead and that confidence is driven by our ability to navigate a number of environments these past three years. And will this next year look different from the last? Of course, it will. But we know that already, and we're confident that we have a team and brands and capabilities that will thrive in the year ahead. And so we look forward to keeping the conversation going.