Jenny Parmentier
Parker Hannifin Corporation (PH) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So first of all, your question on international, like I was talking about earlier, obviously, the backlog is still strong. It’s above 30%. But those customer shutdowns that I mentioned, that takes weeks out of the schedule that we hadn’t seen previously. So, a return to that is one of the reasons.

And then obviously, since the last time we talked, we’ve seen a slowing in Europe. We’ve seen the demand not be as strong in certain regions. And then the China recovery is -- we haven’t seen the rebound from the stimulus that had been previously anticipated. So, that is all weighing in there as well.

So, we did see destocking happen in Q4, and we just expect that to continue through the first half. I’ll let Lee comment a little bit on the specifics of some regions and markets.

Thanks, Joe.

Yes. Thank you, Joe. So obviously, we’ve already talked a bit about what we expect to see, a continuing destocking and just kind of a softening in orders despite a very positive sentiment from the customer. So in the first half, in North America, we’re projecting 2% growth and overall for the year, 1%. So, we think that there’s some macroeconomic uncertainty in the second half. But in the first half, we fully believe that this strong backlog is going to support what we have in the guide.

So, the backlog, again, above 30%, a little bit down, about 2% down, from last quarter but very strong. And in talking with our customers, we continue to constantly pressure test this and analyze it. And we’re not really seeing any major pushouts or cancellations, so we feel good about the guide we have out there.

Sure, sure. So, the first half for aero is 12%. So obviously, we’re going to see some nice growth here in the first half. And in the second half, we have 5%. And the comps get pretty tough in the second half. So, we feel good about that 8% organic number right now.

So obviously, we’re seeing really nice growth in commercial OEM. We see those narrow-body rates increasing. Wide-bodies are starting to recover, but really, it’s a story about narrow-body rate increases.

And then MRO, as Todd mentioned earlier, the Meggitt acquisition has really increased our aftermarket exposure. And it’s been really strong with the air traffic recovery, especially with those narrow-bodies.

And we’re pleased to see military OEM return. Obviously, the military budget increase is going to drive mid- and long-term growth. F-35 is nearing peak delivery. So all good news there. And then, same thing with military MRO. I mean, there’s a focus on retrofits and upgrades as the fleet ages. So really good outlook for all of aerospace going forward.

So, you questioned about Meggitt integration. I mentioned in the slides, we couldn’t be happier with the progress of that integration. We’re forecasting another $75 million in synergies in FY24. Team did a great job in FY23 of pulling some actions ahead and allowing us to increase those synergies by $15 million. So really just a positive outlook for aerospace.

Yes. We don’t wait for an event, Andrew. It’s something we’re always working on.

Thanks, Andrew.

You just answered the question, right? We expect those narrow-body rates to go up, and it’s definitely a matter of mix.

Yes. So, we’re committed first to pay down our debt. That is our number one priority and our focus. We’re always working in the pipeline. We have long-standing relationships with people we talk to now as we have in the past. So, that’s not something that we ever let go stale or dry. It’s a continuous pipeline. So, for now, we’re focused on paying down debt, and we expect to get in the range of about 2 times by fiscal year 2025. And I’m sure we’ll talk about it in the future.

I guess, I would say, first of all, that it is very similar. But obviously, the Meggitt acquisition, as we’ve mentioned, has meaningfully increased our aftermarket exposure. So it’s mid-teens is what we’re projecting right now. And again, that air traffic recovery, especially with the narrow-bodies with this high domestic traffic, is that really what’s going to help that into the fiscal year.

Yes. So David, primarily when we talk about destocking, we are talking about distribution. But we’re just seeing a kind of a moderation of growth across all of our customers. So, don’t worry about margin degradation. We’re not going to allow that. We have all the right things in place to make sure that we hit our margin targets.

So really, it’s about -- we’re just continuing to see the benefit of this transformed portfolio, right? We’re continuing to see the power of the acquisitions that we’ve done over the last several years.

So the backlog, as I’ve said, is at 55% right now, and it went up 1% sequentially. So that -- we talk about that backlog being so strong and especially, obviously, aerospace is in there. But in industrial being above 30% is roughly double what it was in the past. So we were sitting around 15% to 17% coverage in the past, and now we have 30%. So that’s really coming from the acquisitions we’ve done, the higher aftermarket, the longer cycle. So we’re seeing a more resilient and longer, I call it the demand horizon, a longer horizon on that backlog. So, we feel very strongly about it.

Now we know from the past that backlog isn’t bulletproof, but we are constantly pressure testing it, analyzing it, talking to our customers, which is really a great benefit of us being so decentralized because our divisions can have real-time conversations to make sure that that backlog is strong.

So I wouldn’t be able to break out all the details that you were just asking about between the channel and the OEMs, but I would tell you that over 30% coverage in industrial is a good place to be right now. And that’s why we feel good about covering the growth we have in the first half.

We are seeing some of it through our customers and our distributor partners. And you’re right, there’s just been a massive amount of announced CapEx. I mean, some industry sources are citing over $500 billion.

Some key examples of that where we will get into the game is the semi fabs and the electric vehicle battery plants that are now breaking ground. So, we win -- Parker wins when the job site is prepped, when the factory is built and when the machines go into the factory. So, it’s early days, but Parker is winning and will continue to win in the future.

Well, I don’t know that I can rank them right now, but I would tell you that I see activity in obviously, all three of them. If you start off just thinking about the CapEx, investment because of the reinvestment over the last 10 years, we’re seeing some -- just some upgrading of factories, a lot of work being done to really develop the supply chain and increase capacity. So, that ties into the investment, a lot of machinery and a lot to help really that supply chain development.

A lot of folks that got burned during the pandemic are going to dual source this. So that drives a lot of investment. And as I mentioned just a few minutes ago, the mega projects, we’re starting to see some of that. We’re hearing about involvement in that from some of our distribution partners. And it’s still early days, but there’s a lot out there for us to go win.

Yes. So, it’s interesting. I’ve been talking to a lot of people about supply chain, as always. And the aerospace supply chain is really experiencing what the industrial side of the business did 18 to 24 months ago. So just -- it’s a little bit tough. There’s constraints responding to the high rate increases and demand. But, I would tell you that outside of chips and electronics, we’re starting to see some lead times moderating. But overall, I would say it’s still a constraint for aerospace. So again, we work closely with our suppliers. We’re investing in developing suppliers, especially in aerospace, because obviously, with it being a third of our portfolio, it’s very important to us that we can deliver these orders.