John Stankey
AT&T Inc. (T) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi. Good morning, John. Happy New Year. So look, the -- first of all, on the aggregate market, as we've been indicating, we thought there was going to be a little bit of a slowdown from previous year's activity level. We saw that happen in '23. I think we're at a more normalized level right now. We're kind of expecting that is going to continue into next year. It'll be probably right around the same place. We're not going to see it dramatically different. And our expectations are we're going to continue to attack the market the same way we've been attacking it, and we've been really consistent about that over the last three years.

And I don't think you should expect to see that there is going to be any less sustainability of our performance than what you've seen over the previous couple of years in the strategies and the tactics we use. I think the market is a healthy market right now. I would say, if you would look at the fourth quarter and look at what we delivered on postpaid phone net adds, your point on gross is an accurate statement, and I think it reflects the fact that we're trying to be incredibly disciplined around profitable growth.

We managed to outgrow one of our peers that has already reported. We did that, I think, being very disciplined on our promotional levels and being very strategic in the channels that we operate in. As I've indicated on previous calls, we delivered an incredible churn level, which helped us do that. It's always easier to keep your customers than to churn them out. We've managed to keep that churn level while we've been growing ARPU. We're driving operating leverage and EBITDA growth in a really strong fashion. I think the equation is incredibly sustainable with what we're doing right now.

We're going to tweak it, and that's what I was alluding to and some of the things that we know there's some areas where we could probably do a little bit better. I suspect, looking at some of the numbers yesterday from what Verizon reported, there's some areas that they probably looked at and said that they can do a little bit better in, and we all have regional players that we play against and things that we do, like the cable companies, that, as we kind of understand the playbook and look at it, we can adjust how we approach that. They're kind of a new player in the market.

My guess is, after everybody comes out and reports, we're going to see that the three large incumbent wireless carriers have had very effective quarters. We all understand how to run our business. I think we're all being pretty disciplined around how we go about it. I think we're all conscious of the fact that we've invested at record levels and need to make sure that we're driving returns on those record levels of investments. And to me, that kind of lines up for a very sustainable outlook as we move into next year.

Sure. Morning, Simon.

So I would say first of all, and we've been really clear on this and it doesn't change, first and foremost, we want to invest at the right level in our business to make sure that we can grow it in a way that we think drives sustainable returns to our shareholders. Secondly, the dividend is something that we have to protect and make sure that we're offering a fair return on, and then getting the balance sheet where we want to get the balance sheet is absolutely critical.

When we arrive at that point, it's the time to make the decision, and the decision has to be made relative to where stock is trading, where interest rates are in the environment, what opportunities we have in front of us as a business to continue to grow things based on how policies evolve in this country, and where we think there is opportunity for us to grow and get fair returns. All those things will go into the Board's deliberation. I think what you're touching on though is we are about ready to enter the doorstep where we have choices around what we do with that capital, and that's the most important thing.

And I step back from the year of 2023 and look at the progress that we have made, not just on delivering the commitments that we made back to all of you and our investors, but the fundamental improvements in the structure of our balance sheet, the momentum that we have in the business and to be on the doorstep of those options is a really exciting thing in aggregate for the management team. And I think it shows an incredible amount of progress on the hard work.

We have a tremendous amount of optionality in front of us. As we shared with you, our balance sheet is in really good shape in terms of how we've been able to tear (ph) us out our obligations and the rates that we're paying on it, and how our organic cash flow will allow us to pay down the maturing debt that's in there. And so as we choose to drive more shareholder value, the field is wide open to us as to where we wish to go and what we wish to do, and we will do what is in the most and best interest of the shareholder at that point in time. And we view it as being a really important moment for us to arrive at. It's something the management team is focused on and is ensuring that we get there and we all know that it's incredibly important to driving the value in our stock.

On the ACP side, I guess the editorial comment I'll make is, it's unfortunate that we're at this moment, and I say that from the perspective of we have an awful lot of subsidy that's deliberate and overt, that are in regulatory structures today, which are important to ensure that every American can gain access to the Internet. And those subsidies, unfortunately in many cases, were set up and structured from many years ago, and they've been funded under constructs that have kind of run their time as industry and products have shifted and changed.

And from my point of view, regulators right now should be spending their time and energy stepping back from that and understanding how we take all the different subsidy structures in place and get them together in a coherent approach to ensuring those most in need can get subsidy that they need to be able to afford access to the Internet so that as a country, we can step back and say that everybody has access to capable, scalable Internet that allows them to do all the things that are so critical today.

And I think through a combination of ACP, universal service reform, other programs that are out there, that money is there, if there was a political will and a coherent policy put forward, that it would be good for the industry and good for our country. Unfortunately, we now are looking at a triage moment on one program, ACP. I don't know where it's going to go. I will tell you, either way it goes, we'll be fine. We've given you guidance fully knowing it can break one way or the other.

I'm comfortable that what we can deliver in our plan next year isn't going to hang on what the government chooses to do with ACP. If they choose to cancel the program and don't fund it and move forward on it, we have plays that we'll run. We have things that we'll do with our customers and how we approach the market and what we do to respond to it. And we believe we can manage through that in an effective way within the context of the size of our company and what we do and how we go to market.

If they go the other way and they do manage to fund it or fund it on some kind of a revised basis, AT&T will be continuing to lobby that regulators should be thinking about a more holistic and sustainable approach, trying to get this right for the future so we don't approach this moment again. It's some last minute circumstance and that we can have a thoughtful approach to it. And that battle will not go away, and I think it's the important thing for all of us to do.

On the BEAD side, Simon, I don't know that a lot has changed other than we've seen some incremental progress on a couple of states moving forward in their process. As I shared with you the last time I was asked this question, we'll probably have 50 different recipes of how BEAD ultimately works its way into the market. There may be some similarity between each of the states, but there clearly is 50 different states and 50 different points of view on this.

I think we're going to be very measured and targeted as to where we go in both in terms of the states that are setting up the right kind of rules that incent the joint private sector investment as well as the right rules that are sustainable for how you operate in that. I think a good news story is, I point to a state like Texas, I think was the largest benefactor of BEAD financing, seems to me policy wise they have a pretty sound approach to things. It looks to me like we can work effectively in the state.

Given it's a large amount, we'll probably have good opportunity there. There's a few other states that I look at and say I'm not sure the policies are going to line up effectively. The end of the day, as I said in my opening comments, we have 10 million to 15 million organic opportunities to go and invest and build. We know what the average cost per past location is for us to build those areas. It's a very controlled and measurable number. In some of the BEAD circumstances, the amount of private capital per living unit that's being required is actually substantially higher than what our average cost is and what I would call our organic and market-driven non-BEAD footprint.

And so if I think about I can get more scale, more households faster in places where the construct is very straightforward, the amounts and the plays to run are getting more scale in existing areas, that's what weighs against your incentive to invest. And I think states that understand that are coming up with smart policies to try to be competitive with that and states that don't understand that are probably going to have pretty voluminous and deep requirements that ultimately cause private capital to maybe shy away from matching in some of those areas.

Good morning, Phil. So look, I'll give you the same answer on pricing I think I probably give every time I'm asked it, and I just suggest there is a string of data points to go back and look at to kind of buttress up my observations on this, which is, we've been pretty deliberate about where we think we add additional value into our customers and whether or not we can ultimately drive price changes that are aligned with driving that incremental value.

And as I mentioned earlier, we've invested a heck of a lot in our networks. People are using over 30% more of it per year. They are getting more utility out of what we do, and the capability of the networks is allowing them to do more things in more ways. And as a result of that, I think that value is allowing us to go in, in places and certainly drive some renumeration for the level of investments that we're putting in. And you see it in our ARPU growth. I think we’ve shared with you that we expect probably some modest ARPU accretion in our guidance as we move through next year in the wireless space.

Some of that will come from moving people up to higher priced plans with more bells and whistles, and some of it will come through pricing movement. I would tell you, I go and I rest on our track record. You're seeing the numbers, you're seeing what we've been able to do. I think we can continue to run many of the same plays that we've run, and we're doing it with, I don't know, we may end up with another record churn quarter or best in industry churn quarter.

We'll be darn close to it, and we're doing it at levels of ARPU performance in the market that I think is pretty stellar. So my message is, I think we know how to do this. I think we've done it pretty effectively. I think the team is pretty diligent about it. I think there's opportunities for us to continue running the business the way we've been running the business. And I expect we'll have to do that in 2024 to deliver our plan and do what we need to do, inflation driven or not.

On AT&T Air, again, not much different in my narrative around it. I don't expect that we are going to be pushing the product in the same way that some others in the market are pushing it today. We've made a conscious choice as a company that we want to dedicate capital to investing in fiber, which we believe is a more sustainable, long-term means to deal with stationary and fixed broadband needs. It doesn't mean that we don't think that fixed wireless serves some segment of the market. It does. It serves certain types of circumstances in the consumer base. It serves certain types of circumstances in the business base. And we will take advantage of those certain circumstances.

As I've said, there's a lot of small businesses that have usage profiles that fixed wireless is very attractive to. It's something that we will lean into this year. You will see it reflected in our performance as we move throughout the year. We have places where because of our spectrum profile and our share position in particular markets, we can maybe lean in a little bit more aggressively in defining the consumer segment that we might serve with the product and service on a competitive market that you will see us begin to add some degree of market penetration on.

And as I've told you before, we will continue to use it very, very actively in our transition away from legacy assets as we begin to shutter copper footprint, take out square miles in our network, not have the operating costs associated with those fixed infrastructure that we can use this as a catch product. It's a very effective catch product in some of those areas, especially given the density characteristics of what's happened that we haven't built fiber there yet or we will not build fiber, but it still allows us to meet our obligation back to the customer base and our state franchise agreements etc.

So I don't think you're ever going to see a scale to the kind of monthly numbers and quarterly numbers you see coming from some of our competitors, but it's a great tool. It's a great opportunity for us to continue to grow. I think the most important thing to understand, as you've seen is, we are broadband positive, aggregate broadband positive, and we are going to continue to be aggregate broadband positive going forward. So not only are we growing EBITDA, we're going to now start growing the customer base and this will be one of the tools we use to have that ratable, sustainable growth that I think we've been seeking.

Dave, the way I would tell you, I go back to the question that was asked earlier about capital allocation, what we need to do. And I would say first and foremost, you've got to understand, we've given you guidance. We've made a set of commitments. Those are important to us. That's what we need to deliver. And whatever decision making we ultimately undertake has got to be within that context of ensuring that we're consistent in delivering back to you and our commitments.

What I would tell you, it's not just making a decision of, well, are there incremental homes you can go get with fiber. There are opportunities to present ourselves -- present themselves to our business in a variety of different places where we have a choice to say, well, we're a little ahead of plan or we were a little more efficient, should we do something else here or there and we'll take advantage of those things every time they pop up.

And I would tell you, very comfortable we're going to meet our commitment to you of 30 million passings, but I don't know, we could see something happen where we get a vendor's circumstance like we've seen in wireless, where somebody comes in and changes pricing and we get more efficiency out of something, or we see great results coming back in on the Gigapower side, and we decide that's a better place to go and allocate a little bit more capital.

All those things are evolving. We'll weigh them, we'll make decisions, and we'll come back in and we'll tell you what we're going to do, all within the context of we want to make sure we're consistent in meeting our commitments back to you.

Good morning, Michael. Happy to. So look, the economy has proven resilient. I expect the economy is probably going to continue to be reasonably resilient moving into this year. It's an election year. Not that I'm a great soothsayer of what it's going to drive in terms of policy, but it seems like there's wins lining up that, like you would expect, moving into an important election year, policy will probably be such that it favors, trying to keep growth in the right place.

And I think that will probably take what was a bit of a tenuous situation last year in terms of the rate of inflation decline and what that might do to growth rates and move us through a 2024 that's probably going to continue to be one where we perk along and see the economy growing. Our expectations are that we're going to see some kind of uptick in growth. We think the combination of a little bit higher than probably target level inflations and -- inflation and what's going on in aggregate in the economy, it's going to keep it a little bit tampered down, but it's something that we expect to still see to be relatively productive.

We haven't seen anything with the consumer that suggests they're not paying their bills or not in a position to continue to buy services from us. We certainly don't see anything in business formation right now that causes us any degree of concern at this juncture. So by and large, I think we feel like we're in a pretty good place moving into 2024, absent what I would call big exogenous variables in the global system that occurs. We feel like policy will probably line up pretty well.

On the business wireline side, I think there's a couple things I'd first say is, one, what was not the right stuff in the fourth quarter that we have to kind of acknowledge, one -- Pascal mentioned in his comments, we had nearly $100 million of one-time stuff that didn't repeat. That's certainly fully explainable, something we expected would be the case. The piece that probably I don't think we nailed at the beginning of the planning cycle for '23 that ended up transpiring over the course of '24 that further impacted that segment was wholesale revenues were weaker than what we expected.

Those are important revenues in the segment because they tend to be higher margin, more resilient subscription-based services. There's been a fair amount going on in the industry relative to restructuring of access services and wholesale. Some of it's been driven through M&A consolidation, some of it's through technology. We are through, we believe, the worst of that now. We've had two years of having to kind of deal with a lot of that repositioning and renegotiation of contracts. We think we're in a pretty good position where our visibility for '24 is better than where we have been, and don't expect that we're going to have quite the pressure we saw from that side of things that is a bit different from a forecasting and fundamentals perspective.

And then I go to how we have to execute differently. I've given a fair amount of information and focus on we're really shifting into the mid-market and trying to be a much more effective provider into the mid-market, and we are in fact seeing the green shoots of that occurring. It's moving a little slower than I might like. It requires us to open up entirely new distribution channels. It requires us to cultivate new relationships with ways to represent our products than what we've traditionally done, through what I would call direct owned and operated channels, requires us to rebundle and repackage the products a bit differently to be effective in that space of which we've been doing. And that requires us to do things like reprice, change systems, build capabilities for third parties to work with.

We are making progress and we're seeing that. We're starting to see that instantiate itself in fiber-driven revenues that are coming on the products and services we want to sell, which are connectivity-based products and services. And so we're going to continue to run those plays. We've got to get a little bit better at it. But I'd also say step back and realize that while we report segment wise for wireline only, you should understand that the business marketplace is an important marketplace to us. And on a combined basis, wireless and wireline, we're still growing EBITDA in that segment. And some of it is being driven from the goodness of more and more businesses are able to run the core of their company on a wireless infrastructure.

And you're seeing some of that put the pressure on the wireline side of the business, but we're benefiting from that on the pickup on the other side. And when we talk about things like fixed wireless asset and AT&T Internet Air being an opportunity for us, we will be in a much better position this year on the catch to do some of that. And frankly, that's not a trajectory move and a structural move that I think is a bad one for us over the long run. So that's kind of how I view the segment moving in. And we still think our brand plays incredibly well. We can walk in and have credibility. We've got the right products that ultimately customers want if we can get them distributed properly. And I have high optimism that as convergence becomes more important, we will distinguish ourselves further in the mid-market.

Yeah. Let me -- going back on the capital allocation issues, Tim, I obviously believe that we should not be at the sustained levels of investment that we're at right now for ever. Our point of view is, we're building infrastructure that's sustainable infrastructure that will build a franchise that will last for many years to come. The fiber investment is a hard one to do at the front end, but it's an incredibly durable investment. The depreciation levels on this go out a long time for a reason. And the beauty of the technology is, improving capacity on it is a relatively light lift incrementally once you got the glass in the ground.

So you've heard me talk about we should be at mid-teens as a percent of revenue in a steady state as we kind of get through the front end of this investment cycle. As long as we continue to perform in the market the way we've been performing on this elevated level of investment, I am comfortable that we should continue to do that, but we've got to continue to perform and make sure we deliver the right kind of results on that. So we've probably come through the worst of it at this juncture. We will get through kind of what we need to do on fiber before we're into another air interface investment.

And as I mentioned in some of my public remarks that I made in December, the fact that we're moving to ORAN will give us another way to kind of manage some of our capital intensity moving forward. The way I wish to describe that is it's not going to get us to different levels of historic investment, but it will be one of the tools that we do to manage our portfolio of capital investment between fixed and mobile services to drive the kind of returns we need to drive.

We're going to get more tools out of our ORAN investment to do that and still meet the needs of our capacity growth in a more efficient fashion in our wireless network moving forward that gives us the room to do some of the things that we want to do on the fixed side. So I feel pretty good about where we are. I think we're through the worst of it. We'll see it continue to get more efficient as we move forward. We'll be selective of where we can get those kind of returns based on our market performance, and overall, I think we're in good shape. Pascal, do you want to add anything on that?

Well, thanks. Appreciate everybody sticking with us, and I apologize about some of the longer prepared remarks at the front end, but that's not atypical as we try to give you some guidance and visibility into the business, and appreciate you enduring that. I would just reiterate what I said in my opening remarks that I thought 2023 was an incredibly solid year for us from an execution perspective at AT&T. I'm incredibly proud across the board of what we've done and the formula in optimizing the various parts of the business as we move through it. It's as solid, a fundamental year at AT&T as I can remember in recent history, certainly in a very long time.

If I think about those fundamentals, you see them manifested all the way through the balance sheet and our cash flow statement. And I think that's the most important thing to kind of step back from and realize this business enters 2024 in a very, very strong and healthy position. I'm excited about where we enter 2024. We've taken great steps to simplify our business.

We still have some more work to do in that regard, but we are entirely focused on the future right now, and it's a future that I believe lines up incredibly well for the asset base of AT&T as consumer tastes are changing, as we're seeing the move to convergence, as we see the growth that's occurring and the importance of high performance networking that I believe AT&T has the asset base and the positioning to move with where this future is going. And that's why I'm so optimistic about what we have in front of us.

And I think we're going to get to a very exciting place to start a 2025 where we have the choices in front of us that we would like to have and we've worked so hard to get. I'll give you one final housekeeping thing before we separate. This is Amir's last call with us. We've worked him hard the last three years, and I guess like any thoroughbred that we work hard, we need to send him on to his next chapter, and we're excited about what he's going to be able to do for us as we give him a new opportunity to show what he's been able to do and learn about the business.

And as a result of that, I hope you join me in welcoming Brett Feldman to AT&T. A couple of you might know Brett. He's been around a little bit. We're delighted to add Brett, and as good a job as Amir has done, and it's really hard to fill those Air Jordans, I'm sure Brett will do an exceptional job of that. We think it'll be a great addition to the management team and we'll continue to work hard to keep you in the loop moving forward. So thank you all very much for your time this morning, and we'll see you in 90 days.