John Doyle
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Elyse. Mark, maybe you could comment on that.

You have a follow-up, Elyse?

Sure, Elyse, and I'll make a couple of comments and then ask Martin to jump in. First of all, Marsh had an excellent year of growth at 8% underlying revenue growth for the year, a strong finish to the year. We saw fourth quarter of 2022 have slightly lower underlying growth as well, but we feel like we're very well positioned. Mark made a few comments about the growth in the quarter, but Martin, maybe you could add a little bit more color.

Thanks, Martin. So, Elyse, FINPRO pricing, as Mark mentioned, flood claims and the continued slow M&A environment, all factored in in the US, but again, we feel like we're very well positioned and demand is quite strong for us in in 2024. Operator, next question.

Yes, thanks for the question, Jimmy. Guy Carpenter just had an excellent year helping clients navigate what was a very, very choppy market in 2023. We certainly began 2024 with a more orderly market, but growth was outstanding, and I feel terrific about how we're positioned to help clients going forward. But Dean, maybe could share a little bit more insight on the market on 1/1.

Thanks, Dean. Jimmy, I would add, just in both the insurance and reinsurance market, the pace of loss cost inflation in casualty is the great unknown at the moment. We all know it's increasing. We all see mounting evidence of it, but that's the challenge for all of us in the market to sort through at the moment. Do you have a follow-up, Jimmy?

Sure. Mark, you want to?

Thanks, Jimmy. Operator, next question, please.

Yes. Thanks, Mike. No, I don't think so. We continue to invest both organically and inorganically, maybe not that at the pace of a few years ago, but that's an important metric for us that we track around how we're driving production capacity in all of our businesses. So, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we think the macro environment continues to be supportive of growth in our business. Nominal GDP will drive some growth. Inflation, while easing, is still elevated, tight labor markets. We were just talking about the cost of risk in casualty as well. And as a result of that, we think pricing in the market will maintain - will remain relatively stable as it's been really throughout most of 2023. So, we’re quite optimistic about 2024. Our outlook is positive. I would also say a couple of other things. We're a better business entering 2024. We've been working hard at that. Our mix continues to improve. I talked about that a little bit about some of the divestiture activity, but also the inorganic investment we made. And we'll continue to invest organically in the business as well, and demand remains strong. So, we're excited about 2024.

Sure. Health was a terrific story for us in 2023, and helping employers navigate what's a very, very complex and increasing cost environment will be very much on the top of our agenda in 2024 as well. Maybe, Martine, I'll ask you to comment a little bit about how we finished the year and what your outlook is around health for 2024.

Thanks, Martine. Andrew, next question, please.

Yes, thanks, David. Oliver Wyman had a terrific year, and as we all recall, we had a flat start to 2023. So, demand continued to pick up and sales continued to pick up throughout the course of the year, and we had a real strong finish. But Nick, maybe you could share a bit more color on what drove the growth and your outlook a bit.

Thank you, Nick. And David, I would add, Oliver Wyman is just one of the ways in which we can show up in a very, very different way in front of clients and prospects. And so, we have a unique collection of capabilities, certainly with them and the family. Do you have a follow-up, David?

Yes, thanks, David. As I said just a couple of minutes ago, I think we're a better business entering 2024 than we were in 2023. I thought we were an outstanding business leading into 2023, but we've been working hard at being a better growth business for many years now. Part of that's reshaping the mix of business. As we've talked about, investing organically and inorganically. We've spent a lot of time refining our client engagement models and investing in sales operations and technology to support sales. And of course, in 2019, we made the biggest acquisition in our history with JLT. So, we were building up these capabilities going into 2020 when, of course, the pandemic hit. So, I knew we were ready to run coming out of the pandemic. The macro environment, of course, has been supportive since the pandemic. And as I mentioned earlier, we expect the macros to continue to be supportive in in 2024. So, we think we're well positioned. As I mentioned earlier, we expect mid single-digit revenue growth or better. So, we're excited and quite optimistic heading into the year. Operator, next question, please.

I think you could ask Aon about NFP. I'm happy to talk about our middle market offering. I believe we have the best-in-class middle market US platform in MMA. It has been 12 years that we've been building our business here in the United States. And we've been building it out methodically and I’m very, very proud of it. We love competition. And so, I'll take our team in the market, but we're excited about our prospects at MMA. And candidly, I think we're just getting started. And when we began this effort 12 years ago, there were 30,000 independent agents in the United States, and today there are 30,000 independent agents in the United States. So, there's much more in front of us. Do you have a follow-up?

Yes. it's I think all of the above, but good sales and a value proposition to clients and prospects that they appreciate very much. I don't know, Martine, do you have anything to add to that?

Thank you, Martine. Thank you, Robert. Andrew, next question please.

Mark, maybe you can?

You have a follow-up, Meyer?

Well, we don't report margins by business, but you saw a good margin expansion during the course of the year. And again, our outlook for 2024 is for 17th year in a row to expand margins yet again. So, it wasn't material. We managed through it. There are parts of our business that are lumpy, right? That's why we caution everybody not to get too worked up about growth rates in a particular quarter. And the flood claim activity was largely related to Hurricane Ian-related work that we did at that time last year. Thank you, Meyer. Andrew, next question, please.

Yes. Look, Brian, what I would say first and foremost about talent acquisition is that we are very, very focused. I mentioned this in my prepared remarks about building a culture that attracts and retains the best in our work. The way we frame it, and we talk about being at your best at Marsh McLennan, right? How can we - for those that want to commit their career to risk strategy and people-related work, how is it that being at Marsh McLennan, you can be your best? And we frame those programs around learning and development, mobility, various aspects of wellness. And you get to do really purposeful work here. I mentioned the Ukraine work as an example earlier. You get to work with exceptional talent, and it's a collaborative environment and a learning environment. And so, I feel like we have the best talent in our business. I feel like our brand as an employer in the market is very, very strong. It doesn't mean everybody wants to work here. Of course, we're a big company and as we all know, there's lots of things that come with working at a bigger company. But I like how we're positioned. So, M&A, yes. Does it create opportunities for talent acquisition? Much like - we saw a bit of talent breakage when we acquired JLT. Folks sign up for working at a certain place, and when you have that kind of change, it's an opportunity possibly for folks to think through what they want to do going forward. I like how we're positioned in that respect. And then back to your other comment, yes, there are a number of bigger businesses, particularly in the risk space that are likely to change hands over time.

Yes, thanks, Brian. We remain very active in the market. As I said earlier, last year was our biggest year of acquisitions, other than 2019 when we did JLT, over a long period of time. We're very selective. We’re looking for high performing businesses, well led businesses in attractive markets. As I mentioned, we want growth businesses with the ability to grow earnings as well. The three bigger deals that I highlighted in my prepared remarks, we're very excited about Honan in Australia. It gives us really an anchor platform deeper into the middle market in what's a very important and attractive market for us. Graham here in the United States, another step forward for us at MMA and then BT Westpac in Australia, strengthening our wealth business. So, we have a couple of deals that we announced in the later part of last year. Vanguard's OCIO operation, a career business, those will close sometime over the next the next few months. So, we're going to continue to be active. Much like I was talking about our brand as an employer, our brand as a buyer is also quite strong, right? We do what we say we're going to do. And so - and then on valuations, four really attractive assets. Their multiples remain high. And so, anyway, but we'll continue to deploy capital that way. And as Mark mentioned, we'd rather deploy capital on attractive inorganic and organic investment for that matter over share buybacks. But in the course of a year, you never know how things will run. But the pipeline is quite strong at the moment. Thank you, Brian. Andrew, next question.

So, look, as I've said a couple of times on this call, we've been working very hard at becoming a better growth business. We're not an index on P&C pricing. Of course, we're exposed to it. And just to be clear, I wasn't trying to project higher casualty prices over time. Our job is to get the most efficient risk financing as we can for our clients. But what I can tell you is, it is quite clear that there's stress emerging in casualty. There's no question about it. There are some casualty cats that are out there that are concerning to underwriters and buyers, and we're just seeing greater frequency of mega settlements, and for that matter, even judgements on individual cases. Core inflation, of course, is something that's always a factor in the market. And you see that - you've seen some of that manifest itself in shorter tail lines from carriers. But we're all quite concerned inside of our risk business about where casualty loss costs are headed.

Yes. I mean, we're very proud of our businesses in both of those regions. They've been growth leaders for us over the last several years. I would point out, it's one of the things that JLT brought to us in 2019. We expanded our footprint and brought along much greater distribution in both Latin America and Asia. But Martin, maybe you could talk a little bit more about both of those regions.

Yes, thanks, Andrew, and Martin, for that. We continue to be excited about how we're positioned in those markets. Andrew, next question, please.

So, we obviously don't separately report MMA's results, but it's an important part of our business in the United States, and it continues to perform exceptionally well. We couldn't be more pleased, as I mentioned earlier. And as I also said, I think we're just getting started, right? So, and what I would also say is that the broader Marsh has learned a great deal from MMA about what it takes to win in the middle market. And Martin and the team apply those lessons as we expand in the middle market all over the world and where possible even deploy inorganic investment like we did in in the case of Honan in Australia. But our business at MMA also benefits from being part of Marsh. They're excellent at really mining Marsh for content and capability that can enable them to show up with scale in local markets in a way that really distinguishes themselves from others. So, as I mentioned earlier, we've been methodically building out MMA over the course of the last 12 years piece by piece and A+ asset by A+ asset. And so, we couldn't be more excited, and we think there's a long road ahead of us. Do you have a follow-up, Bob?

Okay. Thank you, Andrew. Next question, please.

No, but Mark, maybe you could just talk generally about our approach.

Yes, thanks, Mike, for that question. One of the things that I think makes us a better business is we're working better together than we ever have, right? And we have shared with you where we are on the expense side of things, but we're showing up together in front of clients and prospects. As I mentioned earlier, the strength of our individual business propositions will continue to drive the growth of our business overall. But more and more, we can show up in a very, very unique way. And so, we made good progress during 2023. We've certainly learned a great deal. We've done some testing, and we'll continue to refine that. But we have a number of global growth opportunities where we're showing up in front of clients and prospects together. And what we really did was create a framework for our folks in the field. As you'll recall, we appointed Marsh McLennan leaders in each of the regions. And so, a big part of their day is making sure that we're bringing our collective capabilities to market at a local level where it makes sense. So, we continue to be excited about what that'll mean to future growth.

Thanks, Andrew, and I want to thank you all for joining us on the call this morning. In closing, I want to thank our colleagues for their hard work and dedication. I also want to thank our clients for their continued support. Thank you all very much, and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.