John Donahoe
NIKE, Inc. (NKE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Tom, I'll take that. Let me just saw right up front, our marketplace strategy remains the same as it's been over the last several years. And this is simply a continued evolution of the very same marketplace strategy. And I'll remind you that our marketplace strategy is driven by the consumer. I mean, at the end of the day, we start with the consumer, and consumers in this day and age want to get what they want, when they want it, how they want it.

Consumers want digital and physical access. They shop across both channels, they want a mono-brand and multi-brand. They use different shopping occasions to use different channels. Consumers expect us to know who they are, and consumers have said to us they want a consistent and seamless experience. And so that is what has driven our marketplace strategy. And as you know, it starts with digital or a direct connection with the consumer.

Our digital apps, our mobile apps are unmatched in the industry, and that's our fastest-growing channel that will continue to be our fastest-growing channel because we directly connect with the consumer digitally. We augment that with owned retail, where we are building out stores, NIKE stores in segments that are currently underserved by our wholesale partners, we would say women's is one of those cases in Jordan being another.

So, we're selectively opening new doors. And then multi-brand wholesale partners play a really important role. And as I said in my remarks, there's different segments. So, we spent a lot of focus and attention, and we've talked a lot over the last couple of years about the larger multi-brand partners like DICK's and JD and Foot Locker and Sports Direct. We've talked some around neighborhood doors where we authenticate, that's such an important role. And then we have accounts that help us serve distinct segments of consumers or price points. And so what we've done over the past quarter is simply an extension of that.

Our Direct business will continue to grow the fastest, but we'll continue to expand our marketplace strategy to enable access to as many consumers as possible and drive growth.

Thanks, Matt. And Matt Friend, I'll take the first. So Matt Boss, we see the same structural tailwinds you just described. We are blessed with structural tailwinds around an expanding definition of sport, particularly around health and wellness and a related structural tailwind around this movement toward athleisure. And our marketplace strategy is simply geared to expand, leverage our competitive advantages to not only gain share, but also grow the market by being where consumers are. And again, as I said a minute ago, to give them when they want, how they want it.

Two examples come to mind. One is just digital. I cannot tell you how important it is, our mobile apps. In fact, in Q4, our four mobile apps, SNKRS, the NIKE Mobile App, NTC and NRC had over 500 million visitors within the quarter, and that's just in the U.S. or North America, APLA, and EMEA, doesn’t even count in China. So, there's no one else in the industry that has anything close to that. And what that means is, we are in – we're in the privileged position of being in consumers' pockets and on their home screens of their phones. That's cherish real estate.

So, our mobile apps give us a huge advantage because it creates shopping occasions when they're browsing on SNKRS. It creates shopping occasions when they're working out. It connects us to consumers globally and will help us both grow the market and gain share. A second example will be around health and wellness in women's, and we talked in my remarks about the NIKE Well Collective. And what this really is, is, [Amy Montagne] [ph] is leading our women's team and just doing a fabulous job. Amy and her team have sharp consumer insight around through the eyes of the women consumer, the female consumer, this intersection of sport, wellness, community and it's all infused with style.

The distinction of style and performance for women is a much more nuanced and integrated thing. And so, NIKE Well Collective is both a branding and a way that our voice to her and our storytelling to her will come to life, but also our retail doors. And we have been opening Nike Live Doors, as you know. We'll rebrand those NIKE Well Collective.

I will tell you the NIKE Live doors, which are largely focused on women consumers, are performing very strongly around women's performance product, around women's fitness, leggings and bras, around lifestyle as well. And so in that way, we're expanding our access to women consumers. And so, we'll continue in our marketplace strategy. It really reiterates what I said a minute ago of being aggressive to be where the consumer is, so that we're there when they want us, where they want us and how they want us.

Sure. Well, Jim, I would say, in general, the marketplace remains highly promotional. And when we step back and look at the actions that we took last year, we're very happy with where we finished the year. In fact, our inventory levels are ahead of our plan and ahead of the competition. We saw total marketplace inventory units down versus the prior year. And when we look at NIKE-owned inventory in particular, we feel incredibly good about where we are and the plans that we have going into the first half of next year.

The large majority of our strategic partners have also done a beautiful job moving through the inventory and balancing the trade-offs of investing in consumer connections, elevating the retail environment, and moving through inventory. And so, we feel great about where we are, but we recognize that next year, the environment is going to continue to be promotional and that even puts pressure on our wholesale partners in terms of how they think about managing through the first half of the year.

And so, we believe that the right focus and attention for NIKE is to focus on recovering a higher level of full price growth in fiscal year 2024, profitable growth, full price growth. The mid-single-digit guide does reflect four points, as I mentioned, of non-comp impacts, which are partially wholesale shipment timing because you recall last year, there was a lot of late supply from 2022 that came into 2023, but also a little bit of extra liquidation as we were more aggressive in moving inventory both through our own channels and our partner channels. But when I look at our growth plan for next year, adjusting for the comp headwind and look at the profitability recovery that we see on the margin – gross margin and EBIT line, I feel like it's a great plan and sets us up well for long-term growth and profitability.

Yes. Cristina, probably the highlight of the last 90 days for me was getting back to China for the first time post-pandemic. And I will tell you, it just – it was such a palpable reminder, a, what a strong team we have there. And I just want to again call out our China team who has just done a spectacular job over challenge after challenge after challenge over the last three or four years. But what's also clear is the consumers back in China and NIKE and Jordan brand are strong.

So, you heard our Q4 growth was 25%. We had a strong 6/18, and that's across different categories, performance and lifestyle men's, women's, kids, really strong performance in running and basketball wholesale fitness. But what was really clear is that the NIKE formula of the best innovation combined with great local storytelling, combined with the marketplace is connecting with Chinese consumers, particularly Gen Z. And so, the Gen Z consumer in China cares about innovation, and they're doing a great job of taking our global innovations and hyper-localizing them as well a great job of local storytelling.

When I was there, we saw – Craig Williams and I were there together, we saw that live streaming studio where we do a lot of live streaming in a way that really connects with Gen Z. Social shopping is taking off in China in a bigger way than other places, and we're at the front edge of that. And then as you know, we have 6,000 mono-brand doors that provide such an advantage.

I will tell you being in several of those doors in Shanghai and Beijing, what was – it was right when the Motiva was launched. And the far majority of those 6,000 doors, the first floor is dedicated to women's. And you walk in, it is some of the best merchandising of a great innovation like Motiva connected to her, pulling her off the street and into the doors. And so, we'll continue to invest in China. Our China for China strategy, I think, is going very, very well.

And looking ahead, we're optimistic about NIKE's Brand, Jordan's Brand, the momentum we have as well, we think it's a structural tailwinds in the region make us optimistic over the long-term. Gen Z is the most active generation. There's a growing middle class, increased focus on health and wellness. So, a very energizing visit and makes us very confident about our brands and our business in China.

And Matt, John, I'll just build on one of the things that Matt says, the key to the whole thing is having the best innovation in the industry. That's what brings people to our Direct channels that brings people to our Digital channels. And the momentum Heidi has had her team together offsite earlier this week and seeing the design, product creation, men's, women's, kids, storytelling and brand teams, really accelerating the pace of innovation, accelerating our ability to connect with the consumer is ultimately what's going to fuel not only our top line, but also our bottom line. And so, the feeling of momentum and confidence is really growing as we move into this more streamlined structure.