Jon Moeller
Procter & Gamble (PG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I would just offer a couple thoughts, Bryan, in addition to what Andre said. Pricing isn’t going away in the absolute. It is linked to innovation and we have a very strong innovation pipeline, as Andre partially described. If you look back historically, pricing has been a positive contributor to our top line growth for something like 48 out of 51 of the last quarters, and again as we strengthen our innovation program even further, that will provide opportunities to continue to benefit from modest pricing.

The second thing just to be aware of, and Andre mentioned it, when you have a strong innovation program, it compels consumers to try even better performing products, which typically involves a mix benefit, so you’re going to have some amount of pricing going forward, you’re going to have some amount of mix, which you saw for instance in the last quarter. Volume, the trend is very encouraging, as Andre said, both on a global aggregate basis - two quarters ago, volume was minus-6, last quarter minus-3, this quarter minus-1, and as Andre said, we’ve fully turned the corner and are growing volume at very healthy levels in our largest market.

We also have--we will benefit from capacity investments that we’re making currently. We have several categories in the U.S., for example, where we’re currently on allocation on certain forms and freeing up that capacity to fully serve demand, so both retailers and consumers will help as well. Those are just some additional points to consider as you think about this question.

Yes, just emphasizing the point of ROI-based decision making. I don’t--when we’re discussing an opportunity in the market, whether that’s in advertising, product supply, building capability, I don’t think I’ve ever asked the question, where are we versus our guidance range in terms of the bottom line? That’s just not how we think about things. We’ve reflected a significant amount of investment that we’re very excited about within the guidance range, and we’ll continue looking for opportunities to build return, but that will be the focus.

Only one point to add to that - I agree with everything Andre just said. As you’re looking to see a correlation, Steve, between increased marketing investment in Q4 and market share, as I know you know, it’s not instantaneous. If you just think about purchase cycles as one of the dynamics, we have categories where the purchase cycle is once every six months or once every year even, and so we look at it obviously over longer periods of time.

They are very excited about this opportunity. As I meet with our retail partner CEOs and key managers in those accounts, they’re very anxious to work together on this. A very important emphasis point is that this is sometimes looked at primarily through a bottom line cost saving efficiency lens. That’s now we’re approaching this, though that will be a benefit. We’re really focusing on the opportunity, as Andre said, with a more powerful shelf to grow categories faster, and therefore it’s a top line opportunity for us and our retail partners. We believe that if we do this well, what would normally be considered as some shelf distribution risk through a smaller line up, we can actually convey that into a stronger overall shelf.

So it’s multi-faceted, as Andre said, it’s early days working through this, and it will be a category by category, account by account effort, but I think it holds significant opportunity.

This is--you asked the question, Lauren, whether this was incremental to the previously communicated productivity numbers. This is part of that and part of how we deliver that, and again has top line benefit as well.

China, as Andre said in our prepared remarks, continues to recover, not at a significantly rapid pace but steadily, so our business in that country was up 4% in the last quarter and that’s a big improvement from where it was in the first half of the year. There are--you know, there continue to be consumer confidence challenges driven by many factors in China, but again improving month on month.

There are some fundamental underlying economic challenges, if you look for example at the employment rates of people in their 20s. It’s very low right now--sorry, the unemployment rate is high, the employment rate is low, unemployment of as much as 20%, so there’s a combination of things, but as always, I hold out great hope for China and our business in it. As I said, we’re beginning to recover nicely as we speak.

On the supply chain, several things happened as we rebalanced supply and demand. One is, and we’ve talked about this before, we’re able to focus more energy and effort, refocus more energy and effort on productivity, so that’s a significant benefit and that’s included in our assumptions on the guidance. It also makes it easier to get line time to innovate. We have a very strong innovation program that we’re executing currently and obviously expect--as part of our model, we expect to do that going forward.

Our track record--to the point of how do you get things on shelf, our track record speaks for itself, so one of the innovations that Andre was talking about earlier, if you just look at hand dishwashing in the United States and Europe, Down Power Wash and Dawn easy squeeze bottle, those two innovations together drove 17% growth in that business last year, up 1.5 share points in the U.S., up, I think the number is 1.1 share points in Europe, and we’re just getting started with the potential there. But that kind of track record behind innovation makes us a very compelling partner to our retail partners, and that specific example, as you would expect with those kind of numbers, had a significant impact on market growth, which is also of primary importance for them. They don’t really, as you know, don’t really care or aren’t benefited by our share growth unless it is driven by market growth which they benefit from.

I think we’re in good shape. When we have great ideas, when we can increase consumer and shopper delight, we’ll be fully present.

Thanks Robert. It’s getting harder and harder to distinguish between ecommerce and traditional commerce, if you will, even in our conversations with our retail partners. Most of the large brick and mortar retailers are emphasizing the development of ecommerce in different forms themselves and have had significant growth behind those efforts. Honestly, I have not been in a conversation that is zero sum in nature or that is any way combative in nature, more the conversation is how can we work together to fully satisfy our shoppers, many of whom prefer an ecommerce experience.

From a pure business standpoint, we aim to be indifferent between channels. We want to have an equally attractive margin, which we generally do, at least in aggregate, and we want a share profile in the different channels that allows us to be indifferent and allows us to support consumers and shoppers in whatever their choice is, wherever they want to go. That’s always work to do, but we stand today in a very good place.

Last comment I’d make is just when you think about the growth of ecommerce, in the year that we just completed, as Andre said, it was 7%. That’s the same rate of growth for the total business, so there’s not a tipping exercise that’s going on here. It’s really working to raise all boats.

As relates to opening price points, that’s a very fair question and something that we’re always evaluating, as you would expect. But there are several tools that we have available to us to ensure that we’re providing good value to consumers for whom price becomes a challenge. We have pack size, ensuring that we have pack sizes that are accommodated within their cash outlay capacity. Making sure that we have offerings that are right for the channels that consumers typically go to when they come under economic pressure. Ensuring that whether it’s on the package, whether it’s on the shelf, whether it’s in advertising, we’re clearly communicating the value that those offerings provide, and I think you’ll see us going to the utilization of those tools much more frequently to fully delight and satisfy that shopper than we will simply price.

I like generally the concept of retailer media managed in just the way that Andre described, because I just generally believe that the majority of brand choice is made in a retail environment. If we can bring that all together, it offers significant opportunity. I think less brand choice is made sitting on a couch or even driving in a car on the way to a retail establishment. The same is true for online.

We’re very carefully evaluating this opportunity, but it will be done in a context that Andre described.

As you know, we want to be present in daily use categories where performance drives brand choice, so we love SK-II in that context and it’s performed very well over the years. But as you indicated, the more recent volatility is due to channel dynamics and COVID dynamics, all of which are beginning to turn more favorable. That will take a little bit of time, but this is a brand that we like.

We have said that from a portfolio standpoint, there are two categories that we’re most interested in from an acquisition standpoint, albeit in a very disciplined way, and those are the same two categories where we’ve been making smaller acquisitions. Those two categories are personal healthcare and skin care.

I want to thank everybody for your time this morning. We appreciate it. We know this is a busy morning for you. We’ll let you get onto other things. I just want to provide one last recognition of the team here at P&G who is working hard to serve consumers, customers, each other, society, and of course our share owners.

Thank you for your interest.