Jonas Prising
ManpowerGroup Inc. (MAN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, if we see that the economy improves and what will drive the biggest difference to our business is that employer confidence broadly improves, that will clearly mean that we could reach then the inflection points and see an upturn in demand for our services across all of our brands. And I think that is, of course, will be welcome use when it happens, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, but not seeing that inflection point yet, but a soft landing in the US would of course be very welcome.

Good morning, Jeff. Yes, as you might have seen this morning, the economic trends in Europe are noticeably weaker and they just declared across the Eurozone a no growth environment for Q4. But some of the reasons behind that lack of economic growth are higher energy costs, less government stimulus. But I think what is clear from speaking to clients in Europe is they consider the environment tough, the outlook uncertain, but the headwinds manageable. So they still have a constructive outlook as they look into 2024. And they are clearly telling us, we're not seeing the upturn yet, but we expect things to improve as the economy improves. If you look at the distribution of where the economic pain is the greatest, I think it's clear that Northern Europe and Germany in particular, face as major economic headwinds and other parts of Northern Europe as well. Netherlands and Scandinavia, and we can see that reflected in our business. And then we have Southern Europe with France, getting a little bit softer, but Italy and Spain actually still being relatively strong from an economic growth perspective. So all of this to say Europe is lagging the US in terms of economic growth, which could also mean that as we think about a softer landing, the US could come back sooner and quicker than Europe potentially.

So the likelihood of a major step down today, as we look out and we talk to the companies that we serve, appears to be more focused on black swan like events related to geopolitical events that are very hard to predict. Other than that, their outlook is constructed into a recovering economy, so they believe it will, they just don't know when.

Thank you. Yes, sure. I'd be happy to talk to that. So yes, we did come in at the higher end of our GP margin range, which was great. The way I would explain that, and you saw the year-over-year bridge on the margin, but generally as we looked at the guide, France came in a bit better. We did say that we had a bit of a cautious guide on France in the fourth quarter. So France came in a bit better, and those higher levels of activity at higher margin year-over-year in France came through, which helped the staffing margin a bit. And I'd say, PERM came in very close to what we were expecting. So what you're starting to see, and I know you inquired on this last quarter, is did PERM peak in previous quarters at that minus 70 basis points year-over-year? You look in Q4, you see us go to minus 30. And to your question on Q1 expectations, we continue to see that anniversary impact on PERM having a lesser impact year-over-year on the GP margin trend. So we would expect that trend to continue. It will be a less year-over-year decline into the first quarter. And as you look at the gross profit margin for Q1, at that 17.3 at the midpoint. Really, that reflects continued stable staffing margins, as I mentioned, with a little pressure in Northern Europe on some utilization issues, but I would say that's isolated.

And PERM continues at stable activity levels as we talked about. And I think that the other item with Q1 is, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, it is typically our smallest quarter, and they get hit by some seasonal trends at all that impact the margin a bit as well when you look sequentially from Q4 into Q1. So I'd say that's -- those are the main considerations as you think about GP margin.

So I'll take the first question, part of your question, Josh, and then have Jack jump in on the second part. So the seasonal ramp that we expect to see in the beginning of the year is a little bit slower than you would normally expect, which is not surprising given the economic headwinds that we're seeing across Europe and the US and Canada specifically. So it is incorporated in our guide and it's a little bit slower, of course, we're early in the quarter, so this may all change, but that's what we're seeing right now.

Yes, Mark, thanks for that. PERM is currently at 15.3%. And I know you inquired on this last quarter as well. It has stepped down a little bit. Last quarter it was about 16.5%. And I think that just reflects the continued stabilization. I think year-over-year, the rate in PERM decline year-over-year was about the same. And we're just seeing that kind of work its way in. So, I think that reflects, and I think we commented a little bit on this last quarter as well. I think that reflects a range that's in line with where we were pre-pandemic. So, PERM has stabilized quite a bit and is more of a typical mix of our GP on an overall basis.

And Mark, to talk a bit about the efficiencies, a good starting point is probably DDI. So our diversification strategy is all about improving our margin mix within and between our brands so that we move into higher margin businesses. And I think we've made some excellent progress. And as we noted in our prepared remarks, our margin, our GP margin has been resilient. And that's really great to see. Some of that comes, of course, from an improved business mix within our brands as well as between our brands. The digitization efforts that we've been working on almost for four years now have really established us at the forefront of our industry because we're deploying common global platforms for front and back office and web properties.

And we are implementing now the last big operations and as I mentioned in the prepared remarks by the end of this year, substantially all of our revenues will run through the same web and front office platforms. And that's what we're really excited about because we think that there are clearly efficiencies and productivity initiatives that we can now drive not only in each country but across geographies and implemented at speed and scale in a way we were never able to do before. But it also means that we can improve recruiter productivity and drive fill rates up in a way as we transfer best practices and we implement new tools to support our recruiters become even more successful and productive at a scale and speed that we've never been able to do before.

But as I also mentioned in my prepared remarks, one of the things that I've learned as it relates to AI in general and Generative AI in particular is that to take advantage of these new technologies which look immensely promising in so many areas, the requirement to be able to take advantage of those is to have a modern technology infrastructure. And of course that's exactly what we have been building for a number of years. So it's too early to talk about the impact of large language models and Generative AI now but the promise they hold we think is immensely exciting and we feel very good about how we are positioned to take advantage of those improvements as they come to market because we have a global platform where we can deploy them across all of our global organization at the same time. And that is exactly what we're working on as we look ahead into the future.

Well, I think it depends on which country you're in, Mark. But if I step back and you think about what happened during and after the pandemic, we came out of the pandemic in ‘21 with tremendous supply chain shortages and companies ordering anything and all the products and services they could get in a pipeline that they largely started to start consuming and see a return to normal supply chain functioning sometime end of ‘22 and all the way through ‘23, they've been working off the inventories that they've been getting and as they look ahead, they are constructed on the outlook because they note that the uncertainty exists primarily due to geopolitical events, but the economic news are actually quite encouraging.

Labor markets remain strong. Inflation is coming down. Energy prices have stabilized and their supply chain issues have normalized post pandemic. So from an economic perspective, as you look out, many of the European business leaders we spoke with were quite upbeat in terms of their outlook for 2024. They note that geopolitical uncertainties could impact that, but that's nothing they control. So within the things they control, they felt constructive about ‘24, but they know we don't know when it's going to be improving. We don't know when interest rates are going to come down, but overall they are probably very much thinking that this is an environment that is tough, challenging headwinds in a number of industries, but they can see the elements of a recovery are there. And until then they're waiting, they're holding, but they are getting ready for the recovery. That's my sense.

Kartik, what we have seen is an increased demand for the services of Right Management. But I think we need to put that within the context of what we're seeing employers doing overall. So while they are -- some are trimming their workforces, most employers are still holding on to their workforce. And any reduction in workforce for now has been really mostly felt by our industry and other indicators of labor market flexibility, it doesn't touch their specific workforce. Clearly, you've seen the tech company, the large enterprise tech companies do this early into ‘23 and resize their workforce. And you now have other organizations that are also trimming their workforces for various reasons.

But as we look into the first quarter, what we're estimating is that we'll continue to seek good demand for Right Management resources, but not an accelerated demand for those offerings. And that would indicate that the employer attitude is still by and large, hold on to our workforce and wait for the economic conditions to come back, employer confidence to increase as opposed to preparing for larger scale layoffs that would indicate a much stronger growth in Right Management. So that's how we would think about it.

Well, Manav, the perfect environments for us are global demand for our services and solutions is booming, but that is not the case for our industry in this moment, at least. But I would say when we think about the demand for our services, this is an economic cycle that is increasingly looking similar to many other cycles that we have seen. As we discussed in our last quarter earnings call, from what we're seeing, whilst our industry is absorbing a lessening of demand, taking within a historical context, this is still within the realms of a softer economy, whether it's a soft landing or a lighter recession that's for others to say. But there, the stabilization of PERM recruitment across a number of quarters now in the context of a strong labor market means that companies are still hiring people. They are just being much more deliberate, much more cautious, and much more precise in what kind of talent they're bringing in. And I'd say the same thing applies for temporary staffing. Yes, we've seen a drop in demand, in particular, from an enterprise client perspective and in certain sectors, but overall, both geographically in LATAM and in Asia Pacific, as well as in other parts of Europe, you can see that there is still demand for temporary staffing and our Experis consultants with the IT skills and specializations that they have. So what we believe is going to be an important turning point is when employers caution moves into employer confidence in an improved outlook.

And as we've seen in past recoveries, the time when employers are more confident but not fully confident in the recovery is when we see a big move upwards in demand for our services and solutions across our brands. Because a lot of companies, of course, are reducing their own hiring, their talent acquisitions, teams are either gone or are reduced. And that means they need additional capacity to ramp up the workforce they need to be able to compete and to prepare to execute and continue their business strategy. And that's, I think, where we are. Right now, employers are more cautious. They think it's manageable and you can see that in our overall numbers. But when they get more confident and they feel the turning point is here, that's when we will see it in our business, both in the US as well as in Europe.

Toby, I think what we're hearing is that the teams, since there's not a lot of hiring going on in many sectors, those individuals have been reallocated. And as you look at two other functions and or have left and are doing different things. So in our conversations, as it relates to, for instance, opportunities within our RPO, many of our customers are getting ready for an upturn or asking us to prepare. They are not ready to pull the trigger yet, but they are clearly thinking about the recovery and what they need to be doing when they are confident that the market is coming back for their product and services.

So we really expect this to play out more or less the same way that we've seen other returns and bounce back as far as the industry is concerned, both here in the US and across the world, frankly.

Thanks for bringing that up, Trevor. It's the 37th consecutive quarter of growth in Japan and I think Japan is a really interesting example of a country that is struggling demographically and has a shortage of labor, but we've managed to position ourselves both from a Manpower and Experis perspective as really the experts in finding and creating talent at scale. And that's really been one of the key factors of how we've made progress in Japan is of course excellent recruitment and delivery capabilities, but each of our brands also has a very strong reskilling, end-up-skilling arm of that brand.

So we are generating a lot of talent with marketable skills and scale in Japan, and that is really a main factor of the progress that we've seen. We've also moved into some interesting healthcare areas, elder care, as well as childcare in Japan. Given the aging population, we've seen that as a very good opportunity and that's been an investment that we've made over a number of years and that is starting to take hold and we think that will continue to be an important part of our business. So the team in Japan has done an excellent job really finding the opportunities that exist in a market where you have an aging demographic, a shrinking workforce and being seen as a solutions provider by not only finding great talent but creating talent at scale.

And that's exactly what we intend to do as we see similar trends play out both in Europe and in the US through our experienced academy as well as our Manpower MyPath programs making sure that we are known as the company that has great ability to find but also to create the needed talent for our clients which helps us deliver the best talent in the market in time and at speed.

Overall, Heather, I see it's still a bit early. There have been well publicized circumstances around some of the automotive industry and that is well known and so that may have an impact but will and primarily in that case from our perspective Germany but other than that I think it's a little bit early still, Heather.

Thanks everyone. That brings us to the end of our earnings call for the fourth quarter. We look forward to speaking with all of you again as we report our first quarter results sometime in May. Until then, thanks everyone.