Joseph Dominguez
Constellation Energy Corporation (CEG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Steve, we could hear you. Great. Good morning to you.

I think so, Steve. I think it will represent itself both as an improvement in base and enhance because when you think about how the PTC pricing elbow works, right, wherever -- assuming your overall price is below that elbow, there's extrinsic value above the elbow. It's effectively the possibility that prices will be higher than the elbow come the time of the delivery year. So whenever you're getting -- whenever you have a contract value that's in that range, if you're adding to it, for example, PJM capacity payments, if those end up being higher, even if the plant right now is residing in the PTC level, the closer it gets to that elbow, the higher the value of the extrinsic floor, and that gives you enhanced earnings. It also gives you what Dan has talked about the potential for higher margins and better portfolio opportunities as you handle the contracts. But effectively, what we're thinking is the contracts will be well above the PTC levels, right, to reflect the value of the attributes. In terms of how we're seeing the opportunities, let me just go from kind of maybe worse the best. I think hydrogen right now, we've stayed in the game on the hydrogen hub in Illinois because DOE has asked us to, and they're covering the cost, pending the outcome of the final rules. If we don't get the right final rule, we'll head into litigation, but we'll suspend further capital deployment or opportunities in hydrogen until we get an outcome from the courts. In terms of 24/7, we're continuing to see uptake from our customers on those opportunities. They are some of the same customers that appear to us in the data economy world, right? So Microsoft shows up as the first pioneering 24/7 customer. It's also a potential customer empowering the data economy and growth in that economy. And so I think of those two things as kind of similar. There will be customers that obviously, are pursuing sustainability solutions that aren't in the data center economy like ComEd and others. But I think probably materially the biggest piece of this, at least as we see it right now, is going to be in the data economy and selling 24/7 solutions to those companies that are in the data center business or intending to grow in the data center business and trying to do that across multiple jurisdictions so that we could get a template agreement in one place where we could agree on pricing and then quickly move to other opportunities with that same customer in other parts. I think when you think about who we are, the spread of our assets, we're probably the only company that can do this at scale, that has the megawatts available, and do it with geographic diversity that these clients seem to like. In terms of timing, Steve, we're working on all of these issues. There's a huge team at Constellation that is involved in these discussions and sorting them out. They're big deals so -- and they take a long time to materialize. And what I don't want to get into in these calls is predicting when the outcome of those deal discussions will occur. But they want speed to the market and we want speed in terms of getting this started. So I think the incentives are aligned.

And David I just quick to supplement Dan's point. I think that the opportunities we're talking about don't come necessarily with more O&M. Some of the behind-the-meter opportunities might, but that will be factored into the contract pricing. But simply selling attributes doesn't add a bit of O&M to our Company. So its cash conversion is quite large.

Yeah. Look, I think we talked about the two parts of our business, the commercial business and the nuclear asset base. I think it's fair to say that M&A activity would be focused on both of those things. And in the case of nuclear, we've kind of long said that young dual unit sites are our type around here. So those -- that's sort of -- anything that's in that -- fits that description will be something we'll be interested in.

But look, it's all at the right price, right? What you're seeing here in terms of the management presentation is that we like the future of this company. We like the future contracting opportunity. We like the future realization of the reliability benefit that we think we can. So stated quite simply, we think there's a lot of value that is still unrealized here. So as we look at different M&A opportunities, it's going to be judged against buyback in the sense of where is going to be the greatest impact or a return for our investors. And I'm not sure where that's going to be. We have a type of plant that we would be interested in buying. We have commercial businesses that we'd be interested in buying, but those things have to come at the right price. And if we've, I think, demonstrated anything very well over the first couple of years is we're going to be really disciplined in how we look at that.

Good morning, Angie.

Thank you, Angie.

Well, I think that gets into the question of operates. We've already announced some. We have others that we're looking at. We're looking at some other fairly material opportunities to increase the number of megawatts that we produce and then anything that would happen from an M&A perspective. We're not going to build more nuclear, so that's -- it's really how we optimize the existing fleet, which is already running at a pretty high capacity factor. We'll look at upgrades M&A opportunities and possibly some unique opportunities that we have to bring megawatts on. So that's -- I think this is a neighborhood we're going to be in for a while.

Well, again, it's been a longer-than-usual call. We had a lot to go through in terms of the evolving marketplace, Constellation strategy and the change in guidance that we're providing. Appreciate, again, all the positive feedback. We look forward to continuing to deliver on the promises that we made to you. So looking forward to the first quarter call. And with that, I'll end it and thank you again for your time and attention.