Juan Luciano
Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (ADM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Adam. How are you?

Yes. Thank you, Adam. So let's take each of the businesses in the portfolio. So when we think about Ag Services and Oilseeds, as you said, we had a spectacular performance over the last couple of years, taking full advantage of the opportunities in the market. But we forecasted in 2021 that margins were going to moderate, although they were going to stay higher than historical averages and we are seeing that. We see the moderation and we see even crush margins, 35 to 60, that we are forecasting are higher than average.

We have not stayed quiet waiting for the cycle to reverse. We have been adjusting our business model. You heard me saying about destination marketing, something we didn't have a few years ago, and we continue to grow that. That gives us extra margins and now we are forecasting that we continue to expand and we're going to grow those volumes 6% this year and that programs continue as we expand into new geographies in the Middle East and Southeast Asia.

When you think also about the Regen program, Regen AG program that we have with our customers, we are helping our CPG customers with their Scope 3 emissions and we are working together with the farmers and that program is the leading program in the industry and continues to grow. We are also doing everything in the value chain. We're looking at farmer direct. That's an ability for us to get efficiencies between us and the producer, the way we buy grain. So of course, we get an advantage with that as the producer as well. And we're planning to increase our volumes 10%, leveraging on the 200,000 farmer relationships we have around the world.

Of course, we have expanded capacity. We are expanding crush in Latin America. We are expanding crush in North America with Spiritwood. So I would say when you take that, plus our operational improvements, if you will, what we call the push for excellence, that was going to be the productivity and innovation agenda that were going to help us navigate through this.

We see 2024 still as a strong year for Ag Services and Oilseeds, it's going to be lower, but it's still going to be a strong year. Of course, the market has priced a lot of the extra capacity and the higher argentine crop into the crush margins. But we still see the ability of the market to absorb all that capacity with a strong mill growth and with a strong demand for oils.

So that on the Ag Services and Oilseeds side. On the Carb Solutions side, this business has been very stable over the last few years. It has had a very good 2022 and 2023. We are expecting a very good 2024, maybe slightly lower, but still very, very good. We had a good program for good contract renewals in 2024. We are happy with the margins. We have maintained margins for the most part, and we have gained some volumes, so volumes are strong.

The milling business has been going, had a record year last year, and it continues to drive very strong. I think both businesses have a little bit of a lower contribution from feed products, where margins have decreased a little bit, but BioSolutions, as Ismael mentioned, continues to grow, is growing beyond 15% per year. And all their decarbonization things that we're saying, we see more and more demand for everything that carb solutions can bring to the table in that area.

So we feel very good about that. Always the question mark in the year maybe is ethanol, but we're seeing right now, Adam, ethanol, the arbitrage to export from the U.S. is open to everywhere in the world. So it's just a matter of adjusting our capacity and the U.S. capacity to get more dehydrated ethanol, if you will, to be able to export, to adjust the humidity content, if you will.

So, I think we'd export well north of maybe 1.5, 1.6 billion gallons for this year. That should bode well for recovery of margins as we go into the year. And then you take nutrition. Nutrition has been a growth story for many years, and we certainly stumbled in 2023. I mentioned some of the reasons. Some of the reasons were, there was a big destocking after all the COVID and all the supply chain issues that the industry have, the industry stopped. And now we went through lower inflation and this talking about that. So we had to go that in beverages, which drives flavors, which is our biggest engine for growth, if you will.

Of course, we knew into the year that plant-based proteins, we have moderated our expectations for growth on that will still grow, but it's not going to be beyond 10%. So it's still going to be an attractive mid-single-digit growth, if you will. But we knew that, and then we had continued growth in continued good demand in pet and health and wellness and Animal Nutrition has been improving their P&L, doing a lot of self-help from the June P&L. It's been improving all the year. So unfortunately we get to the Q4 and we had several events in Q4. We have several one offs. We needed to take action on a couple of joint ventures and we addressed that. We needed to take a revaluation of an investment because of the end evaluation and we took that in the Q4.

And then we have some issues on our own performance that we needed to implement 1ADM as much as we prepared for that. We had some problems with some of the modules. It was a successful implementation, but some of the modules that were about shipping products gave us trouble during the last quarter of the year. So when you have all that combination, it gave us a very bad quarter.

We continue to see 2024 a year of growth or recovery, if you will, from the 2023 value. And from there, we should continue to march on our commitment to nutrition. Our ability to fulfill or to deliver a value proposition that resonates with customers continue to be evidenced by our growing pipeline, both in Animal and Human Nutrition, and our conversion rate we have benchmarked this is industry leading conversion rate. So we know we are winning. We need to adjust our own internal processes to make sure we deliver that. And we have done that heavily in the last -- second half of last year, and we have seen that during January and February that we are delivering much better than we did last year.

So with that, I still look confident at the numbers, at the overall number for the company that we gave you for 2025. As I said on the onset, we are ahead on what we scheduled. From an EPS perspective, we are above 10% in ROIC and we have purchased already more than the $5 billion of share that we have estimated for 2025. So it's never going to be a straight line from here to 2025. But we have a resilient portfolio that can help us see that those numbers for the overall portfolio are still possible, as it was in December 2021.

Sorry for the long answer. It's a large company.

Yes, thank you, Tom. So, as we said before, Ismael mentioning his remarks, we expect crush margins between $35 to $60 for this year, they were about $70 per ton, maybe last year. I think it's fair to say that the market has completely priced or baked all the bad news into the crush margins are we having today? So, I would say board crush has moved significantly lower in the last month as the market probably gained more confidence in the availability of products, especially soybean meal, particularly when you think about Argentina now having sites on a crop that may be 50 million tons. And the U.S. crush industry also has performed very well.

And the market continued to look forward to the second quarter of the year when they're going to have basically three offers for meal. That hasn't happened last year. So if you remember, last year, after Brazil finished in exporting, the U.S. became the only global, only gaming town, if you will. And that increased soybean meal values around the world, which makes soybean meal expensive, if you will for the Russian.

We see that in the U.S., we saw, at least for ADM, we saw five consecutive months of record exports for soybean meal in the U.S. And the U.S. industry saw similar situation. So now with the correction in this, we expect that soybean meal will gain back into the Russians. Of course, feeding with meat pros and not soybean milk is not the optimal way to feed. So now that soybean milk has corrected, we expect that to happen.

At the end of the day, Tom, the way I think about where crush is going to happen in the world is going to happen in both places where you have bean availability and where you have a domestic oil market. If you think of Brazil, Brazil is having B14 started in March. And that has helped with the margins of domestic oil for us in Brazil. And of course, you have a big crop, so you're going to have the bean availability and the domestic market. And then it will be the U.S. in which you have all the need of soybean oil to go into renewable green diesel and biodiesel and we have, of course, the bin availability. So we think that crush will favor those two places.

Yes. Andrew, first of all, my comment before to Tom's question was the overall number that we gave for the company for 2025 in 2021. We still believe that number is there. I think that that number was never going to be a destination for ADM, was a milestone, if you will. And as we are reviewing our five-year plan that we do every year we see us breaking through that number. So in that sense, I expect 2024 to be a down year versus 2023 hopefully 2025 will be a positive year versus 2024.

There is a cycle here that needs to happen, Andrew, that I described below, soybean mill will get cheaper. All the oil activities related to B-14 or RGD needs to grow. All that needs to happen and how long that adjustment takes, how long it takes for meal to be low enough to increase demand and for flat prices to be low enough to maybe make the farmer correct a little bit.

They are planting all that process we know historically happens, when exactly it's going to happen. Does it happen in a calendar year? Doesn't happen in six months. Does it happen in a year is hard to say. But we continue to build a company that has more optionality, that's more resilience for the future. So as the cycle moderates, we continue to have more ability to bring more to the P&L. So we think with that, I'm optimistic about 2025 being better than 2024.

Good morning, Ben.

Yes, good question, Ben. Let me give you the puts and takes, if you will, on nutrition as we look at 2024. So as Ismael said in his remarks, about half of the headwinds that we faced last year were market. That means that half of them were in the other two buckets, the non-recurring events, if you will, and those by nature we hope that we're not going to have going forward. And I think Ismael qualified them about $60 million something give or take. And then the other ones were like some of the demand fulfillment issues that I explained how we have worked aggressively to correct.

And we have seen good indication of that over the first two months of this year. So I would say those are the positive that we don't expect all that to happen again in 2024. You put on top of that a single digit revenue growth, mid-single digit revenue growth because of the pipeline that we have and the conversion of that pipeline.

And that tends to happen every year. Then, as you described, we have to have to face a correction of texturizing prices that were exceptionally high last year. We're not going to have that. So that will be part of the negative side, if you will. And certainly, as we go through the year, we still need to bring Decatur East plant back into operations, and that will have a tail of a cost. So I would say the year will be driven by a strong recovery in Animal Nutrition, in flavors, and hopefully pet with some tailwinds in the specialty ingredients. That's how we see.

Yes, Ben, I'm glad you're highlighting carb solution. They had a spectacular year. They deserve recognition and they've done a fantastic job of transforming their business into a very resilient and stable business. The assets let me take it by pieces. The milling business. Milling is an old business that has some old assets. And over the last few years, we have been doing -- the team has been doing a terrific job of shutting down some assets and consolidating those in new facilities like Mendota that we launched last year.

That is the best and the newest wheat milling plant in the world. So we are happy with the way they have done that. They continue to do so. So that business is in good shape. When we look at the wet mills, we continue to invest in part of the wet mills. Unlikely that we're going to build a new wet mill, as you can understand, but that business continue to be reinvested in.

It's a business that is a large business has a large asset footprint. And at the moment there is a lot of capital being associated with the path to decarbonize all these assets. So as you heard, we have a lot of efforts in trying to get pipelines to try to monetize some of our CO2 that come from the biogenic CO2 that come from the ethanol plants.

So and I would say we have expanded Marshall because BioSolutions is growing at north of 15% per year. So we needed capacity. So the Marshall expansion is about 50% expansion to the final starch capacity that we have there. And that will help a lot with that. I would say the year is exciting as it is developing. It has solid margins.

It has so far solid volumes. It had a little bit of a rough January because of the bad weather. We have ice in the plants and freezing weather. But February, March, things look good. And we think that that business has the opportunity to get some tailwinds from lower energy cost and maybe chemicals cost as the year go by. And that's a big energy hog, that business. So that could be an advantage and a tailwind coming later in the year.

Yes. Thank you, Manav, for the question. Listen, I think the path is clear for RGD, that RGD will need vegetable oils. When you think about how Europe is doing, Europe not having a raw crop for that, Europe needs cooking oil, waste oils, and they will capture that. The U.S. will have to be fed with soybean oil, canola oil. And we see that commitment to be firm over the years. All these capacities being built, it cannot be filled with anything else. So we feel that is a strong trend ahead of us.

Yes, Steven, listen, let me give you my thinking on that and the way we approach these things. So we always look, every time we do our five year plan, we take a look at those units that whether they are not returning, given our return expectations to date, we're not forecasting it to do it in the medium term. And those are the ones that we tend to take action.

So we took action with a couple of joint ventures, as I mentioned, and then we look at every unit that is underperforming. What we do first is we try to bring them to performance. So we make sure that if there are some things that are self-inflicted, if you will, we correct those things. Once we correct those things, and then we have visibility to what could happen over the next two or three years, then we decide as a part of portfolio whether they belong in nutrition or they belong in another part of ADM, or they belong outside ADM. So that's a regular process. We done, we done it in the past with fertilizers, Latin America, we've done it in the past. We divested Bolivia. We divested cocoa and chocolate.

So we've done this, and now we've done it with a couple of joint ventures. We've done it also. Ismael has done it in his previous job as an Animal Nutrition leader with some of the lines in Animal Nutrition that we cut, like 20 lines around the world. So sometimes we have exited countries. So it's a regular process that at times, maybe when you have a stumble like we had in nutrition, you look a little bit deeper, because now, all of a sudden, you have more businesses at lower performance. So we really want to see, is it worth investing in some of those? So we're in that process. So, nothing to announce today, but we continue to look at that very deeply.

Yes. Thank you, Dushyant. Well, all useful biofuel production is, as I said, is expected to grow in Brazil. We're going to go to B14, so there are many countries that are increasing their mandates, whether it's Indonesia and all that. When you look at the overall balances around the world, you see plantations in Southeast Asia getting older, the trees getting older, so maybe less production of palm oil. So you're going to see biodiesel mandates increasing around the world and less competitive pressure, if you will, for palm oil.

So you're going to see the pressure on vegetable oil. So we think that that will continue to be a strong leg of the crash, biodiesel in particular. Biodiesel margins are better right now for us in Europe. They have moderated significantly in the U.S., and we expect them to be good, but not as good as they used to be in the U.S. So that will be a little bit of a headwind for us in 2024. But margins are better in Brazil and in Europe. Thank you.

