Kenny Wilson
Jabil Inc. (JBL) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Ruplu. Good morning, and thank you for the question. I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we're really intentional. We just came out of our annual review of our strategic planning, and I think you'll see in Mike's comments also that we're viewing post the Mobility divestiture that 70% directly of our business is going to be in the EVs, AI clouds, renewables and healthcare.

So, if you look at that, that's all areas of our business that we believe are accretive from a margin perspective. And then, if you just roll forward what we expect our growth to be in those areas, it really is a big chunk of that. Also, obviously, as you'd expect as the Mobility business moves out of the company, we're looking at right-sizing our footprint and just aligning with the new normal for our business.

So it really is part of what we've been planning to do. We've been very intentional on it. And then, it really is just a function of as business with higher margin, grows and becomes a bigger part of our portfolio, that's where we see we get to from a margin perspective. It's not a function of us going back and trying to renegotiate higher prices with our customers. It really is a function of us adding more value in key end markets, and that's where we end up.

So, we -- my other comment here would be, as you know, we are generally quite conservative. So, we wouldn't be talking to you about that if we didn't think there was a high degree of likelihood that we would achieve that.

Yeah, let me talk to that also. So, I think I said previously that the automotive business is hard and that being hard is good for us, and also you need to have a global footprint with consistent standard processes and capabilities and be able to launch products simultaneously in different geographies at the same time. There's not that many companies that can do that. And so that certainly helps us.

We've been on a journey in the automotive space for quite some time. Chad Morley and his team have been driving that. We identified pretty early that electrification was going to be a huge trend and so we doubled down on that. And, obviously, as you listened to Fred talking about ACES, we're looking at software-defined also now.

So, we've been thoughtfully focused on adding more of the key logos to our portfolio. And what we see is, as we add more logos or more companies that were involved in more and more programs -- and I think Mike has talked previously about how the business is like seven-year lifecycles, you've introduced them at different rates. So, what we see is going forward that the products that we're incubating now are going to be revenue and margin accretive in the next two or three, four, five years. So, we're feeling quite confident about our growth. Certainly, 20%, we think is probably reasonable.

From a competition perspective, we compete globally with really, really good companies. Competition makes us better. So, we are well aware and we're pretty paranoid about our capability and our competitors. So, I would say that we don't have any real surprises with our competitors in terms of their capability relative to ours. And we're pretty confident that what we could offer being a U.S. domicile but with wonderful capabilities in Asia, Europe, and North America, we think that that model is a winner for our customers and for Jabil. So, we're feeling quite confident about our automotive growth in the short, medium, and long term.

Hi, Steve, good morning. Yeah, so we were talking about that just this morning actually, and I think it's worth just reaffirming you on the cloud space. We really think the model we have is outstanding. So, it's asset-like, it's co-located with our customer. We also think that as our customers look to disaggregate a lot of the other parts of the data center that it plays to our strength, and I'll get to the optics in OSAT in a second.

So, what we find is that relationship drives effectively us sitting at the same side of the table, trying to solution how can we do things efficiently and how can we help them grow, because we view there's going to be significant growth, especially underpinned by AI. So, what we see is we've got to -- if you take our existing cloud business and what we see, that's been augmented by a real pivot to AI. From a consignment perspective, if you look at the GPUs, as Mike mentioned, that's going to be a pass through for us because we don't add any value there. But what you find in cloud is that really just the model we have is allowing us to really go deep with our customers and grow our business there.

In terms of you mentioned about OSAT, let me talk about that. As we discuss with our customers, and Fred mentioned in liquid cooling, the power requirements for what we're doing in data centers has become significant. Air cooling no longer works, so they're looking for a liquid-cooled capability. You need to use photonics extensively, again, because of the power requirements. So, sitting with our customers means that they ask us, "Can you help us in liquid cooling? Can you help us in photonics? Can you help us in pluggable transceivers, et cetera, et cetera?" So that helps us as we go into strategic planning to look at where should we be investing our dollars and capabilities to help our customers.

The good thing for us, Steve, is that as we go more vertical and end markets, it simplifies our customers' lives and it makes our solutions more robust and it effectively allows us to grow our business there. So that's kind of how we see things in the cloud. And hopefully that answers your question.

Yeah, hey, [Steven] (ph), it's a little bit of both in this instance.

Yeah, I mean just that, there are kind of some legacy EMS type kind of built to print type of models in some instances. And our view there is that where we can serve -- we're always looking to find where we can serve and add value. If our serve and add value becomes 100% built to print, then probably there's people that can do that cheaper than us and can do it -- and allowing us to add value for other customers where we can be vertical or where we can do -- just do more engineering services or whatever.

So, I mean, we're not walking away from customers. It's a discussion around, look, I'm not sure it's the right fit for ourselves and for our customers. So there's a little bit of that. And then some of it is just end market softness right now. We see some softness in that market as well as in the consumer space. So, we do expect that to recover.

I mean, we're not walking away from the Networking and Storage business, just to be clear. We also see that in that area of our business that the amount of enhanced or advanced networking that's required to support the AI data centers is significant also. So, we think, longer term, this business will be okay for us, but we're just seeing a little bit of softness in the short term, plus, some discussions with a couple of customers.

Hey, thanks for the question. So, Mark, yeah, so firstly, I mentioned in my prepared remarks about the Mobility and the Mobility team. And I'd just like to call out again our gratitude as an organization for the work that they've done, which has been outstanding. I also think it would be a remiss of me not to call -- we're right in the middle of the transition right now and the collaboration between our team and the BYD team is absolutely outstanding. So, we're really pleased about how that's going.

Yeah, in terms of the business, for sure, what we've been looking at here is -- and the way we try and focus our growth is, where can we add most value for our customer, and look at the world through the eyes of our customer. And that's why you'll see when we look at the end markets that we're focused on, we think it's end markets where the range of capabilities that we have in our company and the global presence that we have can really help our customers grow and develop.

So, yeah, we'll be focusing much more on automotive, healthcare, just the renewables that we've mentioned previously, so for sure -- and AI and cloud, for sure that's going to give us the opportunity to do that. From a use of capital perspective, it helps us here also. So yeah, certainly from a management bandwidth, it's going to free up some of our time to go double down in these strong secular growth areas.

Yeah, so at '24, it's roughly 20% to 25%, and we think that that's going to grow in the longer term and going to become a much bigger part of our cloud business.

I think it's going to be really dependent on the mix of the businesses. So, we are expanding the space there to allow us to do more cloud. Mike mentioned that we're up 20% year-over-year. And we don't see any slowdown in terms of the cloud rollout. So, I think it depends, but certainly for sure, we think that our volumes are going to grow, but it will grow in the AI space. So, probably our revenues would probably be relatively consistent at that level, I would think, in the next year or two.

Yeah, thanks for the question, David. So, yeah, we are really, really deep in this right now. I mentioned previously about the -- how effectively we're working together with BYDE. And that is really, really pleasing, especially for people that are going to go work in that organization and the leadership team is outstanding. Yeah, we've -- it's really detailed. We've spoken to all of the stakeholders. We think we've got a really good plan, detailed plan, and we're very, very confident that we'll close this in the timeline that we covered in our prepared remarks. We're actually focused on trying to close it as soon as possible, obviously. If we could do that in this calendar year, it would be wonderful. But yeah, with BYD's support in Asia and our support in North America, we think that we're very confident that it's going to be closed in the timeline that we mentioned.

Yeah. Hey, George, nice to talk to you. Yeah, so what we're seeing is, I think we're seeing some offset in markets right now. So, if you look at the consumer, for example, we call that Network and Storage, that's down. So, we're not losing market share there. But in the markets that we're focused on, like in automotive and healthcare, renewables, for sure, we're gaining share in those areas. So that is allowing us to offset some softness in consumer, for example, and still be able to grow -- normally grow our business. So you see, we are seeing sheer gains in those targeted areas.

Yeah, okay. So, let me just -- if this doesn't satisfy your question, just let me know, George. But -- so, we have a phenomenal capability and a really robust footprint in China. We leverage a lot of capabilities across the company from our footprint there. What we do see is that we see opportunities in China for China. We think that whether it's in EVs or multiple different end markets, we think our facilities are full and we're adding more demand in our China facilities. So, when we talk about regionalization, we're not -- it's not cannibalizing our footprint in China. And we think that the demand is going to increase for us there in the longer term, which is great because the teams and the people we have in China are absolutely outstanding.

But to answer your other question, yeah, we see -- look at reshoring in Europe and North America, it's a big part of what we're doing and what you see growth in our targeted end markets. The good thing about our company and our capability is that we have standard processes. We have a consistent culture, of course nuanced in different parts of the world. We have a standard unified ERP system. So, what it means is, it means our ability to take capabilities and products and move them around the world and build them in the same -- different geographies at the same time. I would argue that we're among the best in the world at that. So, we see -- our focus is on China to support China market and also for export, but also we see leveraging those capabilities in different parts of the world is something that's going to help us grow in the longer term.

So, I guess, in summary, the regionalization, as we call it, or reshoring, is -- that's a net positive for us. So, we're feeling pretty confident about that in the future.

You're Welcome.