Kevin Kwilinski
Berry Global Group, Inc. (BERY) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, George. Thank you. I look forward to meeting you in person soon. As I've been out to the facilities, and I've been to I think about eight facilities now. I always like to ask the facilities about productivity and how they measure their productivity, what their pipeline of opportunities looks like? And what I noticed very quickly at Berry is when I asked about productivity, what I was told about was the return on capital projects that were designed to drive cost improvement.

And to the credit of Berry, they have done incredibly well. This company is very rich with engineering talent, material science talent, and it's a credit to them what they've been able to drive. But what became clear to me was missing was a more fundamental process-oriented improvement opportunity using Lean tools, Six Sigma tools more thoroughly, and in a more comprehensive program that goes across all of the areas of the business.

And I think, from my history and these material-intensive converting businesses that type of program on its own has an ability to drive significant conversion cost-reduction. And that's what I have in mind with that comment.

Actually, the facilities I've visited so far have better cross-section of all the segments that we operate in. So I wasn't -- three -- I've been in three HHS sites out of the eight, large sites. And I would say what I previously said is applicable in all of the areas of the business.

Yeah. Our guidance is essentially flat year-over-year. We have some capital investments coming online that will hit more heavily in the second half, which allows some new growth from wallet share gain. So that's somewhat advantage in the second half. But in general, the outlook we took in building our guidance and our plan was a flat year-over-year performance. Now there are certain segments that are a little bit higher and some lower in that, but on average, it's basically flat year-over-year.

I don't know Mark, we -- well, we've been a little bit tighter in Europe. I think we probably see more signs of stabilizing there may be compared to -- because it was further off, it's stabilized, we see signs of stabilizing, whereas North America, we probably felt was already stabilizing more earlier.

Sure. I think, with the caveat that I'm 50 days in and I'm still in the process of learning all the ins and outs of this business and understanding the pieces in totality. My initial impression is the strategy is sound and the overall direction is the right place we should be heading. But when you think about moving from A to B, it's not just direction, but it's how big of an engine do you put behind your vehicle. How big you're moving down toward that point?

And where I see opportunity here is to create a more powerful engine around growth, I think the way we organize and think about organic growth, how we link product development that's really driven by sustainability through commercialization execution and shorten that cycle, increase the size of pipeline of opportunities and rigorously manage that process with a strong commercial excellence approach, and take a good strategy and through strategic execution focus really deliver more from it.

And if I think about where is the value to be unlocked, I think, first and foremost, is we have the opportunity to unlock value by delivering consistent organic growth. And we have markets that we are participating in, that have long-term demonstrated low single-digit growth, and by us, differentiating our products through material science and engineering and by differentiating our service model, which we have a lot of opportunity to do. We can gain wallet share and add to that market growth trajectory with some share gain. So I'm highly confident we can take the strategy and move it forward at a faster pace.

We're really not in any position to give guidance on the strategic alternative process. We'll be happy to do that when we have something meaningful to say. But what I will say is that we intend to hit that 3.5 leverage target or lower by the end of our fiscal year.

Yeah.

No. I think, in general, the approach has been quite similar to what I have seen in the past. And I would say they have a strong pricing discipline here at Berry. I think where we can find improvement as we think about our new product development and how we drive organic growth and where we focus our resources to drive that organic growth, we can pick areas that have more -- where we will have more long-term pricing power, where the cost of the package is a smaller ratio of the finished product being sold. Those kinds of metrics and building that into our process in a way that exposes us to larger profit pools.

Yeah. Thank you, Ghansham. I would say, the thoughts around growth and the opportunities, we have owned a very large opportunity around sustainability. And it isn't theoretical because the reality of the world we are in is -- Europe is quite a ways ahead of us. And we are operating in Europe -- and we are seeing where legislation is going and the opportunities it creates for new sorts of highly recyclable -- high recycled content, advanced recycle containing plastic products that the consumers want that fit within extended producer responsibilities and returnable, reusable options. And those drive very large opportunities for growth and share gain if we have products that are superior and differentiated.

And I think a lot of the opportunity here will be to more tightly integrate the work that we're doing in Europe to expand over the larger footprint that we have, knowing that what is happening there is going to end up happening here in the US, and other markets. And I think -- traditionally, I think the company operated a bit more siloed than I would like to see in terms of the whole commercial organization process and how we leverage areas for growth. And I'm sure there will be other observations that come as I learn more about the business, but that would be my initial take.

I'm not sure I understood the question exactly. I'm sorry.

I see. Yeah, more focus on organic growth as opposed to acquisition growth.

Yes. I think that will likely be the outcome just because we have a significant organic growth opportunity staring us in the face. But I think we also need to consider how acquisitions potentially help accelerate that growth. And I would say that brings up another area of thought that I have in terms of how we might be different in the future as opposed to how we've operated historically.

And, when I think about strategic opportunities for acquisition, I think we need to make sure that the lens that we're using is highly focused on the future organic growth that it exposes us to, that it gives us new capabilities and know-how in order to spread across the business. So synergies are great, and we're very effective at executing on synergies and driving that to the bottom line. But we need to make sure that acquisitions we do are also part of our overall organic growth strategy and that they are meant to accelerate the underlying organic growth of the company.

Yeah. Good morning, Arun. You're breaking up a touch, just as a heads-up. But you got the items right. The other one would be working capital. Back to the question earlier, we had over $200 million benefit from working capital in '23 that helped produce the, $900 million plus of free cash flow. Our assumption going into the year is flat. Obviously, we're going to work diligently to drive savings over the course of the year. But consistent with prior years, we assume flat as the year starts. Those are really the only significant bridge items on cash flow.

Yeah. Arun, I think I caught your questions. We're evaluating a wide range of alternatives for that business. We'll certainly update the metrics post whatever, update if and when we have, one. That would not change our focus on driving more growth and higher penetration in high-growth markets irrespective of the impact that, any potential transaction might result in.

Sure. I think, first of all, this is, obviously, a perspective from someone who wasn't here at the time. So I've got an incomplete understanding. But when I think about it, from my perspective, it's a tremendous business. It has good mid-single-digit growth over the long term. But it is a business that looks a lot more to me -- if I think about my history, it looks a lot more like being in the paper business than it does being in the other packaging businesses I've participated at, which means that -- I'm sorry, you're pretty loud there. Thank you -- which means that it is pretty capital intensive and the lumpiness of that capital requirement is much higher than the rest of the businesses that we have.

So -- and it's more cyclical overall even though there is long mid-single-digit growth. So when I think about, what are we trying to achieve here? Well, we want to have consistent earnings, consistent cash flow, we want investors to understand our story and to know when they buy our stock, what they're getting, and what they're invested in. So we need to make sure that when we think about our portfolio, it looks alike and we're not confusing and we're not getting, we're not closing ourselves off to investors we would like to have because we have a very complicated story. So when we look at -- divesting it, we're looking at a good business that just is not a good fit for us and the long-term portfolio that we want to cultivate here.

There isn't anything that I would be in a position to publicly comment on. I will assure you that we are doing a tremendous amount of work on this evaluation process.

Yes. I think we've got a lot of opportunity as we think about that business. And maybe more than any other business I've been a bit surprised by what is actually in that group, what the businesses that make it up are, especially when I think about the way it's named today as Engineered Materials, it's not the name, I think, that I would put on that business long term. And I -- and the issue is, we're pushing close to 40% of the volume that we sell out of that business, is actually consumer-facing.

And my guess is that most investors don't really understand that. So when we think about how are we going to drive that business forward, we're going to use that business to help us close the gap on our consumer-facing goal. So we're trying to move from 70 to 80. And I think we can do that and still deliver the kind of high-margin significant scale, growth, that we have had out of that business historically. So I think, the emphasis there will continue to be on more consumer-facing aspects and less on some of the industrial legacy.

Yeah. I would say with respect to our past divestitures, obviously, each of our businesses has various levels of synergies with the rest of the business. The divestitures that we have completed to date have been on the lower end of that spectrum. So while there has certainly been some negative synergy, it's been on the lower end of the range of synergies of our businesses inside the portfolio. And can you repeat -- I'm sorry, the part about -- your last part of your question about HHS?

Yes. I would say our pass-through mechanisms are similar in terms of polymer pass-through. We have a number of different arrangements, but the lag on polymer pass-through is pretty similar in that business to the rest of our portfolio. With respect to sourcing, there are many common raw materials. When we did that acquisition, that was before the RPC acquisition, which was a much larger acquisition relative to scale. So we do not believe, any activities that may conclude from our process would negatively impact the base company relative to cost synergies.

Yes. Sure. Thanks, George. With respect to foodservice, had another great year in '23, and that's been a strong performing franchise for decades now, really since that product was introduced around the year 2000 actually. The growth in Q4 was, slightly below double digits, but still strong as we were lapping some of the new wins that we got around a year ago. We're expecting continued growth for that business in '24. We continue to add incremental capacity to service demand for our cup as we continue to take share from both paper and styrofoam.

Thank you, operator. I'd just like to thank everyone for your interest and participation and we look forward to telling you more in future calls. Thank you.