Lachlan Murdoch
Fox Corporation (FOX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Phil. Hi, good morning. Thanks for the questions. So as regards, FOX Sports and our sports portfolio and any sort of direct-to-consumer proposition I think the -- our business is fundamentally very similar to ESPN's. And so, we face the same strategic priorities as they do and probably looking at doing -- looking at similar paths forward, as we go forward with our portfolio.

The thing that we put first and foremost is, really to protect our premium sports content and place it in front of consumers, wherever we can. At the moment, that premium content drives the most value from being behind a paywall, within the traditional cable and satellite pay-TV universe. And we think that pay-TV ecosystem, continues to be of tremendous value for our businesses and really drives the value of FOX Sports and that content, and will for a long time to come.

Having said that, as consumer demands change, consumer tastes change, we will endeavor to put our content and our brands in front of consumers in whichever manner, makes the most sense for them, provided that it remains behind a pay wall and we get full value for those rights and those brands. But it's very important to say, it's not an either-or proposition. It's not a -- we don't envision a moment, when you leave a pay-TV universe and quickly transition to a direct-to-consumer universe, we think you'll enter a phase where both are important. You're not choosing between one or the other or ultimately, the consumer might choose between one or the other, but we'll be well positioned in any distribution mechanism.

So as -- I can't answer your question on the legal ramifications, of having league investors in AM in a platform. But I can give you an update, on the broader advertising environment. We're very pleased with our upfront from a national advertising perspective. Our upfront results, were very pleasing. We were able to drive both pricing and volume, across our key categories of news and sports. And obviously, you've heard about the tremendous growth at Tubi, this past quarter and in fact all year.

Categories that really impacted the upfront, were like positive -- in August for national remaining with national auto mobiles, very strong category for us travel in the upfront very strong in pharmaceuticals. From a local perspective, if you look at a local pacing, ex-political obviously, we've got a year-on-year comparison with very strong political year, last year. Ex-political, we're pacing flat to slightly up. That includes some of the local digital revenues. And those categories similar auto was very strong. Financial service was strong. Health, but offset by softness in sort of retail telecom, and we know as we've talked about in past quarters our wagering. So overall, we're very pleased with where we are and we think we're going to have a pretty decent second half -- calendar second half.

Thanks very much, Jessica. On the balance sheet and Steve can chime in, but we continue to agree with you wholeheartedly, that I think we have the best balance sheet in the business. It gives us tremendous flexibility moving forward in both how we return capital to shareholders, whether it's through dividends or share repurchases.

I think Steve mentioned in his remarks, I mean we repurchased $2 billion worth of shares this past year. That's probably an elevated level because as we look across the landscape, we didn't see any attractive M&A opportunities this past year that particularly caught our attention.

We are always looking for businesses that fit our portfolio that will be attractive growth businesses for the business. But we take this with a – what's the word dispassion – dispassionate kind of view in terms of what's going to drive the best sort of long-term shareholder value. So we balance up return of capital and sort of accretive value opportunities on pretty much a daily basis. So Steve, do you want to add anything to that?

Thanks, John. Why don't I start back to front with the strategy and the shuttering of FOX Bet, the joint venture at least end – and Steve can jump in on the financial implications. So yes, as we announced last week, it was announced last week, Flutter exercised its right to terminate the FOX Bet joint venture. They have every right to do this. They were the operator and really the entire funder of FOX Bet. And when they reached a certain benchmark investment, they had the right to cancel that joint venture and really chose to focus on their other brand FanDuel, which is America's number one sports wagering site. So while it's fair to say we were disappointed by this outcome, ultimately we aspire to be operators of a wagering – sports wagering business.

Now we did anticipate it. And I can't stress more that we are extremely pleased with the financial outcome and the value creation through FOX Bet that we have generated for all of our shareholders. And to explain that, I should just step back a moment and remind everyone of a couple of things.

FOX Bet, we didn't spend any capital in FOX Bet. That was entirely funded by Flutter. And we had the option to pick up 50% of FOX Bet upon licensing if we became a licensed betting operator in the United States. So while we didn't put any cash into the FOX Bet joint venture, I think, we've derived -- we were extremely successful and we derived significant value from it. One of the remaining elements of value coming out of FOX Bet is the brand of FOX Bet Super 6, which is the most successful free-to-play wagering business in the United States and offers a tremendous funnel for wagering sites going forward. And this is a brand and an operation that we continue -- we will continue to operate.

Of course, we anticipated this potential outcome with -- started moving away from FOX Bet. So we were able to negotiate our 18.6% option in FanDuel as I mentioned the number one site in the United States. If you just look at the value of DraftKings -- the increasing value of DraftKings over recent times some people have put that value of our option in FanDuel of up to $2 billion. So we are very pleased with that outcome and we wish FanDuel every continued success.

We also as part of this journey invested into the top co at Flutter purchasing 2.5% of the business for roughly $400 million. I think that investment now sits at a value of over $800 million. And importantly, now as we move forward we are now free to work with any of the other betting operators. Many of them have reached out to us already.

So we feel our existing sort of performance in FOX Bet has been terrific. We've built a tremendous amount of value and we're really positioned well to continue to benefit from the emergence of sports wager in the United States. That gives you kind of an overview of where we are. It's an important time. But Steve do you want to mention any of the financial?

Thanks, Ben. Look first on Tubi the – obviously, Anjali she starts September 1 and we're looking forward to her adding her expertise and experience to the business. And obviously with any incoming CEO, I'm sure you'll see it with fresh eyes and find fresh opportunities. If you look at the Tubi business today, the TBT growth has really been everything. It's grown tremendously rapidly and strongly.

And then what that's done is then that's obviously driven advertising opportunities and revenue. TBT growth continues to grow at a faster pace than revenue. So you see fill rates not actually keeping up to pace with TBT growth, which is a good thing, because there's actually more opportunities to place our clients' advertising than we can fill at the moment and that's really driven by the strong viewership growth.

I think over time, and I should also say with the viewership growth I think one of the key differentiators for Tubi, if you look across the AVOD market is that it's primarily built on an on-demand platform. So our viewers are actively -- proactively clicking on content to watch. And so we know, they're engaged and we know they're in front of their screens watching that content. This is very different from just a fast channel where someone might tune in the channel and then leave it on and it auto plays in the background. There's an absolute room and a place for fast channels.

Tubi has a fast channel service within it. But I think 90% of his viewing is actually from video-on-demand people proactively clicking on that content and coming to us to watch that movie or that TV show. And the library of those movies and TV shows continues to grow. I think this time last quarter, we had 55,000 titles. We now have 60,000 titles which equates to roughly 200,000 hours of individual movies and TV shows for our consumers to enjoy. So that will continue. I think one of the areas that we'll be looking at is expanding the categories that we're strong in. There's certain sort of content categories and verticals that we are super serving and other ones that we can continue to -- there's some low-hanging fruit to continue to monetize. Steve, do you want to talk to the EBITDA investment?

And just finally on the Big Ten as regards to University of Oregon and University of Washington coming into the Big Ten conference, look, we just think these additions will only strengthen our call it football franchise across FOX Sports, but particularly our partnership and it is a partnership in the Big Ten Network. So we think it's very positive for us across the board.

Thank you very much, Robert. So look, our relation with affiliates is very strong. We catch up with them regularly. And we understand the headwinds facing broadcast television. And we're without -- in our station group right we see -- have all the same issues that they have. So we're simpatico with them in both the opportunities and the risk of the headwinds in that business. We are pretty -- what's the word vocal or proud of the fact that we've protected our key sports franchises for pay- TV environment, but also the -- for our affiliates, our distribution our most important distribution partners. We don't take our NFL games and put them anywhere else. We keep them exclusive for our distribution partners. And I think that's understood and very well received. And because of that, I think we will be able to continue to drive the sort of industry-leading pricing, both in a pay universe and free universe. And that pricing will certainly continue to ameliorate or balance any reduction in subscriber erosion and subscribers across the universe. So, that's where we feel we are with our affiliates. And I think, we're in a pretty good place for them.

Thank you.