Lane Riggs
Valero Energy Corporation (VLO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, Neil, it's Lane. So I'm not going to, you know, I'll start by saying thank you. And I will say that, you know, I wouldn't trade our commercial team for any other team in the industry. I sort of spoke about this in the past. You know, everyone in our company understands the position they play. I think sometimes some, I've been in organizations where that's not really clear and you can get a lot of interference running between the supply chain. That's not true at Valero. Everybody has a position they play and they understand how to do it well. Refining focuses on reliability and operating. Envelopes and expenses, our P&E coordinates between the groups that make the signals, and our refining commercial groups execute the signals. And it's pretty clear on how all that's supposed to work. And so I would tell you that that's really the key to our execution. And, of course, finally, everybody in the corporation is incentivized with the same goals. We don't have different groups having their own sort of incentives. So that's how we get alignment all the way through. So glad to have them.

I'm going to let Homer answer that.

And it's January. So we still have the possibility of cold weather hitting the Gulf Coast.

Yes. I mean Joe has been pretty consistent as a leadership team, we've been pretty consistent. We look at everything that comes on to the market. I think structurally, our view really is whether it's policies in Europe and Canada and the United States in terms of the desire to try to move away from fossil fuels, the difficulty of -- and the difficulty is to make investments, we sort of see transportation fuels being structurally short. So we do look through that lens when we look at assets that come on. We also start during the 2000s, we were the biggest consolidator in the industry. So we know what it takes to do this, and we're very good at it. And so we -- our eyes are wide open when we look at all these assets and they come on and we understand the full cost and we compare that with organic growth and we compare that to buying back shares. And so it's all in that same framework. We do like our asset base. Clearly, California is a tough place to operate and probably getting tougher. So that's really all I want to say about that part. But what I also want to say is, we're not -- again, we look at everything and we look at -- we continue to look at refineries as well.

Hey Ryan, it's Lane. The way I would think about this is if you go back when we -- historically, we used to sort of spend, I would say, we said $1.5 billion sustainable capital. That would actually include regulatory capital. I mean that's how we frame it. It sort of maintain our assets to generate the earnings we're supposed to and try to work your sustain of your regulatory capital in that, albeit it would be lumpy. And so you're going to average around that number. So that's how we think about the regulatory side of it. I don't really foresee at least right now that we have a large regulatory spend. Clearly, that could always change. In terms of our strategic capital, historically, we were around $1 billion. As an organization, we felt like -- we feel like we can execute $1 billion pretty well. We have some experience over 10, 11 years ago where we spent more on strategic capital and then and it was sort of difficult to manage. And so we, as an organization, we decided that we're going to live within a sort of $1 billion on the upside of strategic capital. Since COVID, we've been at about $0.5 billion, and that's our guidance right now. And we feel like that's a pretty good number year-in and year-out that we're going to steward around that we'll that there'll be enough projects, whether they're in refining or transportation or our renewable platforms that all meet and work through our gated process to meet our return thresholds.

Is there Jason, this is Lane. I will say still the lowest cost guide, and we work on this like you cannot imagine you should know that as an organization, we're committed to making sure that we are the best in class with expenses.

We'll have a look at the numbers. I mean part of the other thing that really drives this in our throughput through even though we have what we would characterize as a variable and fixed cost, we run in through our expenses, most refining expenses are in large part six. So the more barrels we run, the better that metric work. And so you really got to -- the best time of the year to look at that and to really understand that as sort of third quarter, essentially. That's really when you're seeing the system. Normally, we have the signal to run the highest, both things are online and the cost structures are where they are. So it's the best time to get an understanding of where the base OpEx is for the system.

Yeah. So the way I would think about this is we're going to try to do a little more delineation in our IR pack deck to try to maybe demonstrate the success of a lot of our projects in our gaining process. But we're still disciplined in that we don't want to have all this forward-looking conversation around projects, whether they're small or big or whatever. What we do is we -- we have demonstrated hopefully, to everyone that our process does generate returns and then we had that we've -- like I said earlier, we nominally lease today, I think we have $0.5 billion a year of spend that will generate the returns we think will make its way through the gated process.

Yeah. And so we changed that. I don't know, it's a couple of years. We're really coming out of COVID. Going into COVID, we'd taken the strategy trying to push it all the way down to two. And found going into COVID our experience was that was probably too low. So we've decided to bring on go ahead and look at our minimum closer to four. Good thing about being a four now versus two before we actually do earn a return on that cash before it was zero. So -- but that's really due to our experience as we went through COVID.

