Laurence Fink
BlackRock, Inc. (BLK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Craig. Happy New Year.

Thank you.

Great question. I think it will be answered by me and Bayo. So let me once again go over the strategic rationale. As I said in my prepared speeches, and I think Bayo would echo everything I'm going to be saying. We're just beginning, I would say, a very bright investment horizon for infrastructure. And as I said, deficits matter. More and more governments are going to have more difficulties to do deficit financing. And in turn, more and more governments are even focusing on doing more public, private. I think GIP's success in the U.K. and Australia are very good examples of working with governments in terms of helping them sell assets. But at the same time, using the private sector to improve the quality of services and GIP has been a leader in that.

I believe that a lot of capital that it could be needed as we digitize everything, the need for upgrading our electrical power grids worldwide is a must. The capital associated with that is going to be enormous. In my travels around the world, more governmental leaders are talking about the need for energy independence. And they look -- if they have some form of energy, they're going to be trying to be doing more of that, but more importantly or just as importantly, the amount of capital they need to provide -- to develop more decarbonizing investments in wind and solar, to provide broader energy for their growth in their economies is very important. If we are going to decarbonize the world, the amount of capital and infrastructure is going to be very necessary. If we are going to be more and more reliant on interconnectivity worldwide, the need for the upgrading of ports is vital.

As more and more human beings grow into a middle-class lifestyle, the demand for air travel grows dramatically, the need for high-quality airports grows dramatically. And so that's just one segment. And then when you think about corporations. Corporations historically disposed of divisions to private equity. We see more corporations instead of disposing divisions, selling portions of those divisions maybe keeping a major part of that, selling parts of their infrastructure or partnering with companies in their infrastructure, like the deal we did with Occidental Petroleum for Air Capture, the transaction BlackRock did with AT&T on 5G build-out across the United States. These are just a few examples, pipelines in the Gulf region. And so the industrial logic is pretty large in our opinion, that the next 10 years is going to be greatly about the expansion of the global capital markets and infrastructure.

And so we believe the demand for capital in infrastructure will only to grow larger than larger. And as I said a few times in my prepared remarks. Having a long duration, high coupon inflation-protected asset is a very strong asset class for all of retirement funds. But importantly, as you mentioned wealth, we believe a great opportunity to providing to the wealth management products, these types of products so they can enjoy these type of long-duration assets. They're going to throw off these above what I would say, public market returns. And so I believe across the board, sovereign funds, both retirements, both in the defined contribution space and the defined benefit space, across the board, these are the preferred instruments.

In my calls with clients today, I can tell you more and more sovereign wealth funds, see infrastructure as a major growth area in their asset allocation. I'm going to let Bayo talk about BlackRock and us. I would only just say at Black -- from the BlackRock side, we only had one target. We only had one organization where we believe in their business model. It was only one organization where we believe we had such complementary skill sets. And then most importantly, it's a team of leaders under Bayo that we believed in. And we believe that will create real opportunities for BlackRock, and I'm pleased that Bayo will be joining the BlackRock board post closing. And importantly, we look forward to having the intellectual capital that GIP is bringing alongside our superb team and infrastructure.

Let me just add one thing. Bayo and I are going to be on the road a lot. And we are going to -- with the combined organization, we have an amazing story. And we are going to be telling everyone the story from the corporation sides to governments. I just got an e-mail from a big government and saying, okay, there are things we could do more. So that was a nice e-mail that I just received. But I do believe our key is making sure our clients and the investors that have invested in BlackRock and GIP that they understand the merits of the combination and that they think this is even better for them. And our job is to make sure that everybody sees it and we execute that way. But we are very excited about this, and I look forward to being on the road with Bayo.

GIP is in the final stages of raising a very large fund, which because it's in the stages of raising the money that we cannot talk about it. So stand by. But it's in the late stages of fundraising.

Let me just add on some of our small and large transformational deals. Transformational deals could be as large as a BGI transaction. But if you remember, everyone, when we did that transaction, most people hated it. They did not see the merits, did not see the marriage of active and passive, did not think cultures can merge, did not understand ETFs as a technology. And as Bayo was saying earlier, what we bought BGI was under $300 billion in iShares assets, and now it's over $3.5 trillion. In the past 10 years, we acquired First Reserve when it had about $3 billion, and it's more than tripled its assets in a number of years in terms of infrastructure.

Just recently, we acquired Aperio and the assets are up 95% since we acquired Aperio. And then just as importantly, in technology buying EBITDA-Front, we made a statement that good portfolio analytics are going to become very important, not just public market analytics. And we are now the leading technology platform, both in privates and publics. And you dovetail all of this is it's all wrapped around our global view of where the global capital markets are doing. The technology needs for markets and the movement. And I do believe all of this is going to be playing out. As I said in my prepared remarks, I truly believe infrastructure and Bayo reconfirm that infrastructure is at the very beginnings as the great need of capital and because of the type of asset it is, the demand for this type of investment is really going to be strong. And we believe, and this is what our statement is, we believe the next 10 years is going to be a lot about infrastructure. And this will become more and more of a major component of the entire private markets ecosystem.

Thank you, operator. I want to thank everybody for joining our -- joining us this morning and for your interest in BlackRock. Our fourth quarter and full year performance is a direct result of our steadfast commitment to serving clients and evolving for our long-term needs of our clients. Our acquisition of GIP and the organizational changes will be transformational and accelerating our growth ambitions and delivering value for our clients and for our shareholders.

Hopefully, everyone could hear that we are incredibly excited about the opportunities ahead of us. the opportunity of having partners like Bayo and his team, and we believe we have never been in a stronger position to grow with the global capital markets and to grow and being a very large client serving firm and helping our clients meet their future needs. Everyone, have a very good quarter and try to enjoy it as much as possible. Thank you.