Leon Topalian
Nucor Corporation (NUE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes, Curt, I’ll kick it off, and if there is any other comments for our team. I’ll certainly let them jump in and thank you for the condolences regarding our team number. As we’ve mentioned for decades now, the health, safety and well-being of our 32,000 Nucor team member family is the greatest responsibility we all bear each and every day. They are the ones that are delivering every result we’re about to talk about. So again, thank you for acknowledging that. It’s interesting. There is a lot of talk about new capacity, particularly in the sheet. And we get a lot of questions, Curt, as you know, around well, as we think about new market entrants or increased demand won’t that flattening of the cost curve change the profile and earnings. And what I would point to is what you really asked about is the longs as we look at structural and while we don’t break out the individual structural mill Nucor-Yamato were Berkley being on the financial performance or the individual rebar mills. I would tell you the performance of our long products divisions has been incredible from a financial result. They are generating incredible returns for our company. Nucor-Yamato is operating at a much higher utilization rate. And so over the last 2 or 3 years and they have been 10 prior, I think prior to the pandemic our average utilization rate at NYS, for example, is in the upper 60s to low 70s that shifted much higher to the mid to upper 70s, low 80s. So that flow through and that run rate is generating great returns. So I would tell you, the outlook and continued demand for our structural products and loan products remains pretty optimistic. Again, we’ve seen incredibly consistent returns in our longest products divisions and groups that we think will continue into 2024.

Yes, Curt, that’s a lot to unpack in there. What I would tell you on the macro, and I’ll let Brad Ford share a little bit more of the details, could be more proud of how our products groups and teams and divisions have performed over the last several years. The non-res sector of our economy has remained incredibly resilient. We had 10 straight quarters over $1 billion earned in that business on the downstream side of our portfolio. And while it was a little bit under that for Q4 of ‘23, its continuing performance is strong. We’re seeing order entry rates that are strong. As we move into Q1, we see that moving upwards. I’m not going to get detailed on the margins, but we see that improving. And so Brad, maybe provide a little bit more context to what we’re seeing as we enter 2024.

Thanks, Curt.

Yes. I’d actually been pleased to. So in November of 2022, we stood in New York and rolled out the most comprehensive detailed analysis that we’ve ever published before to show you as the analysts what we were going to do and the accountability by which we’re going to hold ourselves to that through-cycle EBITDA with the completion of our CapEx investments would yield about a $6.7 billion through-cycle EBITDA performance. I’d tell you at $7.4 million for the third best year in Nucor, we’re doing really well and that’s going to continue to improve because not all those projects have come to fruition yet. We’ve got galv lines being built, we’ve got our new micro mill being built in Lexington, North Carolina, we’ve got the investments in Kingman, Arizona that we’re making, where we’re expanding our resource pool and how we bring these products to market.

So I would tell you we’re doing incredibly well. And again, we will look back at times and look – coming out of the cycle, did we hit the trough? And what I would tell you is I’m really proud of our earnings. I’m proud of the way the team has been able to accomplish those. And then again, the results that we’ve been able to see, as we shared with you on the opening remarks, to generate $30 billion over the last 4 years, $20 billion in net earnings and 10% or $10 billion given back to our shareholders has been an incredible well disciplined growth strategy and that’s going to continue. We’re going to be very disciplined in how we think about capital allocation moving forward. Steve, anything you’d like to add on as we continue to grow and looking at that run rate of 6.7%?

Thank you.

Yes, Timna, I’ll kick it off and then let Steve. So I’ll begin with the second part of your question, which, again, obviously, the proxies have Nucor took a hard look at some of the select assets within the U.S. Steel portfolio. But at the end of the day, we’re not going to overpay for any assets. We’re going to continue to be very discipline and how we thing about growth. Some of the cash generated was just stronger results and stronger shipments and some pricing and flow through that we didn’t fully anticipate. But I would tell you again from my perspective, we continue to remain an incredibly undervalued stock as we think about the growth metrics that have already shared won’t repeat again, but at 7.5x EBITDA, I think we are a great value in terms of the things that we’re doing in producing.

In regards of who ends up owning U.S. fields assets, Nucor today’s market cap is larger than the next three largest combined steel companies in North America. We are the industry leader. And so again, as we look at our strategy and our growth we’re going to be incredibly disciplined in making sure that the investments we make in our core and expand beyond are delivering the results our shareholders expect. And then they expand beyond particularly that it’s providing some insulation to the traditional sickle county of steel that we’re looking for the steel adjacent downstream businesses that, again, operate a little countercyclical to what we’re seeing in steel and we’re seeing those, again, manifest themselves for CHI, the megatrends that we’re seeing in towers and structures and some of the other businesses that we’ve acquired over the last 3 or 4 years.

Sorry, was your question on Gallatin’s ramp-up?

Okay. Yes, I’ll provide some of – high level. What I would tell you in the last 3 or 4 months of 2023, the team has executed incredibly well. We have seen daily, weekly, monthly production records set at that facility. They are – have realized the full run rate potential of that mill and now are operating at an extremely high level. So, they have turned – more than turned in the quarter and again, are producing at or near run rate capabilities, and we will continue that as we move into 2024.

Thanks.

Yes. Look, I will begin and Greg Murphy, our EVP in Business Services and Sustainability can jump in as well. But from a high level, look, it’s a great question. One of the beautiful things about Nucor and our positioning is this, one of the top five recyclers in the world and certainly the largest in the Western Hemisphere. Our EAF steelmaking technology means that we don’t have to take the billions and billions and billions of dollars of profit we are making in pivot in transition from the old style integrated facilities. You are seeing headlines around the world companies in Europe that are – have made the pledge to 100% switch to EAF steelmaking technologies because they have no choice. The question in my mind isn’t about and if. This nation is going to move to a greener, more sustainable platform as we rebuild, restore and continue to grow the digital economy. The real question in my mind is the pace in which we changed, do we have the infrastructure, do we have the grid hardening, do we have the resources across the United States to be able to effectively help the EV users power their cars at homes and everything else. But it’s a long-winded way to get to the answer of your question is if you think about the PPAs that were part of, you think about some of these investment projects, the Louisiana partnership in Exxon, they didn’t cost us anything because of the strength of our balance sheet, the strength of Nucor’s leadership position, it wasn’t a huge outlay of cash, if you think about some of the other investments that are smaller in size. So, they are not – there are tens of millions rather than hundreds of billions. It’s positioning ourselves and finding partners out there that are doing different things with carbon and biochar. We are looking at technologies in Europe that are producing pig iron at or near net zero embodied carbon. So, there is a number of things that we are examining that are not at this point, large scale from a CapEx standpoint. Greg, anything you would add to that?

Thanks Bill.

Good morning.

Thank you, Martin.

Tristan, I will kick it off and certainly let Steve Laxton and share any additional comments. But if you – as you look at our M&A pipeline, you think about our strategy. As we think about growing the core, expanding beyond, what we said is roughly we expect over the next 5 years, 6 years, that we would begin to generate about 20% to 25% of our overall revenues through expand beyond businesses. So, we are moving to that. So, it sort of gives you a rough breakdown to where you are going to see us continue to think about growth, where we are going to continue to channel our capital dollars. Regarding the geography, I would tell you, it’s probably a safe bet that Nucor is going to stay in North America though that’s the sector this economy that we know the best, where we have the most advantages to use the strength of Nucor from our culture, our team, our conversion model and understanding. As the market leader in 12 of the 14 major steel market and categories, we have been in business a long time. We understand the boundaries around this industry, and we also understand our customers and where they are wanting to go. We are making investments not for our benefits. We are making investments not to be the largest by volume. We are being disciplined in those investments to create capability sets that our customers continue to grow their businesses and continue to flourish.

And then, Curt, your last question on the exploration in the Pacific Northwest. What I would tell you is, we are doing just that. Again, it’s a market we have been in for two decades. Our team in Seattle continues to do an incredible job. And again, we are going to continue to evaluate that market, recognizing the customers that we serve in that market. And where does that most make sense and stay tuned.

In closing, I just want to say thank you to our Nucor team members for another great year in 2023 as we begin ‘24, let’s make sure we take care of our most important value the health, safety and well-being of our Nucor family. Thank you to our customers for the trust you place in us with each and every order and thank you to our shareholders for the valuable capital that you entrust us with each and every day. Have a great day.