Lorenzo Simonelli
Baker Hughes Company (BKR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, James.

Yes, definitely, James. And we’ve said it before, and we wanted to state it more clearly. Our IET business has a very expansive portfolio of equipment and solutions, which really play across many different end markets, including upstream, midstream, refining, petrochemical and a number of industrial end markets, aerospace, automotive. And we think that’s been underappreciated to date. And largely because there is been a large focus, which quite reasonably on LNG and New Energy, and we’re very proud of our LNG business. We’ve worked hard over the years to build it, and we’ve got differentiated solutions. And we’re going to be committed to continue being the market leader for liquefaction solutions across all of the LNG markets. And we think that LNG is still very positive with LNG awards over the next 2 to 3 years and also reaching the market installed capacity of 800 MTPA by 2030. But our Gas Tech Equipment is also more than that. We’ve demonstrated exceptional growth since 2020 increasing by more than 50% in other areas, and we’ve got good visibility on a number of growth opportunities in the coming years.

A couple of examples, as you look at onshore offshore production OOP, we’ve got a leadership position in FPSOs, and we see another 7 to 9 FPSOs over the course of the next few years. In onshore production, we’re seeing the emergence of a number of opportunities associated with pipeline and the processing of gas in particular, as that continues to grow in places like the Middle East and also exposure to petrochemicals, which is ultimately anticipated to continue to grow and we’ve got the new Nova class of turbines, compressors, valves, pumps, gears, digital solutions. So put all in all, it boils down to an exceptionally versatile IET portfolio that provides us significant growth opportunities as we serve many of the strengthening underserved markets in the coming years.

Definitely. We’ve been very pleased with the progress of New Energy orders and you saw last year that we continue to take up also our guidance on New Energy. And as you correctly stated, we’ve given guidance this year relative to the $800 million and also the $1 billion. And we really think that this growth continues going forward. The markets are growing, maturing across both IET and OFSE portfolio technologies. And when you look at it, it really is a sequence of carbon capture technologies that we have in our portfolio, Compact Carbon Capture, Mosaic, as you look at direct air capture, you look at the partnership we have with NET Power supplying turbo expanders. And also, as you look at hydrogen and you’ve seen the growing emphasis on hydrogen and hard-to-abate areas but also geothermal and looking at emissions management and deflaring. And I think again, as a consequence of some of the discussions at COP 28, there is a clear move towards accelerating some of these as we continue to move forward. And our total addressable market, we’ve mentioned it before, for New Energy in 2030 is between $60 billion to $70 billion across the five major markets that we serve. And we believe we can book $6 billion to $7 billion of New Energy orders by 2030. So again, it’s something that we see as a growing area of the business and feel confident in that $6 billion to $7 billion of New Energy orders in 2030.

Thanks, James.

Luke, I think the other thing I would just mention is it shows significant growth across both segments and continuing the trajectory that we have laid out very clearly with the targets set forth for ‘25 and ‘26 on the EBITDA rate as well as then the free cash flow. So, we feel very confident on the execution of the strategy that we have laid out.

Yes. Sure. I will let Nancy walk through the details. It’s a combination of a number of things and actions that we have already put in place, so.

Yes, sure. And Arun, good to hear from you. And we see another strong year of orders. And again, if you look at our history, this again would be a significant year for us. And in GTE, we see another strong year of LNG orders. We anticipate 65 MTPA of LNG FIDs. Just note some of those FIDs this year, we actually booked last year. But outside of LNG, we expect another strong year of onshore/offshore production where there are a number of potential FPSO awards and some good opportunities also on the onshore side as well. You have also got the continued momentum of booking outside of LNG orders and GTE in 2024 increasing by more than 50%. Services had a strong year last year. We signed over $1 billion of CSA commitments in the fourth quarter, and we expect to continue to see that contractual service agreement momentum to continue as the projects get near commissioning. And you will also recall that we signed our service contracts closer to commissioning time of projects, which is coming into place. We discussed new energy and CTS expect $800 million to $1 billion of orders that we highlighted and continuing momentum in Industrial Tech, which should continue to progress in line with GDP. And I would look at overall IET order outlook remains strong, excited about the opportunities across all of our areas that we serve. And our midpoint $12.5 billion would still rival our second biggest order year in 2022 when we booked $12.7 billion of IET orders. So, continuing to see the momentum on the order side here.

Yes, very topical at the moment, Arun. And again, if you look at the aspect of LNG, no impact for us this year. And again, as you know, the project landscape and also the cycle of projects is multiyear. But I would say that, again, there is some uncertainty, in particular, on North America, given some of the discussions that are taking place and some of the delays in the permitting. I would also say I am disappointed that this is coming about right now. U.S. LNG is enormously beneficial to the U.S. economy. It’s had a large impact, beneficial impact on global energy markets, especially when you look at everything that’s happened in. There has been commitments made to providing LNG supply to many other countries. And I think it’s important that we continue to go down that path, and it’s a matter of national security for many. And so we anticipate that this will work itself through, and we don’t anticipate that there will be any detrimental impact over the long-term to U.S. LNG. Outside of U.S. LNG though international projects continue to be buoyant, and there is several opportunities in the Middle East, you look at Africa, you look at Southeast Asia. And again, we have got an extensive reach on the international projects as well. So, no impact in ‘24 and continuing to monitor the situation in the U.S., but anticipate that will solve itself over the long-term.

Yes, sure. It’s something that we continue to navigate. I think externally, you see all the news around the aerospace supply chain and you have seen that we have managed it in 2023, and there will be no change to managing it in 2024 and that’s contemplated within the guidance that we provided. The situation remains stable, but will be tight through the end of 2024. And we are working closely with our supply base to make sure that we continue executing. It is tight, though, and we have incorporated that into the guidance that we have provided, but ensuring we don’t have any impact to our results.

Thanks.

Hi Scott.

So, Scott, as you saw also in 2023, we actually had bookable orders that were on projects that we had in FID. We wouldn’t obviously put that in any guidance, and we think that the 65 MTPA FIDs will happen this year. But as you look at any slowdown in the U.S., there is clearly projects internationally that can take the opportunity and offset what was anticipated from U.S. LNG over time. Again, it’s not something that we factored into the guidance, but again, it’s something that could happen and we will continue to monitor the situation. I think the benefit for us is that we play globally. We play with a total gamut of solutions around LNG and so when it comes to small modular onshore, offshore stick or floating, you come to us. And again, there is international opportunities.

So, we haven’t given a specific percentage, but your characterization is correct that there is a large opportunity. As you look at onshore and offshore from the FPSO perspective than the gas pipelines, but then you also go to the transactional business, and when you think of industrial segments, fertilizers, petrochemical, refineries, all of this goes to the transactional side of services. And we mentioned one of the paths to the 20% EBITDA for IET is also the new service solutions and the digital offerings. There is a tremendous amount of opportunity as we continue to expand across the balance of plant as we look to our Cordant solutions being implemented, and we are already seeing some success in the marketplace with non-traditional customers, and that’s really a growth opportunity as we go forward. And it just is a further demonstration of the diversity and versatility of the IET portfolio.

Thanks Scott.

Yes. Again, Marc, going to also what I mentioned before relative to LNG, we see that in 2024, there should be 65 MTPA of awards, and within our guidance, obviously, we have taken account for what we have booked in the past and what we anticipate to book this year. And we wouldn’t go and actually start putting in orders that we haven’t seen FID-ed yet. So, that’s from a guidance perspective, we are banking on the projects being FID this year and coming through. And then if there is an opportunity, it’s that there is an acceleration, as was discussed earlier with Scott relative to other projects that come into our order book but haven’t FID-ed yet. So, feel confident with the range that we have given and again, there is the growth outside of LNG that is significant as well. And I just maybe mention again, if you look at what we have laid out, this would be close to the second year record that has already been here for that business. So, feeling good about the momentum continuing as we go forward.

Thanks. And look, we are coming to time here. So, I just want to thank everyone for joining the call. And as we mentioned, very much looking forward to 2024, continuing the momentum of change within Baker Hughes and continuing to execute for our customers and also for the employee base and meeting what we have laid out from a guidance perspective. So, thank you very much everybody.