Marc Miller
Universal Health Services, Inc. (UHS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I think that’s the main point, that it’s going to be hard to go backwards because of these safety net not-for-profit hospitals that rely on this. And so the crux of your question as to whether or not you can bank on this in the future, we never know, but I think it’s going to be hard for them to reverse a lot of this. And in fact, to Steve’s point, we’re seeing a lot more activity in other states that we had never seen before. So we think it’s going to increase.

I’ll just add one thing to what Steve said. We’re looking, and I obviously agree with everything Steve said, but we’re looking at more outpatient opportunities now than we probably have done in the past. And so I think more of them are being presented to us, and again, if we think that there are good returns there and that they make sense for increasing our success in our markets, we’ll continue to look at those and deploy more capital to outpatient, maybe at a greater percentage than we did historically.

In both things. Sorry.

I’ll do the acute care development.

As to your second question about the portfolio and acute care opportunities, we track very carefully all the companies familiar with what you’re referring to, to the question of portfolio rationalization for some of those other companies out there. We are most interested in what we can do in our current acute care markets. So if there are opportunities to pick up other hospitals within markets that we are already present, we would certainly look to do that.

But in addition to that, we are familiar with the whole portfolios of these companies and if there were opportunities to expand to new markets that we thought made sense, we would do that as well. Like Steve said earlier, we’re kind of agnostic as to which side we deploy capital to. But if there are opportunities, we’ll certainly pursue them.

No. Well, the question is, we look quite often as to whether or not it makes sense to raise wages as a way to increase capacity and we have done that in certain areas. It’s not as easy as one might think, but we definitely look at that and we try to figure out if there are areas where that would make more sense.

The other factor for us is we have high occupancy in a lot of these facilities. So we’re constantly looking and reviewing ways that we can add beds to the facilities to increase capacity. And one of the things when Steve talks about the portfolio rationalization that we’ve done on the behavioral side in the last few years, what that also allows us to do is spend less time on facilities that are not growing and really spend more of our time figuring out how to do programmatic growth, not just beds, but just changing program offerings at certain facilities and changes like that that we think will have a positive effect. So we’re doing a lot of that as well.