Mark Millett
Steel Dynamics, Inc. (STLD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

I would just add, in the fourth quarter, and our belief is that the fabrication is kind of troughed in large part. But in the fourth quarter, we had the highest order input rate of the prior six quarters. So volumes are -- will turn. Obviously, you've got a little seasonality in Q1, but the expectation is things will go upward thereafter.

I would say that for sure, volume and pricing appears to have stabilized.

I guess, I would just leave it as already stated, the order input rate increased in Q4. That will flow through this year. You all have as you -- I know you appreciate sort of seasonality in this first quarter with the winter months and construction being a little inhibited by the weather. But I think we will certainly see a turn into the second quarter and through the rest of the year.

Just one added point. Although we are disappointed with the CapEx creep there at Sinton. We are very, very confident -- I mean, sorry, sorry, in Columbus aluminum. We're confident that that's the final creep, but it has no impact to schedule. To be honest, it is going at a breadth taking place, absolutely phenomenal job by the team down there. And there's no doubt we'll be up and running midyear of '25.

Thank you, Carlos. The commercial team, in all honesty, has only been put together over the last, I would say, two months. They're very, very active with our customer base and all honestly, we all are at every level. And the reception is incredibly high. And I would suggest that we have total confidence that we're going to be able to support the ramp-up in '25 into '26.

When you think about the four lines or particularly the two lines in Sinton, obviously, it's going to expand our value-add sort of product portfolio down there and enhance the margin directly there. But as importantly, it will allow us to fully utilize the downstream lines. So yes, the team has done a phenomenal job on the hot side.

The -- you're going to see great gains there through increased utilization. As Barry said, we're knocking on 75% utilization today in January and 80% is right around the corner. But downstream, when you take that product, you pickle it, you put it through the time mill and other lines. Having the additional what is 300,000, 400,000 tons of downstream.

That's going to allow probably loading of those downstream lines and obviously a dilution of the cost structure. So it's a very, very important and effective impact to some here in the next three or four or five months.

And just to add to that. I think generally, we believe we are just very, very constructive for 2024 relative to steel demand. And everyone gets a little excited by maybe a little backing off of hot-band pricing here of late. But for us, flat roll continues to be very, very solid. And maybe the macro indicators may not be overly constructive right now. The order input rate in January for us has been incredibly strong.

And we would, as Barry said, suggest that supply chain inventories, not just MSCI or SMU, but just supply chain in general is relatively tight. And imports are not a material factor today and won't be. We're booked out for coated and prepayment, right? It's very, very strong for us. And I think the -- again, when you look at the -- just the hot band pricing because coated, prepaint is all very, very, very strong still.

It's just like recent cycles, and its more emotion than anything else, but you get that steep climb. You have exuberance hence to overshoot the market a little bit, and it just sort of retrenches itself a little bit. And I think that's where we are today. And it's not a signal as it used to be. It's not a signal as the underlying -- the structural underlying demand because there's so little spot material transacted today. Just because you have a slight erosion in hot band price, it doesn't mean to say that that's reflective of where the demand is. So for us, demand is, as I said, very, very solid throughout our sheet mills.

And I also see that long products is in a very, very solid territory. Would like to congratulate the team. They had record earnings and record volumes in 2023. They've done an incredible job. They've changed the commercial approach somewhat. They've expanded their product portfolio, and that's going to support higher through-cycle volumes going forward for the long product platform as well. So I think for us, [indiscernible] quite rosy.

Well, I never do well in Vegas. So I don't think that given a projection is solid projection is perhaps sorry -- perhaps right. But directionally, I do believe, again, that the underlying structural demand is there.

If you look at -- literally the last 18 to 24 months, you've seen these hot band pricing cycles, and they have not been driven by demand. They've been driven by motion, whether it be the threat or the anticipation of high interest rates and inflation and recession and all these sorts of things. They've been emotional pivots as opposed to demand for us. And all we can say is that we do believe strongly that the underlying demand is going to be sustained through the year, and that should support pricing.

We certainly will. And you don't -- because you've got 900,000 tons of just to be clear, of cash need because the yield loss through the system, and when I say yield loss, it's not what we call of loss. This appears is just sort of a circular within the mill, you still only need roughly 650,000 tons of total input, 20% of which is primary.

It's my target, Barry?

And not to complicate the math. But if you think about it in January, we're approaching 75% utilization right now, that's 75% of ultimate even though the team is handcuffed because of the lower power input. So we are quite confident to get to that 80% for the year.

Just from a sort of a product mix, so to speak, the infrastructure growth. On the solar, it's already -- the solar has exploded. Renewables exploded last year, continues to grow dramatically. We were advantaged hugely both structural for the TOR tubes and also for flat roll for the support tubing. We're starting to see -- I don't think we can be specific on how that ramps up.

But directionally, we're starting to see orders from bridge makers currently. And so that's -- the start, at least from my perspective, the start of a ramp-up in spend.

[Indiscernible] The deal just to get the CapEx part, not the whole thing. But no, John -- and Theresa has just mentioned, we have an absolutely incredible team that continues to be innovative. And if you were to -- I don't know, just be with us or be with that team. It's incredible. We have a new digital planning technology that we're exploiting, again, not big dollars, but it's going to be an incredibly, incredibly high-margin niche business.

We have two -- suffice it to say, two product segments that we're not in today in flat roll that we're exploring and they have a couple of innovative things there. So the pipeline in steel is still there, for sure. I think also -- and we've got to walk before we run. But in aluminum, I see that growth kind of paralleling the growth in steel, yes. We get on the front end, make the basic substrate, so to speak. And then from a processing standpoint, for instance, there's a massive, massive amount of the aluminum that gets prepaid today. That's an expertise of ours.

You can see growth and expansion there. So I think you witnessed it, John, almost personally over the years and shared our history, but we've clearly demonstrated the ability to be innovative and grow. I would emphasize grow in a very disciplined, intentional manner. That's the only way you can get the return on invested capital numbers that we achieve.

So both organically, but also through acquisition will continue to be opportunity there. But you will see us remain very, very disciplined, very, very intentional. We're not going to overpay for anything, and we're going to retain the best financial metrics in our industry.

Well, thank you, everyone, and thank you, Holly, and thank you, everyone, on the call. I guess, as John noted, he's a happy shareholder. To be honest, everyone at SDI are happy shareholders because we all are equity holders and as part of the compensation for each and every one of us. Collectively, we do own a reasonable amount of our stock.

And I would just emphasize that we treat your dollars just like they are our own. And we're absolutely focused on continuing to outstrip our competition relative to shareholder value creation through the cycle but we can't do it on our own. So any customers listening at thank you for your support.

We have loyal support, and it takes us through the cycles suppliers can do it without you and got to stress. We have the best metals team in the world. Our people are absolutely phenomenal. Thank you for what you do each and every day. For those that are owners on the call as well. Thank you for your support. Have a great day. Bye-bye.