Mark Stewart
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (GT) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yes. Thanks, Rod. I think what's clear is going back again to the very well thought out Goodyear Forward plan, which was rolled out on November 15. Right? And that is my focus. It's about streamlining the portfolio. It's for us to get to sustainable operational margins of 10%, getting our net leverage to 2, 2.5x by end of '25, and having that sustainable free cash flow that's going to increase our overall financial flexibility.

So specifically, with a whopping two weeks in a day here, I'm right in the middle of this onboarding process. And again, I'm spending the majority of my time and plan to do so in the near-term listening to our team here at Goodyear, both at headquarters, in the plants, our retailers, our customers, meaning in retail, OE and distribution. And it really is looking forward to meeting you guys as well Rod in a different light from the past. Right? But I am deep diving into the operations, going through the functions, the financials to really thoroughly understand the business right now.

And so I'm asking lots of questions, taking lots of notes, continuously reviewing that, especially in this first 30, 60, 90 days to challenge what I think in coming in to gain the understanding from our team. Also to get clarification of things that maybe we can and I can put into some quick win categories and areas that the learnings that I have had from the past as well. So again, it really is about trying to keep that fresh eye look with a hard drive to execution, and it is about speed of execution. It's about us delivering that Goodyear Forward plan.

A couple of the observations I've had in the first couple of weeks, again there's incredible momentum in the Goodyear Forward plan meeting with the teams just as you look to the plans, well thought out, step-by-step timing, ownership, execution. And so that is what I'm here to do, is to help Christina and the rest of the team in terms of helping to lead and guide those initiatives across the finish line Rod.

Thank you.