Martin Schroeter
Kyndryl Holdings, Inc. (KD) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Well, is Tien-Tsin still…

Yes, there you go, Tien-Tsin. We can hear you now. Can you hear us? Thank you.

I did. Yes. Thank you. We had a little -- we had a little audio issue. So let me start, and I'll ask David to comment as well. And again, apologies for the audio issue here. So look, we're 12 months into the focus account work which means we've got a pretty good idea of where we stand customer by customer. And so the decision to -- the decision to reduce the revenue in some of these accounts is pretty well developed. It takes time to execute and it will build over time. So -- and as you know, it's cumulative. So what we get done in the first and the second, for instance, will persist in the third. And on top of that, we'll get more done in the second half. So it will build, the impact will build over time. But I feel -- look, I feel pretty good about our ability to execute on the focus account initiative again like we did in the first year. And I'd say that -- I'd say that two other comments. One, as David mentioned when he talked a bit about the patterns we're seeing, the primary pattern is an expansion of scope. So even if the revenue doesn't come down as much as what we're predicting, we will get the lower margin revenue out over time, and it may get replaced by higher margin revenue. You saw that in everything we've signed since. So -- and that's really what's driving the outperformance last year. It wasn't that we didn't get as much of the lower margin revenue out, it is actually that we're doing better, replacing it with new work, and obviously Kyndryl Consult is growing pretty well within that.

So I feel -- and therefore, by the way, your second part of your question is I don't feel like we've got an exposure in margins even if the revenue doesn't come down at that rate because, again, our customers are demonstrating over and over that they're interested in us expanding the scope that we have with them. So again, I'll ask David to make a comment about how he sees it. But this will build over the year. I feel like with the work now 12 months -- having 12 months of maturity, I think we understand pretty well how this will play out. And again, even if the revenue doesn't come down at this rate, it's probably because we're generating better margins on expanded scope and therefore, it's not a risk to the margin profile for the year. David, would you add to that?

Yes. Look, we're very fortunate Tien-Tsin. Before I start my answer I must make sure you can still hear me?

Okay, good. So look, we're very fortunate that the nature of the work we do is not discretionary. And so we don't see the kind of demand slowdown, the signing slowdown that others may be experiencing. On top of that, where we are moving into new areas like all the work with our partners and our Alliance partners, we've got some catching up to do, right. We're fairly new to the public cloud space with our three big hyperscale partners, as an example. And we were able to sign $1.2 billion in the first year, and we expect that to keep growing but again, we're catching up to where others have been in the past. So the nature of what we do is mission-critical and not discretionary.

The new areas we're going into is an area of tremendous untapped demand for us because of what we do and the demand profile we see is really latent demand, pent-up demand because our customers have been asking us to play a heavier role in how they manage across their hybrid infrastructures and helping them move more workloads -- the important workloads on to cloud environments. And I think all of that is a proof point, as you said, Kyndryl Consult doing really, really well, and there is this latent demand for what we do now that we've entered the ecosystem that's really important to our customers, the one that really represents their future. So we don't -- we haven't experienced it, we don't see it. And again, it's the nature of the work that we do that's nondiscretionary and it's the pent-up demand for us to help customers on these -- the most challenging infrastructure programs given that we now are part of an ecosystem that is where they're moving to. Hopefully, that's helpful.

Yes, thanks Divya. I will also ask David to share his point of view, but let me say a few things. But again, before we start, hopefully, Divya, you can hear me?

Yes, good. Thank you. So look, first and foremost, I think it's important to understand given the role we play in the world and in managing the banking systems, the telecom systems, the supply chains, the airline reservation systems, as those worlds, as those infrastructures, as our customers' environments become more complex it's a massive opportunity for us to help them because these are the systems that have to work all the time. And so whether a customer is accelerating or decelerating a move to public cloud, whether a customer is thinking about -- whether a customer is thinking about or rethinking is it all public versus hybrid, that really represents for us a substantial amount of demand. And we see the world getting more complex. We see the world, we see our customer base trying to take advantage of innovation wherever it may exist.

Right now, there's tremendous interest obviously in AI and tools, which means for us that we help them architect their data in a way that they can get it where they need it. We help them secure it and manage it across that diverse infrastructure. So for us, given again the nature of what we do, the specific opportunity to Kyndryl is driven more by the complexity of what our customers want to create given where they see innovation, given where they see their infrastructure evolving as opposed to a more general macro trend, let's say that a shift to public cloud slows by a few points or accelerates by a few points, our demand is driven and again, I think it's somewhat unique to us. Our demand is driven more by the complexity with which they're dealing and with so few of on an absolute basis, with so few of the really important mission-critical things having been moved as a percentage of the total, we see a long-term demand for us, managing across these diverse infrastructures. But again, I'll ask David to comment as well.

So Divya, let me again give you my two cents and obviously, I'll ask David to comment as well. When you deconstruct or look at the three-A’s as individuals, our ability to expand into the hyperscaler space across the world is pretty evenly distributed because we started from -- really from a standing start over a year ago. And so that $1.2 billion is mixed a lot like our general signings are, U.S. is quite large and etcetera, etcetera. So the Alliance is part of the three-A’s, it is going to be distributed roughly by -- similarly to our existing business. Now having said that, and that some of our countries get a little bit of a faster start and some a little yes, they did. But by and large, that opportunity over time over the medium term is going to look like our business.

Our Advanced Delivery efforts are global in nature. We run a global platform, and therefore those benefits show up -- quite a bit of them show up in our delivery. It's obviously in our delivery centers. We do some local delivery. That mix is always slightly different country by country. But again, it won't look different from the way we're mixed today.

The focus accounts to finish up the three-A’s, the focus accounts are not distributed exactly the way our business is. Yes, we have them everywhere. But the focus accounts and the pace at which they will resolve themselves will show up very heavily in the U.S. They'll show up very heavily in Western Europe. We have focused accounts in Japan, even though it's already quite a profitable business but we will get those fixed. So the focused account impact, the benefit to the focus accounts is over time, is going to show up where our profitability is pressured the most, and that's outside of Japan, that's Western Europe. It's a bit in the U.S. as well. So you'll see from a segment perspective, you'll see the benefits of two of the three-A’s distributed the way our business is today, and you'll see the focus account impact -- the focus account benefits impact Europe and you'll see it impact the U.S. more than Japan. David, anything you would like to add?

So thanks, everybody for joining today. Look, hopefully, you can hear and get a sense of not only how much progress we've made in our first full year on the three-A’s, but also that the three-A’s are what's going to turn this business around in the time frame or maybe even a little bit faster than what we've said in the past. I feel as though we're on or ahead of schedule in executing on each of the three-A’s. So we feel really good about what we've gotten done. We now as we've said, both David and I have said on the call, this is a year of acceleration. We're growing where we want to and we will continue to target and to focus on improving the profitability of this business, and that's what you see in our guidance. Very strong pretax margin expansion, notwithstanding the headwinds that have been imposed in some parts of our business, but very strong pretax margin expansion and really focusing this business on the high-value that we know we create with our customers. So thanks again for joining us. A lot of work left to do, but we're excited about where we are. Thank you, operator.