Michael Kasbar
World Kinect Corporation (WKC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Ben is Mike, thanks for the question. Aviation and marine, as you heard in my prepared comments, have been active for quite a number of years. Land has been a journey. Kinect is kicking in, and we are the same thing with Land, Flyers is great contributions, Lykins, a number of different businesses that we brought into the mix here. Admittedly, this has been a bit of slog. We’ve got, we think a good consolidated team in the mix. So it’s flexing liquid land, flexing our sustainability business. We are seeing activities coming there, certainly enhancing aviation and marine. You never take that for granted. And we’re leveraging aviation, marine.

There’s good amount of cross sale with sustainability. I was suggesting that in my comments. And then it’s cost, it’s continuous cost management culture. Do we need 46 vendors for a particular item? So that continues and getting operating leverage on the platform? So it’s an ongoing work, but certainly looking at land and looking at our sustainability as growth engines, we feel good about that and we feel like we’re in a better position now.

I don't think that you're going to see anything earth-shattering. You never know, but – and the thing is, a lot of the planets need to be aligned. It's not one thing. You have a good amount of slow steaming going on. So certainly it's a perfect way for us to help the market and be able to create value in the marketplace and be able to participate in that value creation. We're not really expecting it's going to be seriously robust. But it's generally positive when there are certain types of dislocation that we can monetize by providing solutions.

So not forecasting it to be robust. But – and the thing now too is, as much as I hesitate to say this, is that we have become a physical participant in the marketplace in very select locations. So while we're still very asset light, that was part of the gambit, right, to become a truly strategic partner to our clients and to be able to fill a gap. We experience some of those dislocations now, but not nearly as much as pure physical players.

Thanks, Ben.

I think that's fine. We'll pick that in New York.

Again, I think volumes are pretty stable now. I think last quarter some folks asked about our volumes and we felt, and maybe predicted accurately that we hopefully hit a bottom and we rebounded from that bottom in the fourth quarter. So I guess we were generally correct, and we think at this point, volumes are pretty stable. There seems to be some upside opportunity, but not necessarily a really big number. As Mike alluded to earlier, margins are still a bit ahead of historical averages, but considering the interest rate environment we're in, that makes complete sense. So assuming none of us expect interest rates to drop dramatically, regardless of which Fed Governor you speak to in 2024.

So I think that storyline will remain as it is today, which means that it should be not necessarily a play on words, pretty steady sailing for 2024 and I think the run rate we're at is a reasonable run rate to expect, and there can always be some upsides and downsides. But the volatility factor that we benefited from is really behind us now. And now it's pure blocking and tackling and generating returns that achieve the margin thresholds that we set for our team.

Yes. It's generally been opportunistic. We always try to buy back I would say at least 40 million or so, which keeps our share count steady, which means it's offsetting the dilutive impact of employee awards. Last couple of years we exceeded that a bit as our stock was definitely not where we wanted it to be. So we bought back a bit more.

So I think we'll always be in that ballpark. There may be an exceptional year, plus or minus, but I think we've been pretty consistent there, and we expect that we'll remain generally consistent somewhere in that range depending upon our cash flows, stock price, market environment, competing priorities for capital, et cetera.

Great question. So we made a small acquisition in Michigan of basically several cardlocks, similar to the cardlock activity we picked up with a Flyers acquisition. And I’m happy to ask you that’s a great example of a completely synergistic, easy to integrate business opportunity, albeit it was small, where we literally integrate, I’ll get shot for saying this by people on our team overnight. Right. Because all we have to do is add those cardlocks to our network, which is basically through the use of technology, and ensure they’re getting fueled through a local provider. And that’s it. We picked up, I think, two employees in that old transaction, and we got to pick up basically all of their GP. We would do that every day if we could, and we’re always looking at opportunities like that. That was one that worked out for us in the fourth quarter.

It could be. So, I think it’s fair to say that you’ve got a product, a commodity that is not an ample supply. The demand for it, it does vary. There was a time when we had plenty of sustainable aviation fuel and there was a lot of interest. But when you start to talk about the price, that interest disappeared. You are seeing some economies of scale come through. But I think to answer your question directly, the answer is yes.

So you know that, you know that yes, simply the answer is yes. And, sometime the amount of effort required to source it, certainly in the early days, but you are seeing the distribution, the production become more mainstream.

Many of these products, not all of them are drop in fuel. So they drop right into our distribution platform. And certainly with our end users, there are some products that require a little bit of educational aspect to it, and we’ve got the expertise to be able to do that. But yes, Pavel, they are definitely attractive from that dimension.

Well, thank you very much to everybody listening today, our supporters, analysts following our stock, and certainly our investors. We feel like we’ve got a far greater focus and good momentum in the organization.

We look forward to seeing you all in New York to talk some more about our business. And thanks again to our colleagues, behalf of the management team, and all of the folks that we work with every day. Thanks for doing what you do. We’ll see you all in a quarter. Take care. We’ll see you in New York. Take care. Bye-bye.

