Michael Mahoney
Boston Scientific Corporation (BSX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure. Thanks, Robbie, for the comments. I'll start with the WATCHMAN, just an excellent platform with the growth of 23% for the quarter, 25% for the full year. Terrific work. And as you know, that product gets larger and larger for us. I had to cut the script back because the clinical investments we're making with WATCHMAN will go on for a while, and we can touch on those if interested. But as you know, we continue to exceed likely 90% share in the US. We'll be rolling out WATCHMAN Flex Pro, you know, more as a percent of our total mix in the US in the first quarter and throughout the year. So you'll continue to see that, which is a differentiated platform. So with the clinical work that we're doing and the WATCHMAN Flex Pro and the Steerable Sheath likely to be in the market in 2024 as well, we continue to expect to gain share, and we aim to significantly widen the market opportunity through these clinical trials. So full steam ahead with WATCHMAN. On FARAPULSE, maybe the most exciting day I've had in my career at Boston Scientific with this platform that we have, based on the results that we've seen in Europe and the enthusiasm globally for our PFA platform. And to receive approval today was really exciting. We did anticipate a first-quarter approval for FARAPULSE. And as you might expect, we expect the impact of FARAPULSE to be, you know, somewhat in the first quarter and much more significant as the year goes on as we work with contracting with hospitals, getting on contract and getting the capital approved and rolling it out. But we have a lot of experience in doing that through our European success that we've enjoyed. Our team is trained. We have installation team. We continue to invest in it. So we're really excited about aiming to disrupt the EP market with what we think is the premier PFA platform.

Yeah, so Ken can help me out. But obviously China and Japan represent significant opportunities in the EP market. They're the largest markets that we compete in -- in those countries and we currently are under-scaled, particularly in China. In Japan, we built a lot of momentum over the last, call it, 18 months with our POLARx launch. So in Japan, you know, that grew, I don't know, I think over 40%, our EP business. And so we have a more scaled commercial team capabilities in Japan. And the eventual approval in the second half of this year in Japan with FARAPULSE will really be, you know, the next leg of the growth stool in Japan for us. So a lot of confidence there. The market in China may be even bigger. We're a bit more under-scaled in China, so we'll be making a lot of investments there. We have a brand new leader. We're excited about in China to run our EP business under June Chang. So we'll be making additional commercial investments, clinical investments, and hope to have approval in the second half of the year in China. So those will be nice growth drivers for us in '24, more significant in 2025. And AGENT, Ken, do you want to comment a bit more on FARAPULSE? Dr. Stein?

Thanks, Joanne

Thanks, Larry. Starting with FARAPULSE, really very proud of the global supply chain team and what they've done over the past 18 months in the FARAPULSE Group that we originally acquired a while ago. But they've done a tremendous job in building capabilities to supply this for the US launch and to expand in Europe, and eventually Asia, as we just highlighted. So we are now significantly improved our catheter and console supply. We opened numerous centers in Europe in the fourth quarter and we're ready to go. So we, at this point, don't anticipate supply being an issue to continue to support Europe or to facilitate the US launch, given the capabilities and investments that we've made in approvals to manufacture in multiple locations. So great work by the supply chain team. And we're ready to launch this in the US. On ACURATE Neo2, as I mentioned in the earnings script, maybe just two overall points. We continue to do very well with ACURATE Neo2 in Europe, implanting, I think, the number 70,000, and continuing to grow faster than the market in Europe. And we are on track for what we have is called Prime in Europe in 2025. So that continues to move forward as planned. With respect to the trial, as I mentioned in the script, based on the interim analysis, we now need to wait for the full one year follow up of the 1,500 patients. And as a result of that, we don't -- we will not be receiving approval for ACURATE Neo2 in 2024. And we will wait until likely near the end of 2024 for the full readout of the ACURATE IDE study to determine our path forward.

Sure, Vijay. Thanks.

Lauren is not leaving the company. She will be around. She'll be around. We're still going to see her.

Okay, well.

We'll work our way in, right, once in a while. So we're excited for John to come in and Lauren to move out. No, excited for Lauren to go to Urology. Yes. So to answer your question, we are fully committed to the 8% to 10% organic growth CAGR over the '24 to '26 period that we provided in Investor Day. Absolutely no change in that outlook. And pleased with the '23 performance, as you know, where we grew 12%. So absolutely no change to those financial goals. You know, ACURATE continues to do well in Europe. It's a product that's used every day by many European physicians and we're excited about getting the larger size approved there. We are disappointed that we didn't get ACURATE over the goal line for approval in 2024. So at this point, we need to wait until the full data sets been followed up for a year and read out likely before the end of this year in 2024. And we'll take it from there in terms of the US launch. But we are disappointed we're not going to launch that really very end of this year and into next, but absolutely no change to our financial guidance that we gave at Investor Day.

Janar, Are you able to hear us okay?

Great. Dr. Sathananthan is our Chief Medical Officer, as you know, for ICT and Structural Heart. Maybe he could comment a bit.

Dr. Stein, do you want to take a shot on it?

Thank you.

