Michael Miebach
Mastercard, Inc. (MA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Right. Let me take the China question first and we come back to the conversion topic that you raised. So needless to say, we're thrilled about China. So this is a -- it's a massive economy, and we feel we're well positioned to serve it. As I said in my remarks at the beginning, we feel we're uniquely positioned to put into the hand of Chinese consumers a solution -- a seamless solution that works domestically as well as when they travel. That's not unique. There's another competitor that has that kind of a proposition. But we do have the much better acceptance network to provide an end-to-end solution that works well.

On that basis, we're busy right now with our partners in China with the banks with acquirers, issuers and so forth, to discuss rolling out on the issuing side as well as on the acceptance side for six months, as you rightly said.

Now for years, we have been very active in China on the cross-border side. And those are strong relationships with the same exact banks. And we're just -- I mentioned too, with ICBC and Bank of Communications, we're just launching new products. So the fact that we are well positioned today with the banks gives us an edge here on moving forward at speed.

As I also said, going live within the first six months doesn't mean that we're live everywhere, and we have to build this out over time to get full opportunity in the medium to the long term. And on the conversion piece, just to know, for the U.S., we saw -- I mentioned this earlier for Webster and for Citizens, conversion is starting. Some of the big conversions in Europe have already completed. Sachin talked about the lapping for NatWest and so forth. So Sachin, if there's anything else?

Dan, you just touched on some of the key things to watch out for. But this is no different than us monitoring fiscal monetary policy reactions by central banks and governments. So those are all things that affect consumer sentiment, potentially affect consumer spending. So we'll just have to stay close to what that is. Our discipline around these things is to do some solid scenario planning and making sure our playbook in terms of managing our financial responsibility responsibly is up to date. Certainly, the last three years have had no shortages of such challenges, and we adapted quickly.

More specifically to the points that you mentioned, elections happen regularly. So there is nothing dramatically new in 2024. And geopolitical conflicts, they've been around, and they keep going. And that is something we'll watch what is the impact on energy prices and various downstream into the broader economy. Yet again, our Economics Institute is keeping a focus on that. So nothing very specific. That's why we kept it relatively high level. But these days, one has to just take a look left and right all the time.

So let me kick off on that. If you split out the value-added services here, you have our other services, which Sachin touched on earlier, for example, our real-time payment assets and things like that. The thing that we have historically focused on here in this space is our cyber and intelligence solutions, fraud solutions, and the data insights and analytics solutions. So if you think about how that flywheel talks about, I talked about the powerful cycle earlier on.

So more payments that need to be kept safe, more payments throughout more data, which drive more data analytics inside. That is the underlying kind of secular trend, which is pretty closely related to the secular shift as well. So that is the baseline of growth here.

And then you look at some of the more specific growth drivers here. For example, in data analytics, in that group, we also have our personalization solution. So everybody is trying to engage their consumers at this point. That is on the banking side. It's on the merchant side and here coming in with a solution that provides the right offer through the right channel at the right time to drive through that clutter.

We have the number 1 personalization company that we acquired two years ago. That is one of the drivers we expect some big growth there. You look at the other hand on the cyber and security solutions, digital identity. An authentication solution today, nobody likes passwords, you're in a situation where you have to end up making trade-offs between simplicity and security when it comes to digital payments and with our technology, we find ways to go around that effectively, driving down fraud. At the same time, ensure that there's low abandonment rates.

So biometric solutions, I talked about them earlier, is one of those examples. So across these two portfolios, C&I and DNS, cyber analytics and data insights, that’s where we see the big growth and the big demand. Other solutions, real-time payments, we have a strong position there. We talked about this a couple of quarters ago, where we said we are in the markets in which we are, and we’re driving the scale volumes and the reference to our strategic partnership with TCH to show that we continue on that front. So those are kind of the key drivers that we see here. We feel this is a uniquely differentiated portfolio, and that’s in great demand.

Right. So let me do that. I just gave you the headlines on that. So specifically, within that, there's a whole set of solutions from biometric to identity events where we have an ability to provide an identity confidence score to one of our customers and saying, this person has lived at the address before and here is their previous employment. So with this -- with a certain level of confidence, we can say, this is the person. All this stuff is kind of happening behind the scenes. That is the approach that we're taking. But it's not just our identity data. We are combining this with open banking. We're trying to find use cases where this really makes a difference. For example, an account opening. So we're taking our open banking technology in our Finicity footprint here in the United States, all the way up to 90% of our deposit accounts in this market. And we're taking our digital identity solution into a premium account owner verification and account opening solution.

Those are the kind of examples where we see we’re truly differentiated. At the highest level, it’s before and after the transaction, we’re driving value through digital identity. We feel this is absolutely central to the digital economy. And that’s why we put it in the new network because there are people who have identity data and there are people who want to use identity data. We don’t want to hold it. We’re sitting somewhere in the middle, and we are essentially the trusted partner that can prove one way or another if a person is the person they claim to be. Minimal use of data, permission data.

Right. So starting with Finicity and then we have the corresponding set of capabilities through our IR acquisition in Europe. We're also building out connectivity in Australia. Those are the three regions where we're focused. And open banking does a number of things. Essentially, what we see is a set of use cases here that, that rise to the top and everything that you could do with open banking. In the end, there's this big vision about Open Data, where people can use their data footprint. Small businesses can use the data footprint for getting access to better services. But for now, what's really rising at the top is account opening, the example that I already gave.

Open Banking for payments, I come to that for a moment -- in a moment, open banking for lending and for small business in particular. So those are kind of the three categories that we feel are particularly relevant right now for payments, it's really interesting, to your point. Is this a volume driver? It could be. Because the connectivity that we have here, what we're trying to do is facilitate payments, for example, in non-carded use cases as we have the pay by bank solution in the United States in partnership with JS Bank.

So we hope to see significant volume growth out of that. That's the whole idea. And that builds on our experience with pay by bank in the U.K. This is a somewhat different approach here in the U.S., where our open banking capabilities are the true differentiators. So use cases that matter. That’s the focus. And out of that, we hope to see not only API clicks on account opening, but also payment volume coming through.

That was a second part of the question. My team is just reminding me. Acceptance growth regionally. I mean it comes to the answer actually that Sachin gave earlier where we talked a little bit about payments growth and the regional comparison. So when you think beyond the United States, we see a tremendous growth opportunity. Here in the United States, you would say it’s more new use cases and verticals, and it’s more generally and broader acceptance across the payments landscape in the rest of the world. There’s even significant geographic opportunities to grow. Take Japan, for example. So it’s a country that is what the government has put out a stated policy to drive a cashless Japan. So tremendous upside there. We talked about China earlier on, where we’re investing heavily in acceptance footprint. So I would say it’s leaning a little more on the international side, but here in the U.S., we’re very busy going for use cases and verticals.

Let me start off with that question. First of all, I do want to underline what you just said. It is a source of differentiated growth for us. We've had a great run in Europe. And it's a combination of share growth, but it's also driven by the ways that we find to go after the accelerated secular shift that we saw on the back end of COVID. Countries like Germany really driving up contactless usage, just to give you one example. So overall, Europe has been firing on all cylinders for us.

And I come back to the growth algorithm that we laid out for payments, which applies very much in Europe. So European economies will do what they do, but we will continue to focus on share gain, but we will also be very busy to take the share gains that we've already had and turn that into profitable volume for us. Conversions driving that. We had a question on that earlier. So that's driver number one.

And then going into new flows in Europe, there is opportunity there as well. If you look at alternative payment systems, everything that's going on in Europe, clearly, through PSD3 and so forth, there's a lot of movement in Europe that we will stay on top as we look ahead into that. Differentiated assets in bill pay in the Nordics and so forth. So we have a pretty broad footprint to participate in all the drivers in Europe.

In terms of Services, the services has been strong in Europe for a long time. Our advisers on our consulting business has been a winner for us in Europe for the longest time. And if you look at some of these big wins, that we've talked about, they all have a significant contribution of services. In fact, I would say, oftentimes, they are one of the reasons that we win those deals. So nothing dramatically different there. I think Europe has caught up on secular trend in digitization and we're firing on all cylinders. We have -- we're fully invested in Europe.

As you know, one of the big topics in Europe is European sovereignty, and we are deeply invested in Europe with our efforts, and we're engaging with -- in Brussels in the nation states and so forth, which is very important for us to do to be a partner on their journey.

I should say, earlier when I was talking about the payment algorithm, I said that we are putting great focus on our financial discipline. And we do it with revenues in mind and with services revenue in mind. So yes, it needs to add up to the overall net revenue yield, as Sachin just said. But I’m telling you, we don’t want to win every deal. We want to win the deals we want to win, and we’re pretty disciplined about it.

Right. So I think both questions, your question and the previous question hit on an important point there. There is a particular point of interest for us at the intersection of open banking and payments. It enables -- the open banking connectivity enables us to go after use cases that we otherwise wouldn't be able to go after. So here's additional data that is available that you can then combine in combination with an underlying RTP rail to make a profitable proposition for a customer, which is exactly what Chase Pay-by-Bank is. Basically, you debit your customer when there's a balance, and that is what the open banking connectivity tells you.

So that's a good solution. If we look broadly around the world, Pix, UPI in India, FedNow, there's a bunch of real-time payment systems. And those are the kind of rails where we have experience. We have connectivity. In some, we operate them ourselves. So that is exactly what we're looking at as one of the assets and the propositions that we will bring together for our customers.

Now, more broadly speaking, when you look at Pix, when you look at UPI, one other thing to keep in mind is, here’s public sector doing a good job in pulling in more participants in the overall digital economy so we can come in with our solutions, our real-time payment solutions, our card-based solutions, but they’re basically extending the digital economy to create a tide that kind of lifts everybody’s boats, financial inclusion being the headline. So that’s something to consider. Somewhere in between, there are points that we will manage very carefully as in when these systems grow and they provide alternatives to our solutions that we compete and provide the best solution to consumers and to our customers.

On the fraud side, on ease of use, a lot of these systems don’t have all of these functionalities. So those are things that we focus on. So we’re focused on providing the best choice to our customers. We don’t mind the competition, but we actually see quite a bit of opportunity for us to use these rails for the open banking type of solution that you just asked about. So interesting space, and it drives the overall economic growth, digital economic growth.

We have time for just one more, Brianna.

Right. So first of all, the strategic relationship here in the U.S. with the Clearinghouse is important to note. Back when in 2016, '17, real-time payments really took off. This is when we invested in VocaLink and VocaLink was a partner with the Clearinghouse at the time. So a strong and more strategic renewal here is a big statement, and it speaks to our position in real-time payments. 10 out of the top 50 GDP countries, we either operate, are providing software and services to the real-time payment system. So it's real. It's there as the name indicates, and it's carrying a lot of volume for us in itself. That's an interesting business. But it's much more than that. It's much more than that as we're talking to various players, including ones that I mentioned about new applications that come on top of that.

Coming right back to the Chase Pay-by-Bank example, here is access to rails on one hand and then a set of additional data that turns a simple payment that gets money from A to B to something that's a value-add payment. That is where we're going to go. And these use cases will play out in a somewhat different way. It is obviously always our interest to find global solutions, but it's also -- this is a rather more geographic specifically driven space. So we'll have to see where that all lands. So we keep that in mind, which is why we're not driving into many more markets right now. We're the most critical markets and here we're staying very close to where that is going. But it's applications and it's scaling volumes in the markets that we're in, it's where the focus is.

Well, as always, thank you for your support to Mastercard. Thank you for listening to Sachin and me, and thank you to everybody at Mastercard for making all this work. We'll speak to you in one quarter. It's also unusual to note this is on a Wednesday today. I don't think we ever had that before. Certainly, for me, this is the first Wednesday. We'll see how we mix it up next time. Speak to you in a quarter. Thank you, and bye-bye.

