Michael Manley
AutoNation, Inc. (AN) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

So John, it's probably a combination of all of the above. If I think about our franchise business firstly, we have a penetration in the vehicle parks that were responsible for our areas of operation that are franchises represent probably around 50% plus minus. And what we know is that customers move on to other sources for that service, when the vehicles get seven years old or they're 25 miles beyond the radius.

So there's a lot of opportunity within the territories that we have. And then we're providing channels and access to our customers who would have migrated to a different source for their servicing and repairs through things, such as our mobile service, which, as you know, is a new addition to us. So I think partly in terms of our installed assets, we have sufficient bay capacity. We saw -- from my memory I think it was a 5% or 6% increase in our technicians during the period. There is opportunity for us to continue to grow that, adding services onto it, and then we'll backfill with mobile services for those customers that don't, for whatever reason moved away from the franchise environment. So that's going to be a big focus for us this year.

There's plenty of opportunity. It's not easy to unlock, because once a customer is migrated, they obviously form a relationship, and that leads me to the last thing, and that is we have a fantastic brand. I think last time we checked our brand, which we do relatively regularly. It was the most known automotive brand in the United States. And I think we can do a better job of communicating all of the products and services to our customers, to help them understand that we can increasingly look after a broader set of needs that they have, not just for themselves, but also in their family.

No, absolutely. As Tom mentioned, I think one of the things that, as we came into 2023, our inventory levels were very low, and we felt that we missed out on some of the marketplace. We put in place a number of initiatives middle of last year through the end of last year to enable us to source the vehicles that we need, and we did that very, very effectively.

At the same time, I think some of the market dynamics were changing. One of the things that had increased dramatically during the COVID period was the percentage mix of vehicles above say, $35,000 and Tom gave you the mix. And we're seeing those customers who maybe came into the high end of the used car market because they couldn't get new, now returning back to the new car market with lower transaction prices and more incentives to manufacturers. And what we need to be is very, very agile to make sure that as the market changes, and I think it will continue to change, that we are ahead of those mix changes.

And we have some work to do. We did -- we started that work in -- before the end of last year, continued through January. I think that work will be largely completed by the end of Q1, very early Q2. So in my mind, it's transitory. The good news is that each one of those unit sales comes with phenomenal CFS performance and obviously is going straight into our after-sales database for us to be able to look after them. So every customer comes now with -- from our perspective, with a great opportunity not just with a sale.

Yes, I think that's a very -- I think that's an achievable number for sure, yes.

Thanks, John.

Yes, thanks, Daniel. Well, even though -- and I mentioned this in my opening commentary, until the time we're seeing some increases in terms of retail incentive rates and leasing back up to 23%. We're still not at the levels that we had seen before. And I think as we begin to see inventory build, we will see continued action in that area from the OEMs leasing in my view by the end of this year, early next year, we'll be back to pre-pandemic levels. And I think we've seen much more subsidized finance with obviously with the interest rates that we have and that will continue as we get deep into 2024.

When I think about overall days of supply obviously, it's very different depending on the manufacturers and the brand partners that we have, but clearly still well below in many instances, the level we saw. And from my point-of-view, as the industry develops this year, I think we will truly see hopefully, how the manufacturers are thinking about the balance of their inventory, and prevailing market conditions because we talked a lot about this when we were deep in the pandemic. I think this year we're going to see how each OEM is going to address that and some will be more disciplined, some will be less.

Yes, Rajat. The way that we're thinking about this is, obviously in what I would call our core businesses. The things that we've put in place over the last few years continues to have I think clear benefits. Our SG&A also includes some of the investments that we've been making progressively in the last two years. So the percentage that we see doesn't represent the core businesses in sales. But I think the range that we sit in now is the range that we're going to continue to target going forward. And it will fluctuate, as I said, based upon the additional investments that we are making, for example, in mobile services, for example, in our parts commerce business as we grow those businesses. So that's kind of my view on SG&A at this time.

No, but it's also true to say that, our conversations around the basis for people's valuations are heavily pointed in the last 12 months and trading conditions in our view moving forward. And as we move frankly throughout last year and as we move further into this year, obviously the TTM is going to reflect the reality of the fact that there's a normalization in margins and ultimately it will impact values. And that's something we're very much looking for and something that we're talking to people about. But as Tom said, at this moment in time, obviously, people are holding on as much as they possibly can to 2022.

So the work that [indiscernible] has been doing with his team shows us that, even though the frequency of service and repair in our -- so let me say service. I'll come back to repair comment in a minute. Drops loyalty goes up fairly significantly. And the time that the vehicle is in the shop goes up significantly. So as we were thinking about this transition to electrified vehicles, we were very concerned as many people were about to drop-off from the parts and services that hasn't been what we've experienced so far for those two reasons.

In terms of repair, obviously, the profile of that is changing. Some of the repairs now have done remotely. And we really I think are still looking at that and learning about that. But at this moment in time, if we look at the population of our customers and their vehicles, the combination of higher loyalties and longer time in shop is outweighing has been better than our expectation. Let me put it that way.

Yes, absolutely. Well, we've rebounded RepairSmith, which was not unexpected that is now AutoNation Mobile Services. It's integrated -- it's progressively being integrated alongside AN USA because as you know, many standalone used car sales don't have an after-sales provision. And in the same way as we aligned AutoNation Finance with AN USA, we were aligning RepairSmith to be the provider of refurbishment and service maintenance warranty needs for those customers.

We've opened up now our relationships with multiple fleet customers across the country and introducing mobile services to those guys and expanding the products that the fleet offers. I would say at this moment in time, there's a lot of work for us to do. That integration work will probably continue through the balance of this year. We see a lot of growth that we now need to drive up our returns.

I think it goes back to Tom's comments, I thought he summed it up really well. We are looking at opportunities that come across. That's been a very, very consistent way. We liked what we saw with Pendragon at the price that we had indicated in the marketplace. And at that point we thought it was good, but clearly that move was not for us. So I would tell you that we have an eye to a number of opportunities at this point in time.

Yes. Well, the good news is that, if you think about our geographic footprint, we are in -- we are largely -- the vast majority of our business who is in states, where you can operate full 12 months without certainly six plus months. But I take your point. So obviously, services, maintenance and repair work is given. We are in the process of expanding to tires. We are in the process of expanding to glass. And as you know, we have a very good business in our collision centers and that will include calibration. So there are multiple things that these bands so quick can do.

And that's effectively what we're doing. We had already done some pilot work on glass which was successful, in some of our Texas businesses, so that's going to be expanded throughout this year. Tires, there is a demand for tires, which can easily be done from a properly equipped van. So there is quite expansion in terms of products that you -- that we can offer. And as you can imagine, as we grow AutoNation USA and they are as successful as they have been in terms of CFS, many of those CFS products are associated with extended warranties or maintenance contracts, and we're now able to completely fulfill them ourselves rather than those customers may be migrating to a competitor to have that work done.

So I'm very excited about mobile services. It's a business that we -- as I said centering in those markets where we already have density in a customer base is now associated clearly with our brand, which I think does bring a degree of credibility, which is important when you think about around timing effort on someone's drive and I think it will help us. So let's see how we develop it this year.

I'm not seeing any changes from my perspective. I think we're coming into traditional months where all of the domestics will focus heavily on their own trucks. That's normal, that I think is something that will continue this the different seasons in the year is not going to change. I think that if you think about the percentage of sales by vehicle segment, it is natural that those OEMs who have a very high percentage of sales in trucks, whether it's medium or heavy are going to have a higher day supply purely because of the selection required. And even though the length of the day supply has increased, it is significantly lower than it's been historically.

Yes, Doug, welcome. Lot of moving pieces in that question, as you know, one of the things that, I think we have to really watch closely this year is what's happening with battery-electric vehicles and hybrid. And as you know, all of the OEMs at this moment in time are working towards a set of GHG targets, which vary by state and that may well change depending on what happens later this year, and as we move forward. But there is and has been a significant impact on margin as battery electric vehicles have continued to grow in terms of the share that they represent. I mean their increased share roughly doubled from the end of 2022 through to 2023. And as a result of that, that had an impact on the combustion. I will not talk about margins, obviously.

So the answer to your question is, truthfully, I expect a return to very similar margins to 2019. And by the way, that would include the impact in my view of battery-electric vehicles and hybrid electric vehicles. How that happens is very much going to depend on, how the OEMs are thinking about the mix of the beds, the hybrids and the combustion engines through the balance of this year and how they're going to achieve that target. It's a very -- it is not an easy question to answer, so that's my best effort. But I would say what we are doing in our business is to really focus on those areas where we have more control and more opportunity and those areas CFS, used, as we talked about, obviously after-sales and how we can provide more products and services to the customers that we have won over many, many years of being in the marketplace.

And then to make sure that our new vehicles, we're not an outlier, either with lower margins or poor market-share. We obviously control our costs, because to a large extent how the new vehicle market developed as you can completely understand even though we're a very large player in this industry. We're still a tiny player in terms of the total new vehicle market. So I think we have to be realistic about the things we can do.

Yes, based on the margins we saw developed last year. That's exactly how I would think about it.

Yes. Thanks for the question, Colin. Yes, in my commentary I was referencing a little bit higher lease penetration in the CFS comments. I think on balance, leases are accretive to what we're trying to accomplish, yes. I mean maybe you sell a little bit fewer products on a CFS perspective, but it's not massive. I mean it is outweighed by the fact that we have a shot at getting the used car once it comes off-lease. It also helps with vehicle affordability. We have typically third party finances taking a residual risk. So it's a net-net a win-win for us on leasing. And I would think of it that way, we've been able to manage through with CFS over the years with higher leasing volume.

Yes, the answer to your question is that, it's pretty much there for some of our OEMs.

You're welcome.

So firstly, thanks. Thanks for your questions. I'm just going to touch on the margin question that I've received earlier. One of the things that I think is relevant and important as you think about our performance going forward. AN USA is a valuable addition to our Company, our organization, particularly where we have areas of significant density. Where used vehicle margin does not perform in the same way for obvious reasons as our franchise businesses. So when you think about $1,800 that we discussed, don't think about that in the context of AN USA.

The way that they source their vehicles is very different. The way that they can attach manufacturer and OEM programs is significantly different. So their whole business model, including the capital invested is very, very different. So as you think about my comments on $1,800 margin, make sure you factor in the impact of AN USA on our average margins going forward, because they will not and have not been at that level. And I don't anticipate that any time going forward.

But with that said, when I think about 2024 just but it's clearly going to as have its normal mix of headwinds and tailwinds. But for me, after a very significant year in 2023 a planned leadership transition, I'm feeling positive about our development as we enter this year. We have Jeff Parent joined our Group, as you know, as a Chief Operating Officer. Tom came in last year. CMO joined us, Rich Lennox, who joined earlier in 2023. So from my point of view, our leadership team, that year of transition, which was planned is now complete. And I think all of the members that we've added bring vast experience to AutoNation.

And these guys along with their colleagues who sit on our executive leadership team certainly going to help us build on our success and position our Company well for the future. And really, that enables us, I think, to really look at how the investments that we've made in various parts of our businesses are performing and understand how we can get to a period of growth in some of those and in others, how we can make sure that we're driving up our margins.

So with that, thank you for joining the call. We'll see how the year goes, and I look forward to talking to many of you between now and most of you next quarter.