Nick Zarcone
LKQ Corporation (LKQ) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hey, good morning.

Thank you, Michael.

Thanks, Craig.

Yes. We've got -- so, Bret, I'll start and then if you want to chime in, Justin. So we've identified within the $55 million some procurement synergies. It's less than a $10 million number, as far as the overall opportunities on that portion of it that we have been already active talking back and forth with our European operations in driving some of that. And it's been real small thus far as far as the opportunity goes, getting into the P&L, but it is progressing nicely. So, Justin, I don't know if you want to add anything.

Yes. You recall that when we announced the transaction back in February 2023, one of the opportunities we saw actually related to European makes and models, because today, up in Canada, that cohort of cars represents 10% of the car park. But bumper to bumper historically has distributed almost zero product for European makes, models. And we know somebody who knows a lot about the European marketplace, and that's where the focus will be to bring in product lines to service that 10% of the market up in Canada.

Yes. So our primary focus right now, Bret, is on the remanufacturing of the batteries, taking a battery that's not operating at normal levels, taking out the cells that are defective, putting in new cells and getting that battery back on the road, essentially extending the life of the powertrain. We have -- as we noted last year we're talking with some third parties about recycling not where we would be operating facilities, but where we could be a partner because nobody has access to the batteries. None of the big folks trying to do the recycling really have access to the supply chain. And with our salvage operations, we are the perfect entity to help partner. So we are taking a hard look at key partnerships that could help us move forward on the recycling side. But we would not be necessarily owning and operating large recycling facilities.

Well, we certainly thank you for your time and attention this morning and for a productive call, a good set of questions.

Just a couple of key dates for everyone to keep in the back of their mind. First, our first quarter call is going to be on Tuesday -- Tuesday, April 23. Normally, we host our calls on Thursday, but this year, that week in April is an overlap with our Annual Leadership Conference in North America, which begins on Thursday, the 25th. So Q1 reporting will be on Tuesday, April 23.

Second, we'd like everyone to mark their calendars for our 2024 Investor Day, and that's going to take place on September 10 and will be held at our North American headquarters down in Nashville, Tennessee, so April 23 and September 10.

And with that, I'd like to thank everybody on the call for your time and attention. And as always, I extend and my sincere thanks to the 49,000 strong LKQers who make it happen every day. Take care, everyone.