Pat Bowe
The Andersons, Inc. (ANDE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Ben.

Maybe I'll add on to that in a very good point. I think the thing is as I look back at this last year, we completed four bolt-on acquisitions, albeit smaller two are in the pet ingredients segment. And we've also invested in our food ingredients business as well as doing improvements in our ethanol plants. So those are all to structure our business to make it stronger in the long run. And those really don't aren't dependent on ag cycle or particular export moves et cetera. So I would like to think that we have 50 plus profit centers in this kind of broad portfolio in North American ag. And that's about serving our customers, right? So that whether it be food, feed or fuel, non-food whether it's all for oat milk production, or corn for chip production or pet food.

And then in our big three customers cattle, swine, poultry those are critical customers that are very consistent in North America. And then of course, in the fuel industry with ethanol and now are these feedstocks, we're positioned to really service those customers. And that's where we are targeting our investments. And I think it's important now to be really well poised with a strong balance sheet to be able to invest for the long term especially, as we look to make our ethanol plants lower CI. So I think we're in a really good position to invest in these key verticals. It can lead to long term growth for the company.

Sure. Very good points. And I'll start off and then maybe I'll turn it over to Bill who's very close to this. So I think for us it's important to think about this. As mentioned earlier, how to position our business regardless of the cycle. If it's a big export period or big high soybean crush or corn conversion to ethanol margins, I think the consistent thing for us is to make sure your assets are very strong and well positioned. We've talked about this in ethanol. We feel our plants are very large and efficient with modern technologies want to continue to invest in those. And now as we mentioned, we're looking at carbon sequestration of those three Eastern plants.

Our Western plant would need to be a pipeline play, but our three Eastern plants are well suited for geology to be able to do that, that's going to be well positioned for the long term for a potential South play. So we'll want to make sure we invest properly to do that. And in our grain business, we've really diversified across a broad array of products right which we've talked about from feed to different -- feeding a different animals in North America as well as different food ingredients. We've improved some of our food corn capability last year.

So we're trying to do those things aren't reliant for example on a big export market because exports have slowed in North America with Brazil really coming on strong supply in China. So we want to position ourselves to be able to be successful, whether it's a big bull grain market or a softer grain market. So we have a big crops. We talked a couple of years ago about the need to have two or three crop cycles of good harvest to get back to a balance S&D. And that's what's happened now. We had a big South American production and then a good North American production this year. So we're set up very well now from a global balance sheet on grains. But as you well know this can change quickly with the weather conditions changing or some geopolitical issues. So I think the bottom line we just wanted to stay very well positioned and continue to deploy capital in areas that we for long-term growth and Bill can probably update more about the macro on grain and ethanol.

Maybe I'll add onto that Ben, just to frame it up a little bit for people's background. Our four plants are three Eastern plants in Indiana, Ohio and Michigan. We feel have favorable geology to be able to conduct carbon sequestration. Two of those plants today we already capture CO2 for beverage grade use.

And so, we're prioritizing where we think we can get the quickest bang for our buck with sequestration investment, and also to position ourselves long-term to be very efficient on our making investments in our energy centers and making them lower costs as well as capture some lower CI in our combined heat and power projects.

So we've been successful with those already. We have combined heat power capacity at our plants. We want to continue to beef that up, because our strategic strategy is basic that we think that the larger scale highly efficient modern plants that have really good transportation economics and can have a lower CI score, our sequestration will be the long-term winners and it's just kind of that simple. So that's where we're positioning our plants to be.

Our one plant in Iowa will be part of a pipeline project whatever that would come to pass just like lined up with other plants in Iowa. So, we think we're in a good position on a relative basis to competitors and we just need to execute against that, and we're doing the proper investments.

I'll start and Bill has more expertise here on that. We started this a trading desk for RD feedstocks at the beginning of this industry. And of course, we had our cornerstone of our own corn oil to be positioned. But we've been a very successful partner with a lot of people both on the sell side and the buy side, and really I've gotten to know these markets well and have a really crackerjack team, that's doing a great job here. And we've grown very fast. As Brian mentioned our growth rates well, over £1 billion. We set a target to be £2 billion by 2025. We feel that's achievable.

We've looked at acquisitions in this space. We haven't found one that fits our real well with us, but we'll continue to look for opportunities, especially in the lower CI feedstocks, which is on the fats and greases and used cooking oil. So, we think there's opportunities for us to enhance and get bigger. I don't know about a magic 60% growth rate target you said, but I think it's plodding away where we can feel we can position ourselves best to service our customers. And that's what we're focused on. Bill can add some more color to that.

Maybe I can add on to that Ben. Bill makes very good comments there. If you think about so corn slid down maybe $0.40, $0.05, call it $4.60 [ph] nearby, beans have been quite a bit more. So, the beans is often one of the core start. We've seen a sort of a calendar year down about a $1.50 that we've seen over 40 years. So, I mean I beans have really declined quite a bit.

The point that we like to think about it impacts our business as basis traders is really what are those domestic opportunities as Bill talked about on freight and working closely with our clients. And so what's changed is going from an inverse market to more of a carry market.

We have some opportunities to do well in the inverse. For example our Louisiana assets did very well the last two years in an inverse being early corn to the market, but carry comes back to our bigger Eastern assets where we can earn storage income. So, we haven't seen that much over the past couple of years. So, it's kind of a balance thing for us more than the negative thing.

So, we'd like to see as Bill mentioned some volatility, some freight arbitrage, and opportunities to continue to work with our key clients and servicing their needs.

Thank you.

Hey Brian.

Sure, Brian. And this is sometimes I feel like the old man of ethanol, have been around it for about 30 years is that the winter months are always difficult. And ethanol, it's one of the seasonal low margin time of the year. And this winter is no exception. The difference being our merchants did a very nice job, with pre-hedging some Jan, Feb and even a little bit into March ethanol, and we had those -- the benefit of that shows up in our fourth quarter earnings because we mark-to-market those hedges. So we don't see those in January. But we were able to -- did a nice job trading the ethanol market going into the start of the year.

Again, that showed up in fourth quarter last year. Having said that, we were actually in a worse margin position on the Board at this time last year than we are this year. So I think that we're looking forward to what the spring season will be. It's interesting. I've done some reading about people talking about how driving mileage is initially a little statistics for vacation planning, maybe the highest ever that people after COVID spent a lot of time traveling on summer vacations and spring breaks by cars. And now with airline tickets quite pricey and some challenges in some overseas locations to visit there may be a record amount of spring and summer vacation travel.

So that's kind of an interesting little tidbit. But bottom line is we see an improvement in the spring/summer driving miles and a good balance in the ethanol S&D. So we're optimistic for a good margin recovery as we head into the latter part of the year. But Bill can provide a little more detail.

You make a very good point its just that I don't know off the record but we have very, very large short position spectrum short positions in the futures markets these days and they've been right they've made some good money in those positions. And when those are reversed, you'll see a bounce. And that the timing of that and I think a lot of it in the fundamentals of the ag cycle be when we get farmers in the field ready to plant, that one day the farmers make decisions on sowing some corn. They haven't sold a lot of early this year. So we expect to see as farmers, get ready for the next crop cycle to probably sell some of that and they would likely to sell on some kind of a rally.

So if we get a short covering rally that would be well received by the farm community obviously. But these -- prices are lower off the last two year peaks, but these are not horrible prices, right? There is still at breakeven kind of numbers and corn given the current input costs. So, this isn't a disaster year, it’s just a lower than we're off the peak, the last couple of years.

I’ll take that Brian. Yes, our pet food industry or our pet food business has continued to perform well much like several industries. Some of the premium products are being replaced with lower cost products, due to the inflation and the consumers. But one interesting opportunity as Brian mentioned is, two of our acquisitions -- recent acquisitions between Bridge Agri and ACJ International, both are really focused on the pet food industry and that's brought a welcome increase in our volume. It's also brought opportunities to our existing pet food industry. That's allowed us to take advantage of the synergies that we expected out of those businesses. So, in terms of continued growth and focus on the business, it is one of the key areas in our Premium Group and premium ingredients sectors that we are focused and honestly looking at more growth opportunities.