Paul Donahue
Genuine Parts Company (GPC) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Josh, I would just tag on to what Will said. We -- look, we own our results for '23. We've touched on that. It's now behind us. We've got new leadership at NAPA. We've got an improved supply chain -- we've got improved search capabilities, new sales structure in the field, and we're confident that business, as I think I said in my prepared remarks, our best days are in front of us. So we're encouraged, as Bert said, by the early days and early weeks of 2024. And again, looking for better days ahead.

And Michael, I would just tag on to what Bert said, we've been able to accomplish this while in the midst of the longest contraction on the PMI numbers, I think, since about '08. So we fully expect -- well, we're encouraged by the move in the right direction in the PMI numbers, we'll see industrial production, I think, today comes out. But we're expecting that manufacturing to shift back to a positive sometime in 2024. And that's just going to benefit the top line, which will benefit the overall business.

Greg, this is Paul. I'll jump in on the second part of your question regarding the business breakdown, major accounts roughly in the high teens, 20% range. NAPA AutoCare, which we're incredibly excited about the progress we're seeing in NAPA AutoCare. We've had a big surge in memberships over the last 90 days. That's about 20% of our overall commercial business. You mentioned small kind of mom and pop up and down the street. We've got a program as well in place where we're focusing in on getting back some of that business. That's about 20% roughly. And then you've got government and fleet, which for us, Greg, that's a significant part of our commercial business and one that -- we have long been incredibly strong and that's about the balance of your 40% of your commercial business. So I hope that helps.

Good morning, Daniel

And then, Daniel, you asked about Q1. As you know, we don't give out quarterly guidance. What I would tell you, Q1 will be our toughest comp of the year, Daniel. And I think as Bert mentioned in his prepared remarks, we're looking for really a strong -- much stronger second half. But I will tell you this, our industrial team is focused, you hit it in your question. I do believe we're taking share. We've got the best team in the industry, and I have no doubt they'll deliver for us in Q1 as well.