Paul Romanowski
D.R. Horton, Inc. (DHI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

The average rate can move quite a bit through the quarter, but we tend to stay about 1 to 1.25 points below market at any given time. And today, we're offering on an FHA government loans, roughly in the 5.99% rate and, on a conventional 6.25%, which is right in that range of 1.25, 1.5 below today.

About 60% of our total closings are used with some form of a rate buy-down. And so, a big percentage of – and the most successful incentive we have seen has been to impact that monthly cost of homeownership through some form of rate buy down.

I'm going to say probably in the 6-ish range.

We are still seeing strong interest, Carl, from the institutional investors that are out there. As you mentioned, the spreads have come in. And we're going to see some volatility in gross margin as we move through this process and move through the markets of higher rates, but still seeing consistent activity. I still feel we are in a great position to be the dominant supplier of single-family rental and continuing to grow our multifamily platform.

As you know, we don't report on sales – forecast on sales, but we are pleased with our sales thus far into October. And you certainly see fluctuations in traffic when we see the kind of moves that we've seen over the last couple of weeks, both up and down in rates. But with our ability to hold stable rates through our interest rate incentives, we've been able to convert pretty consistently with the buyers that we've had out there. But any time you have fluctuations in rates, we're going to see people pause for a period of time until they settle into the reality of what they can afford.

I think anytime you see rates like they have been in the capital markets, a bit in flux, then we're going to see some headwinds from our developers, from less capitalized builders. And it will create some opportunities, but we feel like we've got a good plan and open communications with our vendors, our trades and our lot suppliers to continue to work through those processes.

Well, the team that's at the table is a team that was at the table last quarter last year and the prior several. We have a great position and are aligned as a company, not just from this group, but with our regional leadership and our division leadership. And we have continued to focus on returns community by community. And we have the benefit now of a wider footprint across the geographic area that we've expanded on, which is going to continue to provide strength for us and supply as we continue to expand in those markets.

So the short version is we feel really good about where we are. I don't feel the need to put a stamped footprint or fingerprint on something unique and different because we have a strong team and a great operation in play, and a good playbook that we are executing on every day.

No, I don't expect that to skew. Ken, we continue to build our developer partnerships in all markets. And I would expect that, over time, you'll continue to see a rise, not a reduction in the number of lots we buy fully developed as we derisk our balance sheet and our lot pipeline.

We are watching it closely, and we continue to be in the market with stabilized assets. And we just like – as we sell homes, we watch the market closely, look at what demand is and what that pricing is. We don't intend to continue to hang on to stuff and significantly increase our balance sheet. So while we're indicating that we may see some choppiness in margins as we flow through this market, but we still feel good about the demand that's out there, we feel good about our position and the platform and intend to continue to grow the platform and be positioned to do so, but we'll watch it closely in the coming quarters and adjust accordingly.

It's about 60% of our buyers are utilizing some type of rate buy-down and a fair chunk of those – I don't have specific numbers – almost all are permanent 30-year buy-down.

And we have been very conservative in our underwriting and expectations for our single-family rental business and making sure that we feel good about it as a for-sale position as well as a for-rent, and underwriting it to the lowest of those guidelines for our operators, so that we aren't stretching on cap rates that are all driven potentially by interest environment.

Thanks, Tom. We appreciate everyone's time on the call today and look forward to speaking with you again in January to share our first quarter results.

I would like to thank David for his leadership, guidance, and support throughout my career. Our company has produced remarkable results during his tenure as CEO, and he has positioned us for continued success.

To the D.R. Horton team, thank you for your incredible efforts in fiscal 2023. We are well-positioned heading into the new year, and I look forward to everything we will accomplish together in fiscal 2024.

