Pierce Norton
ONEOK, Inc. (OKE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sunil, this is Pierce. The really question kind of falls in the bucket of mergers and acquisitions, I think – I just want to reemphasize that our primary focus is to continue to be integrating the Magellan acquisition and executing on the synergies and opportunities that we see to create the maximum value for our shareholders. So we’re going to be – we’re going to continue to be intentional and disciplined in our approach to M&A. But I’d also say that we have – and we will continue to look at other mergers and acquisitions in the context of how do they strengthen our competitive position.

So I’ll kind of take a high-level cut at that, and then I’ll ask either Walt or Sheridan to chime in on this. But one thing that I don’t know if you picked up on, but Walt just mentioned that we actually have some excess cash of about 20% to 25%. So there is money out there for these high-return projects that we either or potentially working on or even not identified at this point. So as far as the specifics go, I’ll kind of turn it over to Walt and Sheridan.

I’m going to let Walt kind of take the CapEx question, but there’s a couple of things that I want to make sure that I note on this call that it pertains to Saguaro, Michael. And one is I want to really thank all those employees who worked on getting the permit approved in this process. And as we look at Saguaro, it is the most economic route for LNG to reach the markets or at least multiple markets. And that’s actually been indicated by the strong commercial interest and the backing by the major players there. And here’s where I want to really kind of make this clear that we said all along that our commitment to this project will involve procuring the presidential permit, which as we noted in our script, that is complete, the building of the U.S. portion of the pipe, getting across the border with the pipe and then the operation of the U.S. pipe. And as far as our financial involvement, that’s going to be commensurate with the value that it brings to our shareholders versus the risk we see in the project. I’ll kind of let Walt fill in some of the details there.

Yes. This is Sheridan. Absolutely with more efficiency and then growing 3-mile laterals, so, each well is going to have more production on that. So we are going to see a drop off from our previous cadence on capital that we need to spend in the area to maintain volume. And also remember that in the Bakken, we are guiding a little bit over 1.6 Bcf of throughput, and we have 1.9 Bcf of processing capacity up there. So we have a lot of working leverage to grow in that area. So we will see our capital come down.

So, Jean Ann, this is Pierce. Based on what I have seen, I mean I actually look at this as well. There is capacity today. So, there is no restrictions today. And if you look at the fact that there is going to be some natural gas-fired generation facilities that are going to be built in the North Dakota area and you also look at the Bison Express and then you also look at WBI, we are not seeing anything in – anywhere in the near future if there is going to be any kind of restrictions on gas takeaway.

Tristan, this is Pierce. Kind of embedded in your question there is the implication of kind of what drives our EBITDA to the higher end versus the lower end, I think that’s probably worth mentioning there. But filling more of our existing capacity across these assets is going to clearly make that movement up. And we have already mentioned that we want to make sure that we get this pipe in by first quarter 2025 out of the Bakken. And then also to continue to prioritize and execute on those additional – those connectivities between our NGL refined products and crude oil systems across our footprint. And then third, it’s those quicker than forecasted recognition of synergies. And of course, the downside would be things that might impact the volume, which is the weather and the user activity. All of those kind of go into how far above or below the midpoint that we might be that impacts what you and Walt just talked about.