FedEx Corporation (FDX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Raj Subramaniam

Yes, Allison, thank you for your question. Of course, Canada is a unique market and we're taking a different approach there than the market-by-market approach we take in the U.S. The Canadian population is heavily concentrated in a few key geographies and the volume is split roughly 50-50 between Express and Ground. So we made the decision to consolidate everything under Express and is the right time to take these steps, because will begin in April 2024 and complete by September of 2024. And it's very important that you understand that this is unique to Canada, because we are going to take a market-by-market approach in the United States and we’d have a hybrid in the United States between couriers and package handlers. But it's a very important step for us in Canada, it reduces our cost by about $100 million and importantly improves our portfolio and service differentiation. Thanks for the question, Allison.

And let me just jump in before I turn it on to Brie here, so it's a simple one, two, three formula. At 1%, we are at the low-end of the range; at 2%, we're in the middle; at 3%, we are at the higher-end of the range in terms of revenue growth. Now, to go beyond that, we become non-linear in terms of significant operational leverage, so, yes, DRIVE is working and we have flexibility to pull additional levers as we need to. Brie?

Yes, Brandon, the markets that we have transitioned over are, we're in Alaska, we're working through Hawaii, and certain other markets in Minneapolis, so we have learned a lot in this process from technology, from facilities and people. And the hybrid model is that in some markets, we will have couriers and in some markets, we have a -- we have contractors, so those things will be determined, they will air-driven and they will work-through with our people first -- PPSP philosophy and they will, as I said, because this is going to take a little bit of time as we told you, but glad we're making the progress we're making already. Thank you.

Tom, firstly, I may say this much, as I said in my prepared remarks, this is the first time in history of FedEx that's in the FedEx Ground where the volumes declined and our operating margin expanded. So clearly this is beyond just flexing for volume and we have -- this is really DRIVE taking effect as well. So this is -- we're just very, very pleased with how John and his team is performing in Ground, and by the way I'll give kudos to the Express team and Richard's team as well, as we have started to see significant improvement in the fourth quarter.

To your question about the macro. So when we talked in September, we pointed to three things. We said that the industrial economy was slowing down and because of inflation, interest rates, and slowdown in global trade, we said that the consumer spending was shifting to services versus goods. And then thirdly, there was an e-commerce reset coming out of -- coming out of the pandemic. Well, all those three things happened and they were detrimental to volume for the whole industry, so I mean roughly the same revenue performance on the calendar quarter that is comparable across the sector.

If you look ahead here, at this point, the one and two are basically along the same lines we have seen in the last few months. I think on the e-commerce side, we expect to see growth now. I think the reset is probably complete and e-commerce is going to grow into the next calendar -- sorry, the next -- this FY ‘24 timeframe. So, we're watching this very carefully. The visibility, especially in the second-half is very difficult, given the dynamic circumstances we are seeing. We will see how the industrial production goes. We'll see how GDP and trade goes, and we'll follow the inventory stocking and inventory to sales ratio very carefully, and -- but at the end of the day, we are focused on the things we can control. We made a determination that we are going to come out of this stronger than we went in and exactly what we're doing and I'm very, very pleased with the way we are executing DRIVE. So sorry for the long answer, Tom, but I thought I want to give you a full perspective there.

And Scott, on the one, two, three, I just wanted to keep the math straight-forward here, it's simple one, two, three formula, but the point I wanted to make also is that, as it accelerates beyond that, then the curve becomes non-linear. As you know, we have significant operating leverage. I think you are the one who called it, opening the jaws of the crocodile then that's kind of what's going to happen.

Okay. Helane, a couple of questions there. So first, as it relates to the aspects of the pilot tentative agreement there, a component of that is a payment upon implementation. So we've previously accrued for that date of signing payment there. And then within the guidance here, we have the FY '24 scale increases and then within the pension figures I gave earlier, that incorporates the considerations as it relates to that as well. So that's fully incorporated into the outlook there. And as we mentioned earlier, we're expecting to park 29 additional aircraft during the year, nine of which will be permanently retired.

Yes, I mean, David, the short answer is we're projecting margin improvement with the outcomes here that we have highlighted and specific drivers within that.

And Amit, yes, first of all, let me again thank Mike for just incredible work over the last 18-years and particularly in the last three and we have a fantastic finance team and a great organization. From our succession planning, we are looking at somebody who has deep financial expertise, but also strong operational capabilities, and help lead FedEx through our DRIVE transformation program. So again, thank you for your question.

Thank you, operator. Before we close, I want to give Mike an opportunity to say a few words.

Thank you, Mike. In closing, I also want to thank our team members for their hard work and dedication as we build the world's smartest logistics network. We made tremendous progress on our transformation efforts in fiscal year '23 and the team is already moving with urgency as we enter fiscal year '24. We know there's significant opportunity ahead and I'm confident in our ability to continue to execute. Thank you very much.