Ray Scott
Lear Corporation (LEA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Good morning, Rod.

Yes. Rod, I’ll share some stories with you too, next week publicly. But I couldn’t been in our facilities. And I think the technology, the innovations, the things that we put in place, when you talk about upside, I think that’s a potential accelerator. What I’m seeing with the pilot lines we put in place around the areas Jason mentioned, our labor focus priorities are around trim and wiring.

And what I saw in our wiring facilities, we’re automating and doing a great job with some of the efficiencies that we’re getting in our plants. And to mention, I think what’s important, too, the capital that we’re looking at is significantly lower cost. So it’s not only improving from an efficiency within our plants, the capital that’s coming online is significantly lower than what we’re seeing from traditional capital. So we’re getting two, I think, really good benefits. You saw that last year in our capital spend. And I think that’s going to continue to accelerate.

I think the negotiations with our customers. We take a very balanced approach to the year starting off in January. We’re in heavy discussions with our customers on all kinds of different issues relative to the pause in EVs to what we’re seeing with labor economics. I think we’re balanced. I think some of those, we’re going to be very aggressive on those I think could help significantly quicker than maybe than the second half of this year. But we do take a balanced approach in the beginning.

I think volume. I think we’ve looked at volume very conservatively. I think right now our customers are retrenching a little bit with this pause in EV. We’re hearing a lot from our inside the customers of how they’re going to look at their powertrains, what that might impact as far as ICE vehicles. We’ve gotten some feedback that they’ll formalize it here in the near future. If ICE continues to accelerate in some of our platforms that we’ve been a little bit more bearish on, because that’s the information we have. That’s a nice little tailwind for us.

So, I think we have some opportunities here, but we are pushing very aggressively, but we do have a very balanced approach, especially coming out in January, Rod. We’ve been absorbing a lot of these EV changes quickly and then really giving a little bit more bearish [ph] look to what the alternatives will be. And so that could be a nice boost for us.

Good morning, Dan.

I also think what was important, and we talked about this with E-Systems is simplifying the product portfolio and seeing a little bit this even before it occurred. I mean, obviously, it was a much more dramatic pullback or pause as big call with EVs, but we were ahead in some respects of really limiting what capital we’ll be deploying. And I think equally as important where we’re investing our capital – our dollars and then also scaling certain products. When we talk about a BDU, it can be a very scalable program across multiple customers, same thing within IGB.

And so I say it all the time, not trying to be everything to everybody investing in all kinds of different solutions, but being very, very disciplined and selective on where we will deploy capital and being very good at it. And I think that’s helped us. I mean we still have more work to do, like Jason said, on the commercial negotiation with some of these more dramatic changes within EVs, but we have that type of relationship with our customers that we are seen as an expert. And we didn’t deploy capital at the request of a particular volume to hit a run rate. It was very, very selective, intentional. And so I think that helped. But simplifying that product portfolio in E-Systems has really helped us as this pause has come at us over the last really three months.

Yes, I think our customers do over the – probably the first two quarters to start clarifying the specifics around those type of situations. And we did take, like Jason said, a more balanced conservative approach given the information we have. And if there is movement, and that said, not formally, but informally, we’ve gotten some feedback that they are internally across the board looking at how they’re going to position between hybrid electric vehicles and the continuation in some cases, the ICE vehicles. And what’s nice about the continuation of ICE vehicles, those are usually longer in the tooth. We’re usually doing a really nice job efficiently. And so we’re with you. We hope to keep running those things. I think we’ll get more clarity over the next couple of quarters here as they start to kind of rebalance their own internal strategies.

Yes. Our focus is driving free cash flow. And we’re going to convert at our target or higher, and we’re going to return it to the shareholders. I mean we’re going to – what’s nice is right now, we talk about innovation technology on the plant floors. We acquired some small tuck-ins with Thagora, ASI, InTouch, and boy, they made a dramatic difference. And it’s not extremely costly when we talk about this capital deployment; we’re doing it at a lower cost. And we’re seeing that capital come in significantly lower, and we’re deploying it in a life or with new launches.

So, we’re going to be very, very focused on our working capital, how we’re converting our cash flow and we’re in really good position. We’ve been doing this for several years. So when I’m going out the plant and seeing this, what’s really nice in this WS launch, we just went through unprecedented, never done before in the history of seating. We had our capital. We wouldn’t even take the capital from our competitor because it was that bad from a throughput standpoint and how it was working within their facility. We launched that plant with our technology innovation, low capital cost, much more efficient. We produce more output than they could produce ever produced in their three years of trying to hit their daily volumes. And what was great about it. And Frank’s here, the team did a remarkable job was our quality from our customers, said it was superior to our competitor that was producing those parts for years.

And so that gives me excitement, because I’m looking at this technology in the plants and we’re a manufacturing company, we produce parts. That acceleration of innovation technology that we’ve been driving for multiple years is starting to really take hold. And it’s about – we don’t need anything. We’ve made some nice acquisitions. There’s nothing on the horizon like Jason said. And when we walk out this meeting, we’re going to go to how we’re going to drive more cash flow. So that’s what we’re going to stay focused on.

Thanks, John.

And I think the way I categorize it and discuss it too, is that even though we have past practice in some of these negotiations and historical understanding or baseline of how we get recovery. We base our guidance on that. Now we’re in for a much different number as far as getting settled within the year and that – there’s timing elements to that.

Obviously, we’re pull on productivity or pulling on volume, all these other things. And so we’re going in above what the net difference would be for negotiations based on past practice. Some of them are in models or some of them are discussed in other settlements. And I think in addition to that, we have a lot more control around the automation within our facilities. Like Jason mentioned earlier, 35% of our labor is in our trim. And we are just on one of our facilities. And in our own control, we’ve been able to automate, which has always been something that because of variability with the trim covers, we’ve done a nice job of bringing in very sophisticated innovation to automate that equipment. That’s in ours.

Now accelerating that faster is another nice opportunity for us. And so we’ve been somewhat conservative on how we roll that out but those are opportunities that I think would improve the overall number as we look at it today.

Yes. Thanks, Matt. I’m sure everyone on the call now is just the Lear team. I just want to again thank everyone for their outstanding job in 2023. And like we always discussed so what now what? We got some challenges ahead of us this year, but we know what we need to do, and I appreciate all the great work we’re going to do this year to hit our targets and achieve them. So thank you for everybody for all your hard work.