Rich Hume
TD SYNNEX Corporation (SNX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

David, good morning, and thanks for the question. This is Rich. Yes. If you think about the evolution on -- throughout -- and then the back end of COVID, obviously, last year at about this time, the PC ecosystem set of products really went into a pretty significant decline. At the same time, back into COVID, there was pent-up demand and backlog for Advanced Solutions products.

So as we come into this fiscal, you have an easier compare within the PC ecosystem. You have a more difficult compare in the Advanced Solutions because of the cycles that had transpired in the past. So our point of view is when we think about the first half, that there will be some level of growth in PC ecosystem, but the Advanced Solutions will face a bit of a more challenging compare. Then when we get to the back half of the year, we believe that most of the wraps, if you will, have concluded and that both of those major segments will have growth attributes. And that's what has led us to the guide of kind of flattish in the first half with mid-, high-single-digit in the second half.

And yes, of course, it's always our intention to do better than the market. In fact, in the prepared remarks, we talked about in the Americas theater as well as -- I'm sorry, the North America theater as well as the European theater that we had gained some market share. So Marshall, I don't know if you have anything to add.

Yes. So David, I would use cloud as a parallel or an analogy here. So obviously, there was a lot of marketing and fanfare, call it the Hyve -- or I think the IDC calls at the Hyve curve at the front end, where clearly, this is a real technology that's going to bring a lot of benefits, but the plans are defined and there's a bit of a gap until the reality starts to flow through the market. From an AI perspective, there will be a lot of AI embedded in existing offerings.

So I'm sure there's going to be a fairly comprehensive discussion on how to count AI as there was cloud back in the day. Certainly, there will be the emergence of new AI capabilities. What comes to mind is AI servers, et cetera. So right now, certainly, there are products in market that are AI-enabled. As we move through time, there'll be more and more and more. We have incorporated the thoughts of AI into our forecast for the full year.

But as you had indicated, it's more of an early ramp, with the expectation that there will be more robust demand as we move through time.

Now the only other thing that I would tell you is that I believe is the reality is that this isn't just an incremental on top on whatever IT spending might have been planned prior to AI. Every company sort of lives within an envelope. They decide with that budgeted envelope bid, and there might be some expansion, but this won't be just a new market segment that provides a complete on-top increment, but rather, there will be some reprioritization that happens relative to how customers spend their IT dollars moving forward. So yes, I think it will have a positive effect on IT growth, but again, it won't be a complete increment.

Yes. As we had reported in the past, when we think about share, we have really good insight relative to North America and Europe, but we really don't have visibility yet. There is a service that is emerging in Europe. As it relates to the quarter, our information would say we lost a couple of tenths of market share, tenths of 1%, if you will, on the aggregated basis, while having grown share for the full year.

Yes. So as Marshall talked about the very comprehensive process that we go through, our indicators in talking to customers, vendors, working with our own teams are that we will see growth moving forward in Endpoint. And in fact, within our Q1 guide, we anticipate some growth within the Endpoint. So we feel good about that. While we have a moderating situation in Advanced Solutions based on the commentary that I provided earlier.

No, year-on-year.

Ruplu, good morning, thank you for the question. This is Rich. So when we talk about our capital allocation strategy, as you know, it's 50% and 50% over the continuum. There could be periods where we're heavier weighted one way or the other. Obviously, Marshall talked about FY '23 in his prepared remarks, and we were, I think, at 60%-ish for return to shareholder in total.

So as we kind of plot through the year, certainly, we have a pipeline of acquisition targets that we continue to look at and work. Those deals have to have a willing recipient on the other end, and they've got to work for us. And usually, we take a look at those acquisition targets and really want to make sure that they complement our strategy. So going forward, I would tell you that the 50-50 is sort of a good way to think about it. And again, things don't always go exactly as planned. So we adjust course as required based on the circumstance. So Marshall, anything you have to add?

Yes. Just to add to that, I think generally, my point of view is the narrative that we provide in the call is -- is fairly directionally correct relative to what I think you'll see in the segmentation going forward. We always talk about the segments, and you all ask for insights around the segment. But this will put sort of the definitive clarity out there in print.

And then the second point that I would make, Michael, is that you guys are pretty good at modeling. Every time we get an insight relative to models, we are impressed relative to how you guys think about the business and how you laid out.


I'm sorry, can you repeat that? You broke up a little bit.

Yes. If the question is do we believe Hyve will participate in AI server builds, absolutely. Remember that the big segment of Hyve is an ODM type of business. And so we end up building what our customers have interest in. And certainly, we have full expectation that we will be participating in the AI builds moving forward.

Yes, I may. As it relates to Q4 in the prepared remarks -- and this is -- I guess, the pleasant surprise is, for the most part, the sales were consistent with our expectations. I think Marshall talked a little bit about maybe some -- a little bit better strength in Europe versus our expectation, but it wasn't overwhelmingly different.

And then for each of the segments, they sort of came in fairly consistent with our expectation. As we move ahead, as we had talked about, because of the backlog runoff last year in AS, we would anticipate a more challenging compare year-on-year. And then as we sort of move through the year, that compare sort of through time gets a little bit easier as the backlog had dissipated, if you will, through the year. And so that would be our expectation. But again, our crystal ball would say that both of those segments are growing in the second half of next year, both the Endpoint as well as the Advanced segment.

Yes. I think, Adam, just to maybe be a bit repetitive. The thing that we've got to work through is the mix shifts back now to more Endpoint. And as that happens, as Marshall said, there's probably a 20 basis point headwind that we need to work on and figure out how to improve upon. I would say that we're reasonably proud of the fact that when you take a look at the op income margin for FY '23, we've been able to hold that or we held that despite the revenue declines that we had faced.

So we have some work to do going forward, but we kind of have our eye on it, and the execution engine will kind of focus on how do we drive improvement moving forward.


Yes. So the customer ramp was just a little bit delayed due to timing of things, but we fully anticipate that we're clear to go moving forward.

Thank you, Adam.


Yes. Thanks for the question. Good morning. Obviously, it's a new technology coming in. All indications that we have, it will be sort of at the high end of the premium price band going forward as one would anticipate or in the fiscal year coming, I should say. All of the intelligence that we have says that it will be sort of a single-digit percent of total of the entire PC population, and then, I think, becoming more meaningful in FY '25 and then into FY '26. So great opportunity going forward. Kind of best crystal ball estimate is sort of mid-single-digit back half of the year percent of total PC volume and then growing meaningfully after that.

Well, thank you.

Joe, good morning, and thank you for the question. So what I -- the way I would talk about this is I think that the underlying demand across all of these technologies is pretty good. And lead with how to think about how these technologies emerged and have grown from my point of view is to think about when their backlogs recovered last year, because that's inevitably the increment of the compare year-on-year that I think sort of distorts the numbers a little bit. And when I come at it from that perspective, server and storage had recovered its backlog earlier. And then networking had carried the backlog later into last year.

And so when I think about the recovery on a year-to-year basis, I think server and storage emerged earlier than networking because of that backlog hanging around for a longer period of time will be later in the cycle. As we had stated earlier then when we get to the back half of the year, we think that each of these categories should have growth attributes. That's at least our expectation.

Thanks, Joe.


So Keith, good morning. I hope everything is well. Yes, they're proceeding consistent with our expectations. We would anticipate as we think about this year that we're going to start to see meaningful progress relative to our cross-sell opportunities with our customers. When we think about our guide, we fundamentally believe that we've baked that opportunity into the guide and it will really kind of ramp up and hopefully be a bit more meaningful in the back half of the year. Do you have anything to add, Marshall?


So first of all, let's talk about the primary capabilities that are offered with the acquisition. First is around repair and then test and refurbishment. We certainly participate in those businesses today. And really, we connect quite well relative to assisting our vendors in that regard. And we like the business.

And obviously, it also offers a 220,000 square foot piece of real estate, which will allow us to do more integration for customers as well. But we see a good demand, a solid demand for those services with our vendors, and they've been encouraging us to grow that footprint, which we are doing. The other thing I'd like for you to think about is there's more focus on these types of things, especially the refurb segment moving forward as sustainability comes front and center. So we also see sort of, if you will, a bit of a revival around refurb as the world tries to become more sustainable. So we think that there's going to be an extra ticker relative to these types of businesses moving forward based on that focus.

Yes. I guess the only thing that I would add to Marshall's comments is we always have an aspiration to grow a bit faster than the market. I think history would say that we had been successful relative to that pursuit. And we would kind of characterize '25 and '26 with that type of expectation that whatever the market growth is that we would aspire to and execute above -- a little bit above market expectations.

Yes. Just a way of thinking about this is, last year, we knew AS had grown and ES had declined. Those are the two major segments of our business. So if you take a look at the net change in revenue year-on-year, you're probably getting close to the answer.

Well, thanks, everyone, and thanks for participating in the call today. FY '23 certainly played out different than we all had anticipated as we had sat around the table this time last year. That being said, I'm very proud of what we've accomplished. I'm very proud of our relationships with our vendors and our customers. They are our primary stakeholders, and my congratulations to our 23,000 coworkers around the world for doing a great job executing in this more challenging environment than anticipated.

With that, I wish you all a great day.