Richard Dickson
The Gap, Inc. (GPS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, thanks, Adrienne. I appreciate the question, and we're very excited to welcome Zac to the company, and in particular, to our largest brand, Old Navy, where he is going to be serving as Chief Creative Officer. Zac is one of America's most celebrated designers. His creative expertise, his cultural clarity, has consistently evolved American fashion, making him really a great fit for the company as we engage our culture and look to reinvigorate our story brands.

Zac's role as Chief Creative Officer at Old Navy is really designed to harmonize, orchestrate, and dial up the storytelling across product and marketing. Looking at how we create brand relevance and charade experiences that ultimately celebrate the brand's ownable attributes, fun, fashion, and value for the whole family.

Now, as Zac gets more immersed in the business, his influence will be really well considered to enhance the continuity of the brand's reinvigoration which we've already started to see show up on the scoreboard, and his leadership across the portfolio will add a new dimension of relevance, and I'm really looking forward to Zac on the team and having him get immersed in our portfolio at our brands.

Sure. Yes. Bob, thank you for the question. Look, marketing is a much more complex function today than it was in the past and our brands need to show up where consumers are, but they need to show up in relevant ways, and the media mix to create relevant demand creation has changed fastly and we're approaching it very differently than in the past. There really is an art and science to creating demand today and Gap Inc.'s brands have been behind, but we are working on delivering more efficiency with our marketing and media dollars to have more specific and significant impact.

And what I would say is, while we don't share marketing spend by brand, it's really not about spending more, it's about spending more efficiently. And I think you can take the Gap Linen campaign, as you mentioned, as an example. Gap is probably furthest along in this new approach -- using a holistic approach, social, influencers, streaming, linear throughout all the way through our stores, site to amplify this big idea. And I think as you'll see, you need to be driving a message consistently from the top to the bottom of the marketing funnel, and historically, we've not done a good job of keeping the message consistent throughout the funnel, and this is a great example of our new marketing methodology.

Now, on Athleta, which you mentioned specifically, which again is another great example, we have a really significant opportunity with this important brand, the Power of She, is a compelling brand platform. And we know the Athleta brand resonates with consumers, but our missteps in executing product, marketing, experience has ultimately weighed heavily on the performance of the brand in recent years.

Chris, as you know, Blakeslee joined us in 2023, leading a team that is driving the brand reinvigoration and I think as you start to see some of that reinvigoration playbook through marketing, great storytelling, executed through social media and our stores, we're very excited about really the tremendous potential of Athleta, and Gap as well, as I mentioned before, incredible storytelling brand, historically, a pop culture brand that truly does more than sell clothes, and today, we're really moving again.

The current campaign, Linen Moves, it is a great example of Gap having a voice again in the cultural conversation taking Linen as an amplified big idea and doing it and owning it only the way Gap can. Music leverage always been synonymous with Gap. We've teamed up with Grammy Award winner Tyla and the recent BRIT award winner Jungle and created a credible storytelling campaign that's culturally relevant and resonating.

And my last point, particularly in the marketing, metrics that matter places like TikTok and Instagram are new platforms for Gap in the context of being more relevant to our consumer. Linen Moves is currently Gap brand's highest-performing video on both of these platforms ever. So early days, we are encouraged with the momentum that we're seeing. The playbook is in action and there'll be a lot more to come.

Thanks, Ike. Well, first off, I'd say my arms are everywhere in the context of what we're trying to achieve here. And I think, again, speaking for the quarter results, we exceeded expectations on both top- and bottom-line, gaining market shares and the strength was really driven by the two largest brands in our portfolio, Old Navy and Gap. And more specifically, Old Navy, it's the largest brand in our portfolio and we've been working on re-asserting the brand's authority as the number two apparel brand in the country. We have a strong retail presence.

We have over 1,200 stores and an incredible online presence, which I would encourage you to take a look at today in the context of its clarity and new relevant persona. We did have a strong quarter. Our sales were up 6% with comps up 2%. We gained share in all segments, but we did particularly well in women's, which we dialed up from a marketing perspective, and I will say the team has done a great job driving the financial and operational rigor, and Old Navy is really starting to see early signs of that brand reinvigoration.

In particular, we know Old Navy has a reference reinforcing style authority, but with more clarity on price and quality, both in stores and online, and again, we're very encouraged with those early results, and the consistency that we expect to have throughout the year in 2024 as we build upon that discipline.

I talked about Gap in the previous question, but similar. We've had a great quarter with Gap and year. We're very happy with the positive comps and we've been working to reignite Gap, and drawing on what made this brand so special in the first place. And ultimately, I think this campaign that you're seeing in market today, again, go online, take a look, I think it's a great example of the playbook in action and Gap having a voice and culture again, taking an idea in our storytelling and amplify in a way that only Gap can.

Thanks, Ike.

Thank you.

Absolutely. Matt, thanks for the question. As mentioned, Gap Inc., gained market share in the quarter year-over-year, which we were very pleased with and that is on the backdrop of a declining overall industry, so even more credit to the strength of these two particular brands at this particular time. It was driven, of course, by Old Navy and Gap as mentioned, and frankly, what we've seen in particular is, in Gap Inc., we gained share in literally all segments. The stores gained share driven by Old Navy and Gap and also outerwear, sleep, pants, wovens, tops also gained, kids and baby, as fair to mention, is a really important segment of our business. The Old Navy is the number one kids and baby brand in the U.S.

Gap Inc owns 9% of the total market. We have proven capabilities and brands that resonate in this category. And so over time, it's also an opportunity for us to accelerate and become even more important of a player in this segment. And as you'll see, and we evolve our dialogue going forward, we have opportunities in several key categories of strength, Denim, Active, Kids and baby. These will all be really good conversations for us to have as we move forward with our reinvigoration plans.

Thanks, Matt.

Yes. We don't disclose how we spend or what we spend on in the context of marketing. We invest in advertising over time. And our ad spend has grown to support our brands as a result of elevated costs. But in general, ultimately, our mission is to drive more effective and more efficient use of our dollars. Marketing dollars are continuing to come down year-over-year and that is a direct function of in more innovative medium metrics that is sort of driving a more innovative approach to how we market.

We are continuing to evaluate our marketing comprehensively as part of the brand reinvigoration work as well as part of media efficiency work, whether that results in lower spend in 2024 or better effectiveness of the current spend, we're going to continue to see how that plays out. But regardless, we have plenty of marketing investments, do not need to be spending any more and we're going to continue to look for opportunities to be more efficient and save where appropriate.

Thanks, Lorraine.

Yea. Thanks, Brooke, for the question. And Athleta is a really important brand in our portfolio. We believe that it has significant long-term potential. The Power of She, as I talked about, is just an incredibly compelling brand platform, and we know the brand resonates with consumers. Our missteps are very public. We've executed poorly in product, marketing, and experience and that's weighed on the performance of the brand in recent years. But resetting the brand will take time. We expect the tougher promotional volume comparisons to improve by the second-half of 2024.

The team is focused incredibly well on executing the brand reinvigoration playbook. They're leveraging the brand purpose, identity with great new products, exciting storytelling. It's supported by compelling marketing and really executed with excellence. I would encourage you to take a look at our sites, take a look at the social dialogue that we currently have on Athleta, even our stores that we started the new year with a very clean palette in our stores, and we've seen early successes in some of the new arrivals.

And again, encouraged by the customers' early reaction. I'm really liking where the team is going with the new drop strategy, innovation, color, and new customer activations and we'll, of course, provide updates as we move through the year and assess the brand's continued progress in executing the playbook. But suffice it to say, we are very excited about the tremendous potential of Athleta.

Thank you.

Yes. Look, I think, as we've said, our brands are all in different stages of reinvigoration. And ultimately, as we see the performance on Old Navy and Gap, in particular, we're incredibly encouraged. I mean, as you've seen with Gap, the continuation of our reignition is working well. Again, we had a great quarter in Gap comp up 4%, Old Navy up 2%, as we described. These are not necessarily overnight fixes. It will take time.

But as a high-performing company, we want to do what we say we're going to do, and that is also setting up expectations that we believe that we can meet. We're, of course, aspiring always to outperform and we believe that our outlook really reflects that each one of our brands is in a different point of reinvigoration. Again, very encouraged with the comps on Old Navy and Gap. And their early work on reinvigoration, which, again, is supported by financial and operational discipline is really showing up on the scoreboard.

I have noted Banana Republic has more foundational work to do to recover. The brand is a great brand. It's got great potential. The new aesthetic is resonating. But the product architecture, pricing, in-stock really, the fundamentals need continued work and effort, and the brand will take some time to re-establish. And as mentioned, Athleta is making good underlying progress, but tougher comparisons from last year, as the brand is lapping significant promotional volume and it's weighing on the revenue performance.

Now we're going to continue to do this probably through the first-half of 2024, and as the headwinds from the promotions last year abate in the second-half, we're energized by the potential of the brand and its brand reinvigoration work and the ability to see that brand show up better in performance.

Thank you.