Rick Dreiling
Dollar Tree, Inc. (DLTR) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi there, Ed.

I'm good, sir. What's up?

Yeah, great question. And hey, I'd like to throw on the table, Jeff and I talked a little longer than normal. And for those of you that are interested, we'll go past the 9 o'clock straight up and give you a little more time for questions.

As I think about, Ed, there is a -- this is a sum-of-the-parts story at the end of the day. And what's important here is we're very intently focused on creating shareholder value. The Dollar Tree multi-price point strategy is doing significantly better than we thought it would do. The customer acceptance has been off the chart to be frank. Our biggest problem right now is getting enough merchandise into the stores fast enough, so the consumer can respond.

Family Dollar is a victim of the macro environment out there. If you think about the increase in shrink, which I thought would have moderated if anything by now, but it is continuing to accelerate, and then, the pressure on the mix. But again, I come back to a well-run Family Dollar is a very, very powerful retail format. And I think what we're doing is making the right decisions to fortify the base in Family Dollar and position it, so we can go forward in a more stronger position.

Now in regards to the $10, we continue to believe in the $10 target that we announced, well, I guess about a year ago, and we are continuing to march toward that goal. However, the macro environment has gotten in our way. And we are dealing with high, high shrink numbers. We're dealing with big mix shifts. So, it's a little difficult for us to pinpoint that $10 target going forward. We still believe in the target, but we believe the path is to get to $7 in 2024, and we're intently focused on that. But again, we want a positive 2024, and then as we move through '24 and '25, we'll give you more of a handle on the $10.

Good morning.

Yeah. I mean, obviously, our guidance, we're looking for a strong year particularly on the Dollar Tree side. And I think as we get into quarter four, that is our big time of the year in terms of discretionary in Dollar Tree. We believe the initiatives that we're putting in place in Dollar Tree are definitely delivering very positive comp.

Family Dollar, as Jeff called out, is going to be a little tougher. And it's driven by the mix shift and it's also driven by quite honestly the pressure on the low end consumer in terms of income and the SNAP benefits. We will cycle through the SNAP benefits as we move toward the end of the year, but we feel very comfortable with our comp outlook.

Good morning, Matt.

Yeah. Dollar Tree, the fastest-growing demographic is north of $125,000 a year in income, which brings a lot more firepower to the store to be honest with you. And I think quite honestly, I think that attraction is the multi-price point and the fact that we've been able to increase the variety of product in the store. And I think the interesting thing about Dollar Tree, the lift is pretty universal across all the operating markets. It's not like the North -- East is strong and the West is weak. It's -- well, that boat is lifting pretty even all the way up.

When I look at the potential for Family Dollar and the optimization, again, it's a sum-of-the-parts story. And there are many opportunities in Family Dollar to maximize shareholder value. And what we intend to do, we know how well Dollar Tree is performing. As we said on our call, we are going to shift our focus to opening more Dollar Trees than we historically have done in the past. And quite frankly, it's being driven by the work on the coolers and it's being driven by the multi-price point. That's made the box more viable. But I think the rationalization of the portfolio was a natural step. And now what we can do by eliminating a bunch of underperforming stores, which take the bulk of the district managers time, we can now focus them on the stores that are doing better.

Hey, good morning, Chuck.

Yeah.

And the only thing I'd add to that Chuck, especially on the Dollar Tree side, when input cost goes down, the fact that we have fixed price points allows the Dollar Tree team to reengineer the product and bring a greater value to the table. And that's how that franchise has been built over the years. And so -- with $1.25, it might stay at $1.25 and it brings more value to the table to the consumer.

Good morning, John.

Yeah, great questions. First thing I'll say to you, John, is we will stagger the rollout. I like to spread an initiative over time, that way it turns into a gift that keeps on giving. So that's kind of our first plan on that.

The penetration, I would say right now, if Rick McNeely was in the room, the demand is insatiable from the customer. I like the 10% number that you threw out. We're going to be -- we were 8.8% in quarter four. So, yeah, I think it is -- right now of all of the things we're doing, and I got Jeff shaking his head, I would call it the gift that keeps on giving right now. And we're just really pleased with it.

And our goal, John, is get the multi-price point in the aisle where it belongs rather than being in the center of the store. We think it's more shoppable and the consumer will trade up.

Good morning, Michael.

Great -- two great questions. As far as re-bannering, we've already looked at a modest number of stores that we intend to do that in. And as we move through the portfolio, we will continue to research that. The one thing we want to be very careful of is: number one, the proximity to another Dollar Tree; and number two, we want to be careful that we don't distort the Dollar Tree brand. So, it's a little more complicated than just standing up saying, "Change them all to Dollar Trees and move forward." But it's a very good question that we're actually looking at as we speak.

And what was the second part of the question?

Yeah, recapturing the sales. I think we feel pretty bullish about that. A lot of these stores that we're rationalizing out of the system were built on top of another store. And there is the opportunity for us to take back some cannibalization. And I think it's a matter of time and, of course, we're going to continue to build new stores next year.

Good morning, Kate.

I mean, I'll speak to half of that question and let Jeff do the hard part. The fascinating thing, it depends on how many cases a store gets in an order to determine how many hours of savings there are. But I can tell you this, we've reduced our unload time to approximately one hour, which will benefit us long term majorly, especially in terms of store standards, in-stocks, which should lead to higher transactions, and the rest will be history having been through it.

And in regards to inventory?

And Kate, if I -- I'd like to call out Mike Kindy, who's been with me for years, who's driving the supply chain now. And again, you raised a very good question. Mike is working on two things. The inbound service rate, which is getting the right inventory here at the right time and then the outbound service rate, which is shipping what the stores are drawing. And we've had trouble with that, to be frank, over the years. But again, it's another example of improvements we're making.

Good morning, Paul.

I'll let you manage the second part, which is the hard part. What we're seeing is the reason our average ticket is down, I think, it's because we're seeing more trips. People are coming more often. I think eventually that will probably shake itself out, but it's all driven by the frequency at which the customer is coming in.

Good morning, Peter.

Good morning.

Yeah, another really good question. I would look at you and say the initiatives have worked in every store. The problem is the magnitude of the lift. And I think also as we looked at these stores, it was their location, the competitive environment, the quality of the facility, the proximity to the competition. There was many, many, many factors. And we have had in the past a real estate strategy that wasn't really focused on maximizing value. And what we've done now is pick stores that we don't think have a long-term future and more importantly hopefully we'll be able to transfer some sales from this closed store into one of our operating stores. So, I mean it's a pretty thorough process. Then important question is why didn't they get the lift from the initiatives of the other stores that we're keeping obviously, which is the bulk of the portfolio. It has to do merely with a lot of other extraneous factors.

Good morning, Brad.

Yeah. Thank you, Brad. On the consumable side in Family Dollar, as we have gotten our mix right inside the store in terms of the SKU count, remember we discontinued 1,000 and added 2,000 for a net of [1,900-and-change] (ph). We're very pleased with what we're seeing in terms of movement. We've made the consumable mix more relevant, and add to that the emphasis that we have placed on private brands. And now you have a national brand equivalent item that the consumer can purchase. And I think our consumable mix, to be honest, is the best it's been, in Family Dollar, harkens back to my old days as a grocer.

In regards to pricing activity out there, the market continues to be relatively stable. I would even say the promotional activity on the weekly flyers is relatively stable. It's not like we're seeing anything that's really wild. And I think our pricing position for Family Dollar is as good as it's ever been.

Good morning, Scot.

Thank you all very much for your time today, and looking forward to talking to you again in the near future.