Rob Davis
Merck & Co., Inc. (MRK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Just real quick, just quick microphone check. Can you hear us?

You can? Okay, we were showing we are muted. Sorry.

Alright. Good.

Sure. Adam, thanks for the question. So there has actually been Chinese competitors with an offering for some time actually in the Chinese market. And that market is large. We continue to believe in the eligible cohorts in just the urban females, which was the Tier 1 to Tier 3 cities, is about 200 million – a little over 200 million women. And so of that, we think probably about 30% have actually received vaccination. So, you are still looking at 120 million, 130 million eligible population. As we look at this and as we have seen over time, we continue to be very competitive. We are maintaining a vast majority of share in the private market. And really, you are seeing most of the local competitors go to the lower-tier cities and to a different population than we have been targeting. So, that does not change our view of the growth potential in China. Long-term, obviously we will continue to face competition there, and we are positioning ourselves to continue to succeed there. But the approval you are talking about is not changing our view.

Yes. I will start and then Caroline can jump in as well. But I think as you look at the market size and the comments, I don’t want to speak to comments that others have made. I think it’s also important to understand that as we bring a vaccine which brings significant incremental coverage, at 83% versus, if you look at PCV20, just as an example, it’s closer to, I think about 30%. So, you are looking at significant incremental coverage, which I think it can have an impact on how you think both about catch-up to cover the disease. As Dean noted in his prepared comments, we have eight serotypes covering 30% of what is causing disease, which is unique to us. So, we think that, that will have implications both in terms of the catch-ups as well as potentially to be able to go for patients 50 and plus versus 65 and plus. So, if you take all of those things into account, we still see this as a very large opportunity for us. Our view is it’s about an $8 billion market in ‘23. We anticipate it actually growing to be over $10 billion later in the decade. And with that being the pediatric segment of that is about 70%, so we are looking at 30% of that is what is the adult piece. So, as we see it, this is still a growing market, a good market. And we remain very confident that V116 will both have a majority share and be a meaningful contributor.

Chris, thanks for the question. Obviously, first, I just want to reinforce the pride I have in what Dean and the team have been able to do and the meaningful progress we are making both in our internal pipeline and what we have been able to do through the business development, which is I think in some ways, in a weird way, underlying your question. But as we sit here today, while I feel very good about the progress we have made in the growing portfolio, the diverse and deep portfolio we have in our pipeline, we do continue to believe we need more, and we will continue to prioritize business development. And I would say that our views of deals like Prometheus, like Acceleron are still the size of deals we are very interested in, if we can find great assets. So, clearly that’s an area of focus. But also continuing to do smaller deals as well, like what you saw with Harpoon. So, it’s going to be a range of deals. But I think as you look in that zero to kind of $15 billion, $1 billion to $15 billion, it continues to be where we will look for. And then obviously, we have also, I think shown that not only are we very open to doing an acquisition, but we see collaboration as an important tool as well, very similar to what we did with Daiichi Sankyo. So, we are going to be looking at the full suite and including deals that fit those categories.

Yes. Thanks Dean. And to the questions on the economics, and I think we have commented on this a little bit in various settings. But as we think about our strategy for bringing this to the market from a commercial perspective, our view is the quality-of-life benefits this brings does demonstrate and afford us the ability to get a premium price. But we also are very cognizant that any subcu pembro will have to be considered in the context of a generic IV version. So, we will price our subcu to drive for volume and to do for conversion, which means we will be looking at prices really more in line with where you would see the generic version at a premium that history has shown is very manageable and expected and covered by payers today when you look at the different delivery for them. So, in that sense, we think we will be able to manage this. The whole question of Part B versus Part D, we will have to see how it plays out as far as the ultimate side of administration. But if it does end up being into the Part D category, which is a reasonable chance, you are correct and that some of the new coverages that are out there in catastrophic and with the cap, also then from a patient perspective, should lower the burden they are going to face, which we also think could help with conversion.

Yes. And Steve, just to maybe, from a commercial perspective, build on the question, from a launch timing perspective, our expectation is that we would be in the market in 2025. And obviously, we are working to be ready for that season in 2025. And then from – a differentiator for us, recall that our coverage covers what is the full prevention season for RSV, which is five months to six months. We are a single fixed dose, not a weight-based administered shot. So, for us, those are all very important things. And the last thing I would note is the site of action for us is really, we think, has low risk of development of resistance and is different than the competition. So, we actually are very bullish on this. I think we don’t talk about it, frankly, because we have so many other good things to talk about. It sometimes gets lost. But it doesn’t mean we are not excited about this and/or dengue, which frankly, I still believe dengue is a little bit, obviously, later than this, but huge for us. So, those were things we are excited about. It just reinforces the breadth of the portfolio we have.

