Robin Vince
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (BK) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Mike, we can't hear you. So we'll come back to you. Maybe we have an issue connecting.

Yeah. Just in the nick of time

So, Mike, it's Robin. And we're not going to quibble with your math or with your English comprehension either from our commentary. You've gotten right what we said. We've intentionally not guided on fees because of the nature of the year and we recognize that there were a lot of different inputs to that. So we recognize that a year can in fact turn out in various different ways. We feel committed to the flat to plus on the operating leverage that we've committed to, and we've guided to how we think the other things are going to play out. And so that was quite deliberate and we're focusing you on the things that we've talked about. But obviously, from a math point-of-view, we understand how the math works.

And Mike, I would just add one thing to that, which is we talked at the beginning of 2023, and you pressed us on this and rightly so in 2023, about the fact that we hadn't before managed to tell the improved expense story that we think we actually ended up tailing on in 2023, and that was an important focus. We also recognize that we were likely to have a good NII year and we took the opportunity of those two things to be able to invest for future fee growth.

We never thought 2023 was likely to be a very strong fee year because the fees take time to be able to generate the return from the investment that we're putting into it through the various different things that Dermot just detailed. And so we've set ourselves up, we think to now be able to really leverage those investments and that's a 2024, 2025, 2026 story. Now, of course, we will stay focused on NII. We'll absolutely stay focused on efficiencies and expenses. We think AI will play a story in that over time, probably not a short-term story, but more of a medium-term story, and that's how the whole thing comes together from an operating leverage point of view. So the way we got there in 2023 is probably going to be different than the way we'll get there in 2024. We're trying to point you to that through the disclosures.

Thank you.

Thanks, Brian.

Hey, Ebrahim.

Ebrahim, I'll just add to that. And we debated this a lot about the fact that you don't have the dollar output guidance on fees. And so, as a result, what we've been trying to do is really make sure that we're communicating to you on all of the inputs to that. But as Dermot said, there is both a market impact potential. We'll have to see how the markets evolve, and there's a bit of a portfolio effect, which is we've really invested in a lot of different places. We have good confidence around the fact that several of those are going to yield something in 2024 and then hopefully continue to yield more in 2025. But it's hard for us to be able to know exactly what's going to hit and exactly when it's going to hit.

So, we've got a confidence on a portfolio basis around those investments, but we don't have the absolute line of sight that makes us comfortable to tell you the exact number in the exact quarter that it's actually going to hit. And so, all we can do is show you the inputs and now point to a year of track record in 2023 around the fact that we have, in fact, made progress on the things that we said we were committed to make progress on.

So, you're right that we have an implied waterfall of how we think about our capital. And the first is to be able to invest it profitably well in the business, and then towards the bottom of that waterfall is, if we have surplus capital after we've taken those things into account, we want to return it to our shareholders, and that's what we've been doing. And so that waterfall hasn't changed in how we think about it.

Now, in terms of M&A, right now, we're focused on what we have and how we think that we can improve it. That's really been the story. Dermot really made the point around running our company better and we think that there's so much opportunity in the franchise to be able to run ourselves better and have the growth that we haven't wanted to distract ourselves with M&A.

Now, we have a high bar. We've had a high bar. We continue to have a high bar, but we are keeping our eyes open. And I think that's the right thing to do, particularly for things that would help us to accelerate our delivery. We're not looking at transformation. We're not looking at big pivots, but we are always interested in things that can, in their own way, speed us on the journey that we've laid out to you.

So, Ken, it's Robin. I'll start off. Dermot might want to add something. Look, I think about this at a fairly high level of us being focused on positive operating leverage, at least until the point that we get to the sort of margin targets that we're talking about, and there's a little bit of work between here and there. And we also recognize that each year is going to have unique factors. And so the year in which we have a fairly significant NII jump of the 24% is going to create different conditions. That allowed us to have a fee year, which was fine but not growing in a meaningful way, and that allowed for some headroom on expenses, which is something that we've used in order to be able to make investments.

Now, 2024 is a different year. It's got a different composition, but every one of the years that we faced has each of these inputs. It has fees, it has NII and it has expenses. And we're trying to be very purposeful around solving for operating leverage in the context of the year that we actually are faced with. And we think that that's the right thing to do, recognizing that markets move around and each year brings -- serves us something different. We manage what's in our control.

Yeah. So the short answer to your question, Glenn, is, yes, we do. And as Dermot has laid out, and we've laid out in the materials particularly, there is a subtly different flavor to the investments that we are making in each of our segments. And so in the Securities Services segment, our focus is on the efficiency and cost to serve as well as growth. We haven't ignored growth, but we recognize that making sure that our margin in that business continues to improve will allow us to be even more competitive because we're the world's largest custodian. We want the benefits of our scale to fully translate into our pricing with customers and the service that we can provide. So it's got a tilt towards efficiency in that business, and there's a lot of digitization that can be brought to bear there. We are excited about the medium-term potential of AI. We're excited about the shorter-term benefits of our new leadership team in operations. And the things that Emily and her team are working on are really targeted to that. But we haven't forgotten about growth in the space, and that's why Dermot mentioned we actually had our best sales quarter at the end of last year in that business.

Now, you're right. In our Market and Wealth Services business, which has a margin that, frankly, we're quite happy with and you haven't heard us talk about growing that margin. We really want to grow that business at that margin, and that's our focus there. So that's really where our drive, drive, drive around more revenues, a lot of our investments around our new business. That's where we built Wove is in that business. And Dermot talked about the Clearance and Collateral Management business, where we've had very significant growth over the course of this year. He talked about the investments that we're making in our Treasury Services business as well, where we've got new.

So that's where we are really wanting to try to grow the overall revenue. And then in our Investment and Wealth Management business, where we've had higher margin before, and now we've been subject, of course, to the more difficult market environments that's driven it down. But that's a place where we'd like to return to our prior margins. A little bit of market would help on that, but also some of the structural changes that we've been making, the new product launches that we've been doing, the opportunity to make investment management part of BNY Mellon as opposed to just a separate piece, not availing itself of the $2.5 trillion-plus of distribution we have, which at the end of the day, was completely orphaned previously from the $2 trillion worth of manufacturing. So the way in which we're solving the problem varies according to the segment.

Thanks, Manan.

Hey, Gerard.

So we don't give specific guidance on the installed base or backlogs, but I would say -- look, I said it in answer to an earlier question and it's in my prepared remarks. We had Q4 sales was our strongest of 2023. We won mandates in the Middle East, asset managers, largest clients given us more business. So, look, we feel very good about what we accomplished in asset servicing in 23, and the team feel very kind of bulled up about 2024 and what the opportunities are in front of them.

And, Rob, I'll just add. It's easy to forget. We've still got a lot of complexity in the world. As Dermot said earlier on, if QT continues, that's one thing. If QT ends, maybe that's to the plus. You've also had a massive run-up in liquidity over the course of the -- in money market funds and other places. We have to see how that gets put to work, or not, as the case may be. Stock market therefore becomes a little bit of a wild card as we see the flow of funds.

So we've still got the complexity of we talk about the fact that the Fed might cut in March. The Fed talks about the fact that they might not cut in March. And so there's enough variation in the exact way that this is going to play out. And that's why Dermot answered one of the earlier questions in the way that he did, around our 10% and the path of it because we just don't have that type of visibility, but we do have the sense that we can kind of work the problem to our current guidance.

Thanks, Rob.

Yeah, Mike. And look, the short answer is, yes, we are excited about AI. We're excited about it. Over the medium term, we stood up in 2023, what we call the AI hub, where we gathered up a bunch of engineers under sort of top talent leadership to really focus on building out a set of capabilities. They worked with every business and every function in the firm to canvas for use cases. We had hundreds of those. We developed a series of different themes for investment because there's a lot of duplication actually, across the different use cases when you think about them on a fundamental functional basis. And then these themes for investment are things that we've actually been investing in. And so we do have things in production. We actually have a piece of software today that is creating predictions for clients in our treasuries business, actually, that looks at fails. We've talked about that before. That's a good example, and that was a very early AI implementation that we made.

And it's actually a piece of software that we currently earn some revenue on as part of our CCM business. It also contributes more broadly to market stability, and it's a great client service. On the flip side of that, the question is going to be, well, for an organization which has as many processes as we have and people performing processes, there's going to be an opportunity there to create more efficiency. And so we've invested in and are investing in that space as well. We're also investing in the employee experience, the opportunity to have AI do tasks which are mundane or repetitive. In one particular case, it's helping our research team get a march on the day, so rather than getting up at 04:00 o'clock in the morning to write research, they get up at 06:00 o'clock in the morning to write research because the AI has given them a rough draft to start with and served up a bunch of data for them.

So there are all sorts of different things. Now, we haven't put it into numbers and so it's not directly in our outlooks in terms of the way that we're thinking about it. But it would not surprise me if this is something that over the course of the next decade is going to be able to provide benefit on the top line and the bottom line. And so we're doing exactly what Dermot said before. We're not talking too much about things that we're still working on, that we can't give you a line of sight into the exact input, but I'm answering the question because you asked it. But we are excited about this under the hood, for sure.

You're welcome.

Thank you, operator. I'd like to close by reiterating that 2023 was an important foundational year for us and that the multiyear transformation of our company is off to a good start. As we begin our company's 240th anniversary year, we're excited about the opportunity ahead of us. I'm immensely proud of everything that our people here at BNY Mellon got done over the past twelve months. I'm grateful to our clients who are leaning into their relationships with BNY Mellon and allowing us the opportunity to serve them in even greater ways. And I appreciate the faith and support that our investors, old and new, have placed in BNY Mellon. Marius and the IR team stand ready to assist you should you have any questions. Be well and enjoy the long weekend.
