Roger Penske
Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (PAG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Okay, John, let me take a shot and have Rich make a comment. But there’s no question that demand for BEVs has slowed. And when you look at our business, 51% of our BEV businesses in California, and of that business, 90% is leased. So right now, the OEMs, in order to push the business in the luxury side at least, or having to lease it and have a residual risk. We think the bridging strategy is certainly going to be as hybrid. And that’s been proven with what [Tony has committed to now going forward with came] [ph] at 100%. 7% of the market was BEV, obviously, last year. And when we look at our day supply, we’re running at about 53 days as of the end of the year.

In the UK, BEV units were really at that point, they were much higher at 36% of the market. The BEV day supply in the UK is 67. So when we step back and look at it, right now, in California, we can’t even get chargers installed at our locations, because there’s not power available to obviously supply them. We see that not only on the retail car side, but also on the truck side. But those are a couple of comments from here. Rich, do you want to follow-up?

The discount is?

GPU, yeah. And also, John, I would have to say that we have action on BEV’s probably 60,000 and below. And when you start looking at inventory above 60, EQS/EQE, 120, 115 days, am I correct?

Our days’ supply, so there’s no question. And we’re starting to see, even in the UK, they added another 1% discount for us on those vehicles last year or last month. Do you have any comment at all from internationally?

All right. Thanks, John.

Hey, Mike.

But even more of a discharge, obviously, technically when they look at it, Shelley’s team along with the auditors look at this, so it wasn’t something that we didn’t expect. And, obviously, we reduced two locations in the U.S. this year, which had been losing money, and we have been able to sell one location, and one will move over to PTS from the standpoint from a leasing and rental location. But as far as the UK is concerned, we think it’s a valued brand, and as we go forward, we’ll continue to operate it. I think we had $150 million value, and we took 27% as a goodwill impairment on that.

So, look, it’s part of doing business, but I’m so glad that we didn’t listen to people about spending it off, let’s say that…

Oh, not at all. When you look at it right now, I think we mentioned it earlier, our lease business was up 21%, and our logistics business was up 5%. Unfortunately, we’d run our rental fleet to almost 90,000 units, and of course, as the market slowed, spot rates came down. Our utilization went down from 88 down to roughly 82, and I think that gave us an excess supply. On top of that, a lot of those pieces were being used to support leases that we had written when we were at 70,000 units on order and couldn’t get them from the manufacturers. We were using some rental units, so those will now come back as we’ve seen the supply start to come in.

Our issue is that we have approximately 16,000 to 18,000 units for sale. And to get those out, that’s about 8,000 more than we had a year ago. We’re paying depreciation, interest and maintenance on those as they sit. So we’ll have to pull that stuff through. And I would say that impact will continue through the first quarter. So I would say we’d be similar as far as value and actually earnings in the first quarter, similar to what we had in Q4 based on lower rental volume, both.

And on the consumer side, which is our one-way business, there’s less people moving because of house prices. And when they do move, it looks like the mileage is down. So that’s really hit us. And then the company had $213 million, I think roughly of total interest cost increase in 2023, 100 of that based on new debt and 100 on refinance. So gain on sale. financing lower revenue and rental really impacted us. But from an energy standpoint meaning from an offense in sales we were up in our core products.

With the extension, Mike, of some 28,000 older units that we had to extend from, say, 6 to 12 months. Those two things each up on maintenance number one; and number two, we don’t get any margin on that extension revenue so that had a double impact on us.

Hi, Daniel.

Welcome.

Well, look, number one, we know the market stabilized because as we look at our wholesale units both in the UK and the U.S. were profitable in Q4. That’s point number one. And point number two, I think availability – one of the things that’s impacted us is getting the right car at the right price. Certainly, as a car shop, we were looking in the U.S. at somewhere between, say, 19,000 and 22,000. Well, those cars that we could get were almost 10,000 more from the standpoint of being able to get them to purchase and then sell them. Same thing in the UK. Well, I think what’s going on now is we’re starting to see those numbers come down as, I guess you say, deflation on unused vehicles in the UK.

But more importantly, with leasing being down to somewhat 25% in the past 2 years, and we haven’t had, obviously, the lease returns have not come back, and probably even more important is in the premium side, I think we have, what Shelley, 6,000 or 7,000 loaner cars in the premium side, I’ll give you an exact number

We’re returning those units anywhere from 60 to 90 to 120 days and those are great used car units. We really didn’t have those because I can tell you in our big BMW store at Grovia [ph] in California, they’re running used cars almost 12 months. So we didn’t have the ability to take them out and those would become really prime used cars. So that’s going to help us as we go forward. And certainly on the overall, it gives us a chance to have more units, 7,200 units, maybe more that we could sell. And we put through the system, which is key for us.

Rich, any other comment you have?

Yeah, I’ll let Rich answer that one directly.

I think, Rich, also, when you look at our fixed coverage, we’re running at 120%-plus.

And, I think we’re utilizing tools to be more efficient. We’ve also been able to fill a lot of the mechanics’ requirements that we couldn’t get during the COVID time. We’re now seeing them come in, and our turnover really has been down. So I would say we’ve put more service trucks on the road going out to the customers, too, which has certainly also been a benefit. So I think through our acquisitions that we’ll see that we’ll start to get some more traction there to putting in some of the same conditions and action plans we have in the core business.

All right. Thanks, Daniel.

Hey, Rajat.

I’d make one comment, Rajat, that we’re seeing internationally, Ferrari and Porsche, Lamborghini, some of those big cars that are now in the $200,000, $300,000 range. People could drive them for a year and come back and trade them to be able to get into the next car. So we’re seeing some people are saying, look, I’ll keep my car for another year. So that’s having some impact on canceled orders where we have to resell those at a lower margin. But I wouldn’t say it’s dramatic, but I think it’s something we should know…

Yeah, in the fourth quarter. Yeah.

And those are products that we can sell to the premium lease customer, too, which is helpful.

But it’s only 32% of our revenues coming from the actual reserves. And flat, we would get on leasing.

Yeah, thanks.

Hi, David.

Well, I guess, let’s look at the different businesses. We are actively looking in the premier truck side. There’s no question in Europe. We had the opportunity with Rybrook, 16 locations. We have a number of opportunities here in the U.S. And, I would say we look primarily where we already have scale, so we can consolidate our back offices, our management team with Rybrook. We looked at the business at Pendragon, and when we looked at that business in conjunction with Hedin, we had central offices, we’d have to deal with Rybrook. We just bought the stores and plugged them right in. So we want to look where we have the least amount of additional SG&A, and that would be a key factor. And I think, right now, we’re seeing the prices coming down to a more realistic timeframe. And, obviously, with $1.7 billion of capital available, we’ve got plenty of firepower [ph] to make a big move or small moves. But, again, they’re going to be strategic.

I think we look at them one at a time. I mean, we’re – it’s not – we don’t have a goal to grow the truck at some speed or else. I want to see a minimum of $1 billion worth of new business that we would generate for 2024 on an annualized basis. That would be across the entire portfolio.

Well, look, I think as we’ve done before, we look at CapEx, we look at dividend, we look at acquisition, we look at buybacks and I think that we certainly will look at that to continue, the board has to approve those buybacks and make recommendations to us. But at this point, we would continue with our buybacks.

Well, look, I think, Daniel, the key thing, David, is that we were paying money for used cars. It was almost, in some cases, near what they could buy a new car for. So the amount of gross profit that was available to us from an advanced rate from the finance company. Remember, we financed a lot of the used cars, left us a very small margin. As the cost of sale comes down now, it’s going to give us a chance. Now, we’ve got interest rates pushing that up on a finance deal, but I think we’re going to see our margins will increase as we go forward. And I feel good about the used car business. We want to turn the loaner cars. All these things are going to help us as we go forward, especially on the premium side. And hopefully we’ll start to get some lease returns. You talked about advantageous buying 250 cars from Mercedes, I think, in last year and in the fourth quarter. So these things will start to help us that we can execute on.

And what was it doing? What it was a year before?

Car numbers coming down. We can see the sale price of car shop. So I’m not sure exactly what it is, but I know it’s coming down and that’s going to help us get back in the sweet spot

We’re not competing with, what I call, the OEM dealership, right? We’re going to be done in this, it’s a different market.

All right, David. Thank you.

Yeah, Brad, thanks. Good quarter. We had some headwind, obviously, but feel good about the balance of the year. Obviously, we talked about battery electric vehicle that’s going to be a big focus on us and how we deal with that as we go forward here. So thanks, again. We’ll talk to you next quarter.