Ryan Lance
ConocoPhillips (COP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Neil. No. We see a bit of deacceleration in the growth rate coming from the U.S., driven by a number of factors around efficiency and the rig rates. So we would peg the growth, but we’re still growing in the Lower 48 and we’d peg that growth at between 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent to 500,000 barrels of oil equivalent. That’s total liquids. So, yeah, we still see some growth coming from the U.S. shale, the Lower 48, primarily driven out of the Permian. But more modest relative to last year’s growth.

Relative to our expected Lower 48, we’re in that same range, low to single-digit kind of growth rates coming out of that on pretty much similar activity level to what we entered into 2023. So we don’t intend -- at this time, we don’t intend to be ramping our program in the Lower 48 and are coming into the year at a similar level to what we exited 2023 at.

Good morning.

Yeah. Thanks, Doug. I’ll let Dominic roll in. He can give you some specifics around the breakeven, but at our mid-cycle price kind of deck, I think, it’s pretty consistent with what we laid out at AIM. And I can let Dominic give you a few more details to answer that question more specifically.

Yeah. In light of arguably a softer commodity price relative to where we started in 2023.

Good morning.

Yeah. Roger, I appreciate you. There’s obviously a lot of M&A activity going on. There’s a lot of pricing in our business and we’ve said that all along that we think there’s going to be more even yet to come as we think about the consolidation that’s needed in the business.

Our approach hasn’t changed. Our approach is, we think about cost of supply, we think about the framework that we’ve laid out to the market over the last four years or five years. That’s how we’ve executed some of our M&A activities.

So, again, it’s got to fit that financial framework, how we think about mid-cycle price. It’s got to make our 10-year plan better. The plan that we outlined to the market last year, we think is pretty strong and it’s underpinned by a low cost of supply, diverse asset base.

So, we’ve got to see a way to make that plan better through any inorganic M&A and then, finally, we’ve got to see a way to make the asset better and that’s really dictated how we’ve approached M&A over the last number of years, and I think, as we think about it going forward, that approach is consistent.

Yeah. Thanks, Lloyd. I can chime in and maybe ask Bill to add a few more details as well. But it’s unfortunate, it’s clearly more politically driven than fundamental, but I think we feel pretty good. It just makes us feel a little bit better about what we’re doing on the LNG side, because of what we do have permitted. I think it’s quite short-sighted in the short-term. Hopefully it will be fixed in the long-term. I can -- Bill can provide maybe a few more specifics around how we’re thinking about Port Arthur Phase 1, Phase 2, as we think about the implications of what was announced.

Yeah. And I just reiterate, we just don’t want to whipsaw the team’s either up or down. We just like the constant pace of the execution and find that gets the efficiencies at a maximum, gets our returns. It really maximizes our returns.

Yeah. Sam, I can let Nick follow up on some of the details. But, certainly, we look at any opportunity to term out things when we see that opportunity. And I think the service side of the business, I think, likes ConocoPhillips, because our plans don’t change and we have consistent execution and consistent rate counts and frac spreads and all the other support activity that goes with the business. And the deflation, it’s kind of a tale of a couple different areas and certain commodities to spend. But I can let Nick chime in specific to the Lower 48 there.

Yeah. Ryan, just talk first on Eagle Ford.

When you look at Q3 to Q4, we had that 9% production drop. That met our type curve expectations. There’s no productivity issues or operational concerns there. It was a conscious decision. As we looked at the second half of 2023 and as we’ve talked about the completion efficiencies are actually outpacing our drilling efficiency.

So it’s a good problem to have. So we’ve worked down through kind of our working level of ducks and decided on the second half of 2023 to take what I call an operational frack gap. So we built some ducks in that period of time and then reinstated late 2023 the frack group. So it’s really intentional, really good performance from the Eagle Ford going forward.

Bakken, very similar. We’ve hit some production records. You think about a legacy asset like the Bakken, we were hitting 110,000 barrels equivalent per day. We’ve got a long level of inventory. We’ll have a steady program up there as well.

Yeah. I’ll first talk about just the overall efficiency assumptions that we have and what we’re seeing out in the field. To remind you on both D and C, we continue to see step changes in both the drilling side, as well as the completion side. Probably differential on the completion efficiencies, as I just mentioned, related to Eagle Ford.

And we’re leveraging all of the different kind of suite of opportunities to improve those frac efficiencies and drilling efficiency. I’ll just mention a few. And the key thing here is that we’re continuing to see improvement kind of quarter-to-quarter, year-to-year. And that manifests itself into essentially a 10% to 15% improvement in our pumping hours per day, year-to-year.

A couple items that we have out there, we continue to deploy simul frac across the Board, but also super zipper down in Eagle Ford. We’ve had really good success of this particular application or we can hook up, for example, on a four-well pad, we’ll hook up all of the wells and if we have any operational downtime, we can quickly move from well-to-well and have high pumping hours, and therefore, more stages per day. So that’s been really successful.

On the -- we also remote frac. I’ve mentioned that before. We’ve seen good success in that where we don’t have to mow and de-mow the frac spread so we can move on to Pad 2, Pad 3 without de-mowing it.

And then, finally, I’ll just pivot to the drilling side. We’ve deployed that real-time drilling intelligence group out in the Permian. We’ve got the entire rig fleet that we’re monitoring 24x7 where we can optimize the plan, we can troubleshoot, and we can steer the wells and we’re seeing really promising results, 10% improvement in rate of penetration there. So combined through all of that, we are seeing improvement in those efficiencies. And again, 10% to 15% improvement in pump hours per day, as I mentioned on the collision side.

Yeah. You kind of stuck in a couple there, Paul. But let me start with the last one first. The $9 billion, as we said in our release, is a starting point. We recognize the commodity prices are pretty volatile, both up and down. I mean, we’ve seen WTI approaching 60 and we’ve seen it approaching 80. So I think you view the $9 billion as a starting point.

And folks should feel pretty comfortable that we’re well above our mid-cycle price. We’re well above our 30% commitment to return capital to the shareholders, and again, look at our history. So you should feel comfortable that we’ll adjust. It’s a starting point for us. And we’ll see how the commodity prices go through the remainder of the year.

On the second part, look, we consider the balance sheet to be a pretty significant asset inside the company. We are -- we will maintain an A credit rating. The balance sheet is strong for the company. We’ve got a 2.5 net debt turn to cash. So we like where the balance sheet is at and it gives us the cushion in these volatile commodity prices to be able to return the money that we’re spending and sending both to grow the company organically and the distribution level that we’re starting with at the $9 billion.

We’ll -- again, on the M&A side, Paul, it’s really what kind of opportunities present themselves that have to fit our financial framework, and if they fit our framework and there’s something that we can make better, makes our 10-year plan better, we’ve been willing to execute those. But we’ll look at the way we execute those on a case-by-case basis.

Surmont we funded with some debt, but it made sense for that particular asset to do that. We’ve used cash and other means to fund the acquisition. So it’s pretty hard to say, depending on any opportunities that present themselves, what we might do.

It depends on the circumstance, Paul. I don’t -- we’re not going to stress the balance sheet. So we are not -- we’ve worked hard to get the balance sheet where it’s at today. We are not -- I’m not interested in going back to where we were seven years, eight years ago on the balance sheet.

