Ryan Marshall
PulteGroup, Inc. (PHM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Carl, so Bob highlighted in the prepared remarks that we - specifically in Q4, October, November were really below expectations, and it was driven by high rates. We had a great December, highest month in the quarter in terms of absolute sales and absorptions per community. So, that was certainly an anomaly for typical December seasonal patterns. And the strength has really continued into January, Carl.

So, we’re feeling pretty good about how the year is starting. In terms of kind of where it sets us up for reduced discounts, increased prices, we're going to watch it closely, and I think we've demonstrated through past behavior that we're always looking to find the sweet spot between pace and price. It won't come as a surprise to you, Carl, that affordability with the buyers remains a challenge. And so, I think we're going to have to be thoughtful about what we do on both the incentive and the price increase front, but we're feeling pretty good about how the year started.

Yes. Carl, our move-up business performed incredibly well in the quarter. We had, on a year-over-year basis, the growth was north of 70%. So, I think that segment performed very well. The margins out of our move-up, as well as our Del Webb business continue to be some of our best gross margins. So, we're seeing real financial strength there also. And then in terms of kind of community mix, Carl, we're kind of right in line with where our long-term strategic targets are in terms of kind of that part of our business being about 35% of our overall mix. So, we feel pretty good about where that business is positioned.

Yes. Matt, thanks for the question. We feel really good about how we position the land pipeline. We've been investing for growth for a number of years, and we've been trying to do it in a very responsible way specific to having less owned and more optioned land. The fact that over the last 15 months, we've made significant headway with our land banking platform, has helped with that.

So, we really like the number of lots that we have under control at 225,000 plus or minus. And we like the ownership structure, or the way that we've controlled those lands. We think it's a really capital-efficient structure. Specific to your growth target number, yes, we’re going to be at the lower end for 2024. Beyond that, we feel that we've got the right structure to kind of be in that range for future periods.

Yes, John, we didn't give a specific increase out of December. We kept more of our commentary around the qualitative side of things, which I'd reiterate, we're very pleased with how things are performing in January, and we'd expect that strength to continue.

So, we continue to be in a situation where there's low supply. Affordability has definitely gotten better. You heard Bob's comment about kind of what we've assumed with our incentive load. So, yes, I'd expect us to have a strong Q1. The one thing - other thing I'd offer that's probably of note is we're starting to see some real signs of life in our western markets. Those have been - that's been a part of the country that was slow for the majority of kind of 2022 and most all of 2023. But in the last 30 to 45 days, we’re really starting to see those markets pick up, which is a welcomed outcome.

Honestly, I'm going to defer. We typically do - we report the news on that. I think you highlight, we've done about $1 billion a year the last couple of years. We have $.8 billion in cash. We have offered that we project about $1.8 billion of cash flow from operations in the current year. So, our capital allocation priorities don't change. We've said we're going to increase our land investment to $5 billion. That's up about 16% year-over-year. We increased our dividend 25%. That's not a huge cash element, but still, I think reflective of our confidence in the business. We do have $.8 billion of authorization. And like I said, we'll report the news. You saw this year we bought back $100 million of our notes because it was attractive. The rate environment has made that a little less attractive, but we always look at liability management as part of the equation. So, really no change to our capital allocation priorities.

Yes, Stephen, so a couple things there. We are increasing our land spend in 2024 from $4.3 billion to $5 billion. Our mix of developed spend versus land acquisition spend will continue to probably be about 60% development, 40% land acq. And then our long-term desire is to have 70% of our land control via option. We highlighted in the prepared remarks, this year we moved that from 48% option to 53% controlled via option. So, we're - I think both in - we demonstrated through results over the past number of years as well as kind of articulated long-term goals, we want to be land lighter. We're going to continue to do it the right way, all with an eye toward delivering a lower risk model that's very capital-efficient as well.

Yes. Stephen, in terms of years owned, we'd expect to probably keep that right around the level that we're at, maybe a slight decrease. And then ultimately, we would start to flip from a years owned to years option. You'll see a little bit of a trade in that mix.

Yes, I don't know that there's kind of a hard and fast answer to that, Stephen. It depends on the mix of the business that we've got. In terms of margin, it can be a couple of hundred basis points on a relative basis. And in terms of inventory turns, certainly it's going to be more efficient than a bulk raw transaction. But it depends on the life of the asset. So, it in Del Webb, it's going to be very different than it is in the Centex business for us. So, I wouldn't want to paint that with too broad a brush.

Yes, Joe, we've - I think the reason we've assumed that the incentive load stays about where it is just because affordability continues to be challenged. So, we've got low supply but interest rates are relatively higher. And because of low supply, I think there's still some pressure on prices being elevated historically. So, we talked a lot in 2023 about how successful we were in helping to solve some of the affordability challenges with the incentive dollars that we put toward the forward mortgage commitments. We'll continue to use that as a tool in 2024. Now, as rates fall, we think the cost of those forwards mortgage rate commitments will become less. We've made an assumption that we reallocate some of those incentive dollars to other things that help to solve the affordability challenge and get a buyer into their home. So, is it conservative? Time will tell. I think what you've seen from us historically is, we're not afraid to raise price. We're not afraid to cut discounts, and we're always looking to optimize pace and price. You've also heard me talk the last several quarters, we're not going to be margin proud. So, we’re doing things to be responsive to what the market is, to derive an outcome that yields the best return for our shareholders. And you'll see us actively managing all things, pace, price, incentives, forward, more forward mortgage commitments, et cetera.

Yes, Mike, I'll take the first part of that, and then I'll have Bob do the last piece. So, we're up 50 basis points from Q3. We were 6% in Q3, 6.5% in Q4. In terms of what that means for 2024, I think I addressed it on a prior call. We're going to actively be managing our incentive load, but we've shared with you what our assumption is in kind of current form. If there's an opportunity to peel those back, we'll do it and we'll certainly share that with you. In terms of kind of the quarters that it would impact, right now about 50% - somewhere around 50% of our sales are spec. so, those are closing in kind of the following quarter. Spec sales now would either be late Q1 closings or early Q2 closings. If it's a dirt sale, Q1 closings typically end up being Q3 or early Q4 closing. So, we factored all of those assumptions into the margin guide that we gave for the year, which is 28% to 28.5%, just to repeat that. And then Bob, I don't know if you have the incentive load for Q1, Q2. I think that was the only piece I didn't answer.

Yes, Mike, we've - I think we've always been thoughtful in how we spend SG&A dollars. We have historically made some extra investments in the quality of the homes that we build and deliver and the customer experience that we provide for our homeowners. And then we - and we invest incremental dollars in the culture of our workforce. So, we’ve tried to maintain balance within the SG&A structure as well. We're not trying to run kind of the leanest and the lean - on the lean end, we're also not trying to overspend. I think we're trying to be very balanced. In terms of the leverage for 2024 specifically, we've kind of given the guide, which will put us kind of in the low nines. And that's really reflective of kind of what Bob guided too on the average sales price, which we're expecting to be flat. And against that, you've still got wage inflation for kind of our internal employees running close to 3.5%, 4%. So, there's some pressure. There's pressure on the SG&A front that we're not necessarily getting the benefit of on the ASP increase side. So, in terms of kind of where it goes into the future, time will tell, but we’ve given the best visibility that we can for 2024. Bob, I don’t know if you - anything you'd add on SG&A. Bob keeps us honest, I'll tell you that. We're not overspending anywhere, at least not under Bob's watch.

Yes, in the fourth quarter, it was $105,000 per unit, so it's down about $4,000 versus the prior year. And so, I think that speaks to the sales team, and I give them a lot of credit. Where we've needed incentive has been less around options and lot premiums and more oriented towards financing. So, we didn't see a big change there, which I think is a real positive. It also is - interestingly, for that move-up in active adult buying, we've highlighted the relative strength from them in this quarter and the relative pricing strength there. So, just like our first time was down about 6%, our move-up pricing was actually flat quarter-over-quarter, and our active adult was actually tough 3%. And I think it's reflective of the way we go to market, the way we sell the lots that we've got, the options that people put in houses. So, our teams are still doing a really good job of providing value for that which people desire.

It's an interesting question. Certainly, the land banking would be finished lots. But for the optionality that we have with individual sellers, many of those were self-developing. And so, I don't - I don’t know, Jim, if you …

Sorry, I want to make sure I understand the …

How much of it is options?

Yes. So, of the $105,000 of option and lot premium, $80,000 is options, $25,000, that's lots premium. I could say for instance, lot premiums are pure margin. I'm not sure that that's fair, right? Pricing doesn't really work that way. But in terms of the option spend, typically it's going to have a relatively rich margin mix, call it, 50%. And so, it is accretive to the overall margin. And the way we try and go to market, Ken, and I don’t know if this answers it better, we put a base price house that we think is kind of market standard and what people can and should expect to pay for that house. Then we start talking about, okay, which lot do you want? What are you willing to pay for that lot? That's what generates the $25,000. And then, okay, now in the house, if we're offering optionality - and we don't for everyone, right? So, for the Centex buyer, we may have curated packages or no choices at all. But for the folks that can do structural options for fit and finish, that's what's driving that $80,000 in incremental revenue.

Yes, it’s a fair question. Based on the total amount of production that's happening, I don't see the industry stressing the labor availability. I'm not suggesting there's a whole bunch of excess labor running around out there, but at least for the big builders, I think we've got great trade relationships, and I think we'll continue to get, not only schedule performance, but the labor on our job sites. I think the pressure likely comes on dollars before - or more so than time. If we're running into labor pinches because of a volume increase, I think it's probably dollars more than time. A lot of the decreases that we'll take, it'll be because we're getting things on a predictable schedule like we used to pre-COVID. So, that's working better, which allows us to take some kind of dead days out of our schedule that we had - we built in for things to go wrong or for time when we were just literally waiting for material to show up. So, it’s a little bit of that, a little bit of, we're just getting back to the cycle times that we had pre-COVID. So, we trimmed out about 30 or so days in 2024, or in 2023, rather. We think we can get another 30 or so days by the end of 2024, and we'll be back largely in line with pre-COVID cycle times.

Yes, Alan, it continues to go well. We have two plants today. Both are focused in the southeast part of the US. Our growth plans are still largely on target. Still largely on target to have approximately eight factories. So, we haven't announced anything new. Similar to our share buybacks, we'll probably report the news on that as opposed to give forward-looking forecast.

Yes, Alan, so that's - we haven't given a bunch of guidance on that just because it is concentrated into a couple of markets, and we don't feel it's appropriate to extrapolate the entire enterprise yet. As we get further down the path, we'll share more. Conceptually, it's exactly what you highlighted. We're getting cycle time improvements. We're getting better quality, and there are some raw material cost savings that we believe we're getting as well.

Yes, Susan, I wouldn't anticipate a massive change from the percentage. We're probably on the higher end of the range that we'll have in spec right now. Specific to the fourth quarter, we put more spec starts in the ground than what we sold, and that was intentional. We wanted to have some additional inventory going into the spring selling season, which we have. So, as we move throughout the year, probably right in line with where we're at or a tad lower.

Yes, Susan, with the rate cuts that are forecasted, I don't see it being at a level that's going to unleash a tidal wave of resale inventory. So, is it better than where we're at today? Certainly. Will that start to free up some resale inventory? I think so. And I think that's probably helpful against the backdrop of, we continue to be under-supplied in the country. So, on balance, I don't think it has much impact at all on what we're projecting for our business in 2024.

Yes, Rafe, it's a fair question. The homes that we're starting today will deliver in kind of late - so homes we’re starting today will deliver in Q2 basically. So, no, we're not at the 100 days yet. Now, that being said, there are some markets and some communities where we’re at the 100 days, and in fact, we were at the 100 days last year. When you blend it all together, we think it'll be Q4 before we're at the 100 days that we've highlighted as our goal.

Yes, so - sorry, I forgot the first part of the question.

Oh, I think I got it. I'm sorry. Yes, we - listen, it's interesting. Land prices don't come down very often. They're sticky. And we've seen, and we've highlighted sort of sequential increases in lot costs. I would tell you that the land we're seeing today is consistent with that. Prices are pretty robust and it's a pretty competitive landscape out there. We underwrite to return. And so, it's - we look to see, can we get return out of that. So, I think no change honestly in the land market. In terms of the inflationary aspect, what we are seeing is that that labor constraint influences the development of land, just like it does building of houses. And with general cost inflation that we were seeing last year in particular, it was influencing the spends of type. Everything that we do to do the development of the communities was running pretty hot too. So, again, we've highlighted, we think it's going to be a little bit more expensive in terms of our lot increase this year for 2024. And again, I think that just reflects all the activity that was going on and some of the cost inflation that we saw in 2023 feeding into our lots this year in 2024. The good news is, the vertical, we're seeing a pretty benign in that market, whereas that had been running pretty hot last year obviously. So, the slowdown in inflation, we feel it now in the house. Hopefully, we'll feel that a little bit later and land. It would be an opportunity for us, for sure.