Sandy Douglas
United Natural Foods, Inc. (UNFI) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah, Mark. This is Sandy. Thanks for your question. I guess we're looking at several factors. If you look at the fourth quarter and consider the momentum of the business, the addition back of performance incentives for executives, you get to a fairly low run rate. You add back then the actions that we've taken most of which we've already captured and you get sort of in the range of our mid-point. The external environment continues to be pretty soft. So I think we're going to manage our way this year and we're taking a number of initiatives to try to optimize the results. But the net of all of those factors gave us the range that we provided today.

Yeah. I mean, you can't really generalize about independence. There is some incredibly strong and vibrant ones, and then some they're struggling. This community is the focus of our whole product service makeup. I mean, it's our job to help them succeed. I think broadly compared to independents in syndicated data, our customers are outperforming the market by a small margin. But we've got a lot of programs and you mentioned two of them, brands and services that are designed to provide independents with a great owned brand program at multiple price points and then services that help them save money and compete better. In the end, their success is the most important priority we have.

Thanks.

John, it's Sandy. Let me come at this a couple of ways, and then I'll ask John Howard to add to my comments. Definitely, we saw an out-of-pattern increase in procurement gains beginning in January of '22 and that lasted for a year before the year-over-year disinflation started and that generated numbers in line with your estimates. And that was the out-of-pattern part. You've got really two things going on there. You've got actual price increase events both the frequency and depth, and then you have promotions. And we saw a decline in promotions while prices were going way up.

What we expect to happen is that as price increase events decline, we expect promotions to come back, although they've done so very slowly. But as we look forward and we see units continuing to be soft, the consumer to be stressed, and inflation now returning to lower levels, we definitely expect consumer products companies to start promoting more. They'll need to in order to drive sales and so we'll see a positive there. The out-of-pattern high number of price events have kind of returned back to more normal levels. We're still cycling the higher ones as John mentioned in his comments. But net-net-net from a run rate perspective, we'd expect that to be slightly positive as promotions come back. John, do you want to add anything?

Hey, John. I'll answer that strategically, and I'll let John pick apart the pieces. The refreshment of our Board from our point of view is going to strengthen our offense. We have a transformation plan and the strategy that we're investing in and that we are excited about and confident that it's going to make a significant difference. Now, we're in the investment phase. So it is obviously out there in the future that the benefits will come. But I think as a Board, new members and old members alike, we are aligned on the importance of that.

With the financial review with the new Board and the new skill sets, it's just going to help us make sure that we're sweating every decision we make in the most detailed way to ensure that not only are we driving the transformation strategy, but we're also maximizing returns to shareholders on a strong basis. We have strong liquidity. We have the resources we need to invest in the plan, but we want to make sure that every stakeholder of ours, customers, suppliers, and shareholders are getting the best possible return. John?

Sure. Hi, Leah. Sandy here. The specific answer to contracts is that a significant amount of that work has been done to assess them. There I would bucket the opportunities into immediate action, contractual improvement opportunities that obviously take time, and then projects in particular categories, for example, where we may be experiencing unsatisfactory economics where we need to work with a supplier to change how we go to market. And so, a significant amount of the quick wins have been captured. The longer-term contractual ones are obviously being done in partnership with our customers or suppliers depending on where the contract sits. And the projects are obviously more ongoing.

In terms of increasing our outlook, I would say that area has been an area that's been helpful. And remember that a lot of that is necessary to offset increases in operating expenses. And that makes sense to both suppliers and retailers. But we're going to make sure that every single one of our agreements is fair, it's modern, it's consistent and that is thoughtful relative to the new characteristics of the given situation. And so that's where a lot of the plus side has come. The rest of the program is, as we've described SKU optimization, zero-based budgeting, flattening the organization to be more agile and more effective, and all of those programs are on schedule.

Sure. I think, obviously, we haven't given an outlook for years past fiscal '24. And we intend to continue to refine our assumptions. And as we get the implementation plans laid down specifically, we'll have a more specific outlook for those years. But from my point of view, the opportunity, as I said in my script, that we see in the transformation agenda to make this company more profitable and to allow it to grow faster and create more value for customers and suppliers is significant. And beyond that, we haven't really provided public information. But it's a -- we view the opportunity as significant. It's the simplest way to put it.

In that particular line, I believe we were talking about the total market.

Service levels, I don't know that we mentioned it, but we are seeing service levels improve sequentially. I think we mentioned last quarter that they were up about 10 percentage points versus 12 months before and they are remaining at that level.

Scott, I'm going to answer that with the information that we've provided, unfortunately, which won't give you all the answer to that because there is some competitive sensitivity there. But before I do, let me make sure in your first question, you asked a question about market share. And I want to make sure we're connecting exactly on what the universe is. The universe that we're outperforming is just the supermarket channel. It's basically like-for-like. It's not inclusive of discounters and club stores. So if you're comparing it to customers that are like our customers, we're performing slightly better than the broader market.

On the question around automation, as I mentioned in my script, we are going live in our first one. We had several other projects started. Our pace will be directly related to the capability and confidence we get in our ability to run those projects effectively and how many of them we can do at a given time. They have a wide range of benefits. Probably a very important one of those is the economic value they create.

And as we get full confidence and visibility into that, that will then dictate exactly what the end footprint looks like. Right now, we're going to the most obviously productive sites, and that was what we announced in our first agreement with Symbotic. We also had some each-pick automation that we're doing in parallel. It's more tactical. But in the end, we will automate our distribution system in a very disciplined and economic way, and the speed will directly relate to our capability to do it well.

Thank you, Scott.

I think principally Kelly, we do, because we have now experienced Q3 and Q4 of last year. And we have the ability now with all of that data to triangulate in on the data sources that we have and project it forward for Q1 and Q2. And the numbers John described in his script are how that's weighing on the P&L for fiscal '24. I would go further to say that we have learned from that a lot about how our margin operates through our distribution systems and that's helping us create value, not just forecast.

Sure, Kelly. This answer is going to frustrate you. But you may have some more information than I do on this. What we're seeing is we're seeing suppliers talk about accelerating promotions. Their actions are slightly behind their words. But because of the fact that inflation is coming down and unit velocity is not matching it on a one-to-one basis, it's logical to us that we will see supplier promotions improve and that's what we believe they saying. It's what they're telling us.

But it looks to be gradual and it may be a function of fiscal years and how next year, which most of the suppliers are calendar fiscal, will begin. But from a supplier perspective, we're seeing it slowly increase, but it's still below pre-pandemic levels. From a retailer perspective, we're seeing promotions accelerate as retailers look to drive their price positioning, particularly those that are price-positioned. But as suppliers get more promotional, we are here to help them get a return and to invest more.

Well, listen, when you look at our retail business, which is I think about 10% of our business, we have an extraordinary brand franchise in Cub, which is the market leader in the Twin Cities area. Twin Cities is a typical U.S. market and it's prone to all the challenges that we see across the country. Reducing federal assistance, student loans coming back. There's plenty of pressure on the consumer.

There is also a significant amount of price competition in the market and we're seeing that it's a big market for -- home market for one discounter. It's a big market for another and we're seeing all kinds of competitive activity. So our team has doubled down on that and they are investing in promotions to try to retain and grow their customer count. And then, they are also experiencing higher than pattern labor expenses. So that's impacted their profitability.

From a more broad standpoint, and our outlook for our retail business is incorporated in our guidance. So but that brand -- the Cub brand is a strong brand and we expect it to succeed going forward. As it relates to kind of market shifts, there is clearly pressure in the market coming from discounters. They're investing and they are taking share. And that's evident in the syndicated data.

What our job is to try to make sure that our independence and our customers in general are equipped with the best cost, the best promotional investments, and programs to help them compete effectively, and to outperform their peer set first, and to gain share in the market. And many of them are. Many of them are doing very well. I would say sales in general are soft at this stage, and we're going to continue to work to try to outperform the market. But our guidance incorporates that kind of an outlook.


I don't think we've disclosed that number externally. But it will be -- for all six stores, it will be a few million dollars.

Yeah, Kelly. This is Sandy. What I would say is A, we haven't given out year guidance or really any specific strategic planning information largely because we're in the first year of really starting to roll out our transformation. But if you look at the $400 million in our capital budget, the majority of it is focused on transformation. A minority being kind of the maintenance capital that keeps our system going. So we pivoted to investing in changing the profile of the company and accelerating profitable growth.

Our plans going forward will be -- with our newly constituted Board and the financial review will be to rigorously go through all expenditures and make sure that every investment we make in this coming year and forward delivers not only maximum transformation benefits but also outsized shareholder returns. And so, we wouldn't be in a -- able to give out year guidance on this. But the process by which we will set that will be rigorous and will be designed to drive the transformation and deliver shareholder returns.

Sure. Thanks, Peter. Shrink is an important opportunity for us. As we mentioned last year, the shrink levels in our business have increased significantly over the past few years. They are driven by four main categories, procurement, inventory gains or losses, damages, and spoilage. And all four of those have different root causes.

And we've stood up a team to look at each of them and to manage them rigorously. We've identified root causes. We're rolling out new processes and training across our system. And the entire management system is producing some early results. We haven't disclosed the specific component of shrink improvement that's in our guidance, but we see the opportunity has being significant and multi-year starting with this fiscal year.

Yeah. That's a knowledgeable question. The answer to that is yes, that helps. Overall operations improves as turnover those down and that's a core part of our people strategy in our system. And that's not just shrink. It's in all aspects of customer service and efficiency. But in addition to folks being more experienced, there are also process and system improvements they're willing out to try to take the variability out. And we've identified where the root causes are. And we're in the process of rolling out the improvements. And I expect this number to get better as we go forward.

Sure. So let me start by saying that every dollar of capital that we allocate is scrutinized through several different angles. Maintenance capital is by definition, maintenance capital. But what we have done is, we've taken the transformation agenda and the capital that's embedded and I think I mentioned in the previous question that it's about two-thirds of the total capital, that's not all incremental. We've actually sweated through the maintenance capital and kind of zero-based it to try to source some of it. So the increase is not equal to the total of the transformation.

And I would say the biggest load of the capital right now is operational. It's automation and network-related which is focused on -- I mean there are top-line benefits because customer service and customer experience gets better. But the big payoff is actually in efficiencies in the supply chain and then the ability to get more efficient growth out of the buildings that exist. An automated building can actually produce a whole lot more sales than one that's not. And that gives you return on capital. That gives you working capital benefits, et cetera.

So, our transformation agenda, certainly, it's focused on creating a great customer experience and enabling UNFI to serve the maximum number of customers in categories profitably. But in doing that, we want to have a system that works very efficiently. And then do then sort of the non-capital side of our transformation which is more about how we work with suppliers and how we make the commercial system work is how do we fully activate that using data to create growth and to earn profitability as we generate growth for some of the bigger profit pools in the system which come out of our suppliers. So it's a very general answer. But if you want to follow up, Andy, I'm happy to answer.

Yeah. I mean, it's sort of which side of it, do you look at it. There's definitely operating margin improvement, check. But there's returns on capital improvement to the extent that you can move more sales through a building and not have to build a new building. Now is that sales or is that just getting better asset productivity and driving returns up? Well, it's both. But the -- I think we talked about in previous calls, there's a -- this is a low-margin business. So sales drives a low gross margin. To the extent that it can be done in a capital efficient way, that's going to create returns immediately for shareholders.

To the extent that we have more customers. Besides the gross margin, it also increases attractiveness to our suppliers who will then invest to try to grow with the customer base that we have. That's one of our biggest assets and one of our biggest opportunities. So very few of these investments have just one stream of value that's a part of the investment. But certainly, the operating margin benefits are significant in the supply chain investments, but they have sales and supplier margin benefits that come off them as well.

Yeah. I'm going to take this one too. The answer is that customer mix can affect our underlying gross profit and sometimes the larger customers will generate a gross margin decline. They also tend to be very efficient customers. So when you get it to the bottom line, sometimes that's muted. We don't share specific information about customers and as I mentioned earlier in the question on independents, we see outsized growth from all over our customer base. It's more correlated with the success of their brand and their concept than their size.

So when you see real strong growth coming from a very large customer, you probably got it right that it’s going to be a little bit negative in the gross profit, but there are benefits. Every customer relationship and we have really strong partnerships with our large customers, and we mutually look for ways to create more value for each other in the partnership, and that’s part of the process of account management.

Well, Bill, you just asked a super strategic question that I'm not going to answer directly, but let me see if I can frame the answer in a way that would give you what -- I think you would be the question behind the question. We see a significant opportunity to be a value-added resource to help suppliers and our 32,000 customers see each other exchange data and for the high margin suppliers who are very growth-driven, to be able to invest to deliver brand execution and growth, consistent with their commercial strategies and ultimately, their brand strategies. The very, very largest retailers have built tools that help them do that.

We see an opportunity for UNFI to get in that business and ultimately create growth opportunities in the most relevant brand building channels that a brand can have to execute it. So the question you asked is a specific type of fee. The way I might frame it is to flip it over and say, well, maybe there's a subscription fee for a different kind of partnership that's all about moving the agenda faster and helping our customers be more competitive and more successful with brands and more investable. And that's something we're working on. It's not something we have completely figured out, but it's something that's work in progress.

Yeah. This is Sandy. What I would say there is in my conversations with James, I think he’s excited about the potential of what UNFI can do. And so I think he uses the word asset broadly beyond just financial assets, but more market position, opportunity mission. But part of what we’re going to be doing with the Board over the next few quarters is doing a really thorough financial review. Think of that as strategy with a fair amount of rigor to ensure that every dollar we use is maximizing its impact for our strategy and for shareholders. And so to the extent that we look at financial assets in that process, which we, of course, will that will happen. But it will all be tied to the context of what we’re trying to accomplish to build a company that’s extremely profitable and grows profitably for years to come.

Thanks, operator, and thanks to everybody for joining us this morning. Fiscal 2023 was a challenging and difficult year and we expect fiscal 2024 will continue to present macro challenges and other hurdles as we accelerate and expand our transformation journey. However, our team is energized to lead UNFI into the future.

I’ve spoken before about the competitive advantages we have, which we believe position us well to succeed as we work to improve key capabilities and bring new value to customers, suppliers and shareholders. This will be a multiyear improvement journey where patience and persistence will be necessary, but we are confident we’re on the right path to reset the business to turn around our profitability and to accelerate sales and profit growth going forward. We expect to have additional proof points of our transformation strategy during the year, and we’ll provide updates as we execute.

For our customers and suppliers, we thank you for your continued partnership and the business we do together. For the UNFI associates listening today, are thanks to each of you for everything that you do for our business, our customers, our communities and each other. And for our shareholders, we know these are challenging times, and we thank you for the trust you continue to place in us. Earning your continued trust is our highest priority. We look forward to updating all of you on our progress again in December after our first quarter.