Sean Kerins
Arrow Electronics, Inc (ARW) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Sure, Matt. Welcome. So, you're right. We focused pretty intently on backlog conversion in the quarter, and that helped us drive the reduction that you saw. I think part of this comes from our focus on the mass market, which is really a sweet spot for us, where we're seeing a little better sell-through velocity than we are in the higher end of the market.

The other thing to point out about inventories is that our units were down in the quarter, both sequentially and year-over-year. So, part of the excess you're still seeing is really a function of price versus a lot of inbound volumes. The rate of inbound has certainly slowed for us as lead times have normalized.

The other thing I would tell you is that if you look at its region by region, we exited the quarter within a turn or less as compared to our historical norms. So, we think the right things are happening by way of normalization. There is still a piece of the excess inventory, that's really a function of some of the long-term supply agreements that were in play. Most of those have wound down or are winding down, and the impact of that is abating for us over time.

So hard to say exactly when things fully normalize. Suppliers are now behaving much like they would have been in pre-pandemic days. With lead times much more normal, they are certainly flexible with regard to reschedule and cancellation activity for us. That's been a little more rescheduled and cancellation for sure, but it does mean the time it takes to work your way through the backlog is extending.

But the right things are happening. And as we said in our prepared remarks, book-to-bill's stabilizing and improving slightly, inventories coming down. We feel good about where we are. Probably still need this quarter and next, just from an inventory perspective, to see things fully normalized yet again.

Sure, Matt. So, let me start with global components because that represents the lion's share of our volume. What you're seeing from an operating margin perspective is really more a function of regional mix than anything to do with pricing pressure. We've got a little bit less EMEA on a relative basis in this outlook than what normal seasonality might imply. But if you look at all of our forecasts across the business, we kind of see gross margins holding up pretty well sequentially.

So really, what we've got here is just a loss of operating leverage at these sales levels. We know that as demand improves, the leverage piece of the equation is going to take care of itself. We're pretty comfortable that the structural contributors to our margin strength are holding up.

From an OpEx perspective, you're right. We've always been pretty vigilant when it comes to our cost structure. That's not changing, especially in this market environment, we are taking appropriate actions in the near term. I can pretty confidently tell you that you'll see our absolute operating expense dollars to trend downward over the course of the year.

At the same time, even though this correction is taking a little bit longer to play out, I would say, we ultimately see this as short-term in nature. So, we do intend to protect our growth priorities and the associated selling and engineering capacity for the long haul.

Melissa, I'm glad you asked the question because I wanted to clarify my last remark. The short answer is no. We're not seeing that really at all. In fact, as lead times have normalized for the most part completely, suppliers again have returned to a more flexible posture with regard to the backlog that we're still managing through.

So that means that we're able to reschedule as necessary, cancel on occasion. That takes a little bit longer to convert the backlog and our backlog still remains at significant levels beyond pre-pandemic days but we're not seeing any pressure from our suppliers in this environment. I think we're getting to the other side of what we typically expect in that regard.

I'd say, in general, Melissa, it's a balance of both. And again, my comments were more on a relative basis. I think we all know the Chinese market remains down, certainly soft, and the period for recovery is a little unclear, but transportation and specifically EV has been a little bit healthier for us as compared to most other verticals.

But demand hasn't probably ticked up dramatically. At the same time, we've been able to sell through pretty consistently some of the inventory we do carry for that space. And I think that will be kind of the same posture for us in this quarter as well.

You know, Joe, I would really -- I probably wouldn't link IP&E to the broader correction cycle in that way necessarily. Remember that IP&E, as compared to semiconductor, never really had the same shortage and capacity challenges as we saw in the semiconductor space. So, lead times never went out as long, shortage has never got to be that severe. And so, we're really not in the same kind of correction in that piece of the market as we are in the semiconductor piece of the market. And it's been more resilient, more predictable for us, hence, the reason book-to-bill is closer to parity.

And as you know, we like the space. It's margin accretive and our new leader for our global components business is doing a nice job of really standing up a differentiated go-to-market model for that piece of the market. And we think, over time and long term, it's really going to be quite attractive for us.

You know, probably too early to call Q2 from a seasonality perspective, Joe, I can tell you when we look at Q1, we are guiding below normal seasonality overall. That's really a function of some more macro pressure in the West, with evidence of some softness in industrial and parts of automotive.

I think in Asia, we're not necessarily assuming the typical uptick that you'd see post the Chinese New Year. But as we work through backlog and as inventories start to normalize, we're going to get better visibility to near-term demand, and that's going to be a good signal for the business and the market overall.

Sure, Will, and thank you. I'll let Raj speak to the number. But just for context, the settlement was related to a commercial dispute with a subset of our supplier base that dates back well more than a decade ago. Many of us weren't even on the scene when this played out, but we are very pleased this resolved, and we anticipate no ongoing consequences.

Raj, maybe you can speak to the numbers?

Will, I would also add, just to reconfirm, our capital allocation priorities have not changed. Number one is organic investment or investment for organic growth. Number two being appropriate M&A. And then number three, of course, returning cash to shareholders.

As you can imagine, in this environment, we're going to be pretty surgical when it comes to organic investments. So in lieu of an appropriate M&A target, we're still very prone to buybacks as it makes sense relative to our debt capacity.

So okay, you got a few different threads there. Let me try and take them one at a time. Again, my comments about investment in this environment, again, the keyword there is surgical. We're taking the right steps and making the right moves to protect our cost structure and our profitability while we navigate this correction to the extent that we have the ability to invest.

We just remain focused on the things that are core to our strategy, demand creation, value-added offerings and capabilities, certainly, our IP&E selling motion and then, of course, the transition to IT as-a-service in our ECS business. And so, we're going to make sure that we're careful with respect to what's happening in the broader market in the meantime, but our investment priorities are fairly focused.

With regard to your question about IT as-a-service, it's basically changing the shape of our sales number in that business. The more we drive infrastructure software, cloud-related solutions and services, the more you'll see our mix shift to a model that's more about GP dollars than it is reported sales. And really, the right way to look at that business over time is through the lens of GP dollar and OI dollar growth as a result.

But a good consequence of that pivot, and as you know, we've been on that journey for a good couple plus years now, has been the growth in the recurring piece of our total ECS business. We think now, when you look at cloud, when you look at things like the transition for software from perpetual to subscription-based licensing models, yes, the recurring piece of our total mix is now approaching 1/3. And so, we like that. It's predictable, it's sticky, and ultimately, brings about accretive contribution margins for that piece of our business.

So, we're staying the course there as well. And you'll have to forgive me, but I think you had a third question in there, I want to make sure we don't forget it.

Ultimately, we think it's about both. But in the near term and recently, it's been more about software.

So, I'm happy to take that, Ruplu. So again, for context, we've got kind of two different models in our ECS business. We've got a regional business in Europe that really suits our strategy nicely. It's a mid-market region, and it's one that lends itself nicely to a channel-based selling motion. The mix, as we grew up in that business, was more about software and now cloud as compared to the mix in the way that we grew up in North America, which was historically about hardware and larger enterprise accounts.

So, we're on the same path in North America to create the same model that we enjoy in Europe. And ultimately, there should be accretive on the margin line. But we're not calling it out for the full year yet at this point. We're just guiding one quarter at a time for all the reasons that you'd expect.

But we think that, that destination is a good one. We recognize, we still have some work to do relative to more mid-market scale in North America, and we expect to see better progress across the course of '24.

