Shantanu Narayen
Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Kash. I mean, certainly, really thrilled with what a phenomenal year we had across all aspects of the business, whether it was the $5 billion quarter, $5 billion book of business now in DX exiting, and certainly Digital Media ARR performance. Let's -- if you reflect, I mean, you talked about the guidance that we gave at the beginning of '23 and '24, if you recall, we actually had guided to $16.50 first then we opted as you know, to $17.50, and ended with $19.13. And so to your point on the execution front, we have delivered some great innovative products. We've expanded the customer base with new products like Express and Firefly. We're certainly focused on surfaces and making sure all of our flagship products are available across all surfaces.

And so we do have multiple growth drivers to your point. And we are focused on monetizing the opportunity. I mean, I would say, we take our guide very seriously, the other way of looking at it, Kash, is it’s our highest annual guide ever in terms of what the guide we've issued, it's the highest Q1 guide ever and we want to go again, execute against this large opportunity and have another record year. So, we're feeling good, the momentum is certainly there in the business. But we take our guidance at this point of the year very seriously.

Thanks. Happy holidays.

And Keith, just to punctuate the two points that David made -- David said, first, it was a record for Creative ARR as it related to subscriptions in Q4 of 2023 and Creative ARR would have grown if you had backed out the pricing. So, the business continues to be extremely healthy to your point.

And maybe I'll just add a little bit to that, Kirk. I mean, I think the exciting thing about what people are doing is they're standardizing on Firefly and the fact that we have responsible generations for the entire enterprise. So the interest level has been around, how do we standardize that for all of the image or vector or other generations that they want to do for all the knowledge workers in the enterprise. So really good adoption of Firefly.

Great. Yeah. Happy to take that. Express is off to a great start. As you remember, we went general availability in August with the latest version of it, it's been getting a lot of very, very positive reaction response. And frankly, since then in Q4 too, we've added a ton of new innovation. Firefly integration started with Text to Image and Text to Effects, but we also added Text to Template that will create a fully-formed template for you and generative fill, so you can iteratively change things on the fly. We now let you drawing paint on the campus -- canvas, we've given users much more video support.

We've really built an incredible best-of-breed PDF support and workflow with Acrobat in there as well. Some of the other things that now start to bleed into the enterprise also, we have integrated social workflows so that people can schedule their post, we've enabled people to do auto-translations, so you can post to multiple geographies and languages. We've opened up our ecosystem for partner plug-ins and we have now over 50 extensions. And we've added enterprise features like AEM integration and template locking, so that the core, brand police in an organization can manage and make sure that their brand elements that they don't want changing are locked when you disseminate this more broadly.

What we've seen is really. I think some very exciting broad-based benefits from this. One is, we've seen new trialists coming in, growing very quickly after this launch, which is exciting to see, we've seen education, users starting to adopt this very quickly as well, the Creative Cloud probe paid base has been coming on and growing very quickly in terms of their usage and then enterprise, as we talked about from a usage perspective and again, Express is a core part of how Anil and team are now selling GenStudio.

And the last thing is like this is just setting up the momentum for the year to come. We have a mobile release coming out, which will be very exciting for users to be able to use this on the go. We have thousands of people already using that beta. We announced our Chromebooks partnership. So, anyone that buys a new Chromebook is going to have this. We have partnerships with folks like Wix for their workflows. We're going to be doing deeper integrations into Acrobat.

So we are very excited about where this goes. That is a long way to answer a very simple question. We want a lot of people using this. So, our primary focus continues to be around broadening the top of funnel. Of course, as part of that, we are constantly and continually, as I mentioned, journeying people for upsell and cross-sell opportunities to the paid plan, and over to Creative Cloud and other products, but our primary focus continues to be adoption and broad proliferation.

And maybe just to add to that, Brent, since you asked. First, let me clarify, there is nothing as it relates to the economic indicators that we saw anything that would give us cause for concern. So, let me start off by saying that, I think at our Investor Meeting, we told you that we would expect a strong quarter, I think you would acknowledge, we posted some really strong numbers and the momentum continues. And I think as it relates to Creative Cloud, it's going to be driven by new customer acquisition, which is the engine that's driven the business and maybe perhaps the sell-side looked at some of the pricing and put more of that in '24 then in '24 and '25 and that will spread out and perhaps they put a little bit more in what percentage of the base that impacts.

So from my perspective, the good news about Creative is it's being driven by massive new adoption into the platform. On Document Cloud, really strong results. I think as Dan said, as we put the AI pack on there as well, that should help fuel more adoption and Digital Experience, I mean, I know that Brad also asked that question. I mean it's great to see the adoption of AEP and Apps. I mean, that is clearly the future of digital experiences, driving $100 million quarter, the $700 million in the annualized book of business, which I think will reflect the next-generation customer experience architecture. So we're feeling positive. And we're going go execute against that Brent. So, nothing that we see on the horizon would tell us either from the economic or competition, that we're not poised to have another great year and profitability as well, I mean, look at the numbers that we posted both in terms of Q4, as well as for fiscal '24 and that is that does not in any way mean that we're not going to invest in all of the cloud and the foundation models. So I feel really good.

Yeah. Thanks, Jay. As I pull some of the threads together that we've heard on this call. Anil, talked about large transformational deals being the platform of choice with customer experience management, simultaneously driving topline and bottom-line productivity and the investments around driving those are an imperative in the market.

We see a similar dynamic with the new technologies that we're bringing to market on the DME side at the business, we're streaming seeing strong pull from the enterprise. And so as I net out that environment and our performance against that opportunity, it goes to produce the type of sequential RPO progression that we saw Q3 to Q4. Every quarter won't be that large, but the backdrop around that dynamic for the company given the setup we see, it should be another strong year for RPO throughout the year.

Operator. We're getting close to the top of the hour. We'll take two more questions and then we'll wrap up. Thanks.

Thanks, everyone. Happy holidays. This concludes the call.