Tim Archer
Lam Research Corporation (LRCX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Harlan. Yeah. I think that we've -- it probably varies by market segment, but clearly we've heard some of our customers, even just recently talking about more utilization cuts within certain device segments. Clearly, I would say it's slowing down as the majority of the cuts that were made in the first half of the year are kind of taking effect. I do feel like, and I made a comment about, in some ways, normalizing our operations is allowing the business to be more predictable. I think the same thing is happening on the end markets and customer side as well, where people are getting a sense of how the cuts that have already been made and how the capex reductions that have already been made are starting to flow through.

So I do feel like we're in that position. And just as we, at this point, ticked a little bit up on WFE from our prior guidance of low to mid-70s to mid-70s, yeah, you're starting to see little strength in certain parts of the market, HBM being one of them. And as also we mentioned, some of the domestic China spending. So, I would feel like things are getting to the point where people are able to predict the business a little bit better than, say, six months ago.

And the only other thing that we have said that when you think about especially utilization improvements in the memory space, we would anticipate Lam being the first to sort of benefit from utilization turning back on, just given our exposure in that space and the impact that it's had on our spares and service business through the first half of this year.

Yeah. I don't think we've -- we haven't exactly sized this business externally, but we -- it is growing and, it’s in certain areas, especially as I highlighted things like etch for TSVs, copper plating for filling of those TSVs, pretty much anything related to the building of that advanced packaging structure through etch and deposition. So it is a strong area of our business right now, especially given the relative weaknesses that’s seen in the other parts of the market.

Thanks, Harlan.

Yeah. I think that as you pointed out, I mean, obviously there is a Reliant component that's right now is quite strong. I talked about sort of at specialty technologies, I mean we're seeing still quite strong demand for our products across all of those different segments. Utilization driving spares and service to much lower levels than we've historically seen. And so, I think as people talk and worry about roll-off in the specialty technologies, maybe that does come at the time that the utilization picks up in the leading-edge and the memory fabs.

But actually at this point, I would say we haven't yet seen demand for those trailing edge technologies to really be rolling over. I mean, demand is still quite strong for us, we're focused on new applications, new tool types and it's just not something that we're ready to forecast yet, although, again, as we've said nothing grows forever, but the broadening it feels pretty good to us right now.

Yeah.

Okay, great. Well, thanks, Krish, and I'll take it first. I think that relative to NAND, as you pointed out, I mean it's -- spending is at very low levels, down more than -- probably more than 75% year-on-year right now. But to this point of cryo etch, and I guess I would just say that at this point, Lam is the only company with cryo etch in high volume production. So it's an area where we do have strength, I mean hundreds of chambers of experience right now.

We're the leader in high aspect ratio etch. I know that at the recent conference, competition has been out talking about a DTOR position for one pass at a memory customer for future node. But I think as probably everybody on this call knows, customers regularly engage more than one vendor when you're in the R&D stage for all these critical applications. And in this case, our production decisions are still quite a ways off. I look at Lam and our competitiveness. I mean, we take all of that experience that we have from years of leading in this space. We've developed a robust technology roadmap. We're engaged with the customer on a variety of different hardware and process innovations.

But I think most importantly, when I think about our long-term competitiveness, we are still the only vendor that has this huge installed base from which every day we're getting learning about how to take processes from the R&D stage into high-volume production. And that's ultimately what really counts for affecting market share. And so, we've said in the past, we don't win every decision, certainly not always at the DTOR stage. But I think given where we are and where we've come from, we're very confident about maintaining leadership and market share in this space.

Yeah. Well, you threw out a couple of numbers. We used to talk about a couple of hundred million dollar opportunity, doubling from there, puts it in the hundreds. I mean, it's growing from that point. I mean, it's becoming a sizable business for us. We just haven't quantified specifically for those two products. I think what you can take away is we talked about our market share position. We know -- I think everybody knows HBM and 3D chip stacking, those products also play into other elements of advanced packaging. It's a very fast-growing part of our business. And so, without giving you our forecast for those markets, I think you can apply what you think about how chip stacking and 3D packaging is building momentum. You know we have 100% market share. I think just -- we're very happy to see what's transpiring in that part of the market.

Krish, what I would say is in this environment, it's the -- those are the tool sets that people are actually pulling for in terms of accelerated deliveries. And so I think that gives you some sense of demand in that market.

Thanks a lot. Tim, there's been a lot of debate that I hear on NAND WFE. And obviously, you have the highest share of all the major vendors. And you used to give this model that suggested $14 billion to $15 billion per year to drive sort of mid-30% bit growth, and there was some sensitivity around it. But since then, a lot of the producers have been basically down ticking on long-term NAND bit growth, Micron is now saying low 20s.

So if you kind of use that old model, you get to something like $11 billion to $12 billion per year to drive low 20s bit growth. I know you've talked about more steps and so that number has gone up. But that's just optically, it's not a ton higher than the $9 billion or so that we're spending this year. And so I keep on getting a ton of debate in terms of just how much NAND WFE is going to come back. So I'm not asking you for a new model, but can you sort of like handicap what's changed vis-a-vis that old model in a market where bit growth seems to be lower going forward than what [indiscernible]?

Well, I think there probably is equal debate about what long-term etch growth is in the NAND space with some of the new applications coming out. But I certainly am not going to get crossways with our customers in terms of their forecast versus ours. I mean again, it's a market where we have such a strong position that ultimately -- we look to satisfy the technology roadmaps and the volume requirements of our customers, and that's kind of where we are. So right now, we know this year, NAND is extremely low.

And without giving you our number, I mean it's -- I would say even if it gets back to something close to that model, it's a lot higher spending than where we are today. I think what's happened too is for Lam, specifically, is not only have we taken -- I mean, what might be different from that model of how much we capture of that SAM is the complexity of doing multi-tier stacking has increased our opportunity through a whole bunch of other steps that we've talked about in the past in terms of backside depth for stress management and gapfill -- ALD gapfills for plug fill, carbon sacrificial plug fills, lots of different types of applications.

And so I think even an environment where you didn't do a lot better than the model, Lam would do a lot better. and we do a whole lot better than where we are today in such a low NAND spending environment. So I think we will get Tim, a new model out once we see a better view of the end demand picture, but that's the best I can do for you right now.

Thanks, Tim. And then, Doug, I guess just as a follow-up, how does your inventory situation play out? I imagine that it's still kind of a drag on gross margin, and you said it's going to come down, you said pretty slowly as you kind of get to the back half of the year. So can you quantify how much of a drag it is as you're -- as you still have pretty high costs, I would imagine, on these parts? And then when do you think it gets back to some sort of normalized level and it's not a headwind anymore to margin? Thanks.

Thanks, Doug.

It is. And I think that was even in my answer to the last question was, I think there's still a lot of debate as to how much storage really gets driven in this, but we're a believer that there is some element of demand driven there. I think that when we think about DRAM, there's a couple of things at play in terms of what drives it. One is, of course, the HBM also increases die size, I think, as you know. And that leads perhaps even greater WFE increase associated both with the silicon side of that as well as the packaging side. I'm not sure that same dynamic exists on the NAND side, but in terms of consumption, it feels like there should be some. But again, I'm willing to sort of let this play out a little further to see what the new model should be. And we talk closely to our customers to see what they're seeing in the marketplace as well.

Yeah. I think that it's split. I mean, obviously, on the domestic China side between some memory investments as well as a lot of specialty technologies, trailing edge focus on end markets, I think we're all familiar with automotive and industrial and those types of markets. As you mentioned, it's strategic. I mean, these are customers that are giving us long-term forecasts. Doug talked last quarter about deferred revenues are impacted by some of the down payments, at least within the visibility horizon that we need, we feel we have a pretty good view of a fair bit of investment that this continues in China, especially in those specialty technology markets where new fabs are emerging to try to capture some element of those trailing edge end markets.

Thanks, Toshiya.

I think it starts in line with the timeline that you just talked about and it's first -- through the first half and second half of next year. I mean these things tend to ramp and I think we are at the point where gate all around is going to become more meaningful. We'll see that in growth in some of the traditional products that are sort of lumped in with everything else. But then there are specialized products that we talked about, like selective etch those -- that suite of tools that's very specialized for applications like gate all around. We'll see faster growth in those segments, I think, as we move through '24 and on into '25. So yeah, maybe we're at that key inflection point. How that overcomes the rest of the market dynamics in '24? We're not ready to guide '24 yet, but some of those technology trends are starting to move in our favor.

Thanks, Atif.

Yeah, Joe, we had talked last -- at the end -- towards the end of last year, right around the October 7 announcement that the impact to our business this year would be $2 billion to $2.5 billion. We clarified earlier this year that because we were able to make some shipments for trailing etch memory that we had not -- we weren't sure whether we could, that impact was going to be closer to the $2 billion mark. That is still what we estimate the impact of last year's restrictions, the October 7 restrictions on our business, $2 billion of revenues.

Now in the same time, as China has shifted its focus towards the areas they can invest, these trailing etch, foundry logic and some of the trailing edge memory, we've seen that upticking a bit as we've moved through this year, and that's what we just spoke about. So I can't really speak to future regulations that may or may not be contemplated. We have a team in Washington DC that's regularly engaged with the government, make sure they understand our business and the details of the semiconductor industry, and that's about the best we can do right now.

Thanks, Joe.

Okay, a little bit difficult, I guess, just from the standpoint that, obviously, pricing improvement in memory, we tend to start to get customers interested in greater utilization of the fab. I think easier, I was going to answer relative to what you'd see in Lam. Obviously, once we start reporting an uptick in our CSBG spares and service businesses, obviously, it's an indicator that fabs are starting to be utilized more, and therefore, consuming spares and service. That's why I mentioned a little earlier that we are expecting to be really one of the first beneficiaries of a recovery in memory because so much of the -- there have been such deep utilization cuts in the memory fabs, that the spares and service side of our business has been impacted to a greater degree than we would have expected. When they turn those back on, that revenue should come back, and that will probably be your first indications from Lam's reported numbers of what's going on.

Okay. Sorry. Maybe I misheard. Then maybe for my second question, Doug, the gross margin upside in Q3, right, it was quite sizable. I don't remember the last time you had such a strong gross margin upside. I think you mentioned something along the lines of mix. Is that mix unsustainable? Like is that likely to reverse, right, at some point? What is the right way to think about the sustainability of gross margins at these levels. So let's say if you assume that your sales continue to grow sequentially, then can gross margins continue to be at plus minus these levels? Or is there something that would dramatically change in the mix to change the trajectory of gross margins?

No, Stacy, there's a normalized level of deferred revenue that's always here, always has been here, and you should expect to always be here. It's probably $750 million to $1 billion on a regular basis, I think, is what you've seen from us in the past. I wouldn't expect it to be too different than that. We've just got a lot of this cash in advance payments right now. That's why it's elevated.

Yeah, we've said that NAND is obviously by far worse. We said about -- about 75% year-on-year. So obviously, that was quite that. I mean DRAM then obviously less than down mid-40s. And I think that in terms of change, we've seen a little bit of improvement, as we've just talked about with HBM and some signs of, at least a little bit more optimism on our part that the DRAM would be the first to recover as a result of some of these trends. And again, just listening to our customers and talking to them, we've heard some customers talk about further cuts in NAND just in the last 24 hours. So...

Thanks.

Well, I think it's -- as we're just in the middle of this year, it's too early to talk about '24 from an absolute number. But clearly, as we move through the next couple of years, I talked about this regional -- these regionalization efforts building momentum. I do think that we'll see that becoming a meaningful contributor to spending, not only here but in other parts of the world.

Yeah. I mean everything related to advanced packaging is growing right now. And I would say Lam's exposure kind of across the board in etching deposition is very strong. So I called out specifically HBM, but you're right. I mean when you look at the importance of things like CoWoS-2 and AI packaged system, our exposure there even broadens further to the types of tools that we sell in there.

And I mentioned this point, if people caught it, even in advanced packaging, we're having to invest in new technologies for atomic scale processing. And so you can see things like ALD being used in advanced packaging now. And so we're really in a world where ALD is being used for advanced packaging, ALE is being used for 200-millimeter GaN. I think that it is creating tremendous opportunities for Lam to leverage our really broad portfolio of technologies for all these new emerging growth opportunities. And it's pretty exciting.

Yeah. Thank you.