Tim Go
HF Sinclair Corporation (DINO) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Yeah. Good morning, Neal. Let me ask Steve to comment a little bit on the Mid-Con outlook, and then I'll come back and provide a little more macro on top of that.

Yeah. And I'll just jump on top of that, Neal. We do believe that Mid-Con seasonality is what we were seeing in the December, January timeframe. We see it every year. In fact, I think we typically talk about it at this call because Mid-Con inventories typically grow during this timeframe. Of course, since the BP Whiting downtime inventories have drawn significantly and Mid-Con cracks have improved significantly.

If you look at the more of a step back macro perspective, Neal, we still believe we are in a supply constrained market. We believe that will continue here through at least 2024. I mean, if you look at, again, demand, we think demand overall is 5% to 6% above 2019 levels, whereas supply versus 2019 is significantly constrained, at least 1 million barrels a day, as you know.

And the utilization requirement in order to make up for that additional demand is just higher than what this industry has been able to demonstrate in the past. And so we still think the BP Whiting issue is a good example of that. We still think that the expectations on industry utilization are higher than what the industry is able to produce. And so as a result, we're going to remain in the supply constrained environment through the rest of 2024.

There's not a lot of incentive to put more capital into refining capacity, just given the current policies of this country. And so we still believe that liquid transportation fuels in general is bullish and refining margins in particular, we're still very bullish, especially with our portfolio.

Yeah, Neal. Let me ask Steve again to jump in and then I can comment on top of that.

Yeah. And Neal, I'll just say, I mean, we feel very good about the operating performance of our renewable diesel business in the fourth quarter achieved 71% utilization. The feedstock price lag that Steve mentioned went against us and obviously impacted our overall profitability. But we believe we've got a good platform to spring into 2024 with.

You look at obviously the LCFS and the RINs prices being significantly lower than what our [Technical Difficulty] basis was when we first launched our business. We do believe that over time, for example, the LCFS is going to recover and it's going to show some improved project margins again. But things like, you saw that New Mexico just passed their own LCFS. We know that as other programs continue to jump into the LCFS world, that it's going to continue to tighten those LCFS credits and the RINs credits as well.

And so we believe, for example, in the New Mexico case that our facilities are advantaged. We have our largest renewable diesel facility in New Mexico. The transportation savings alone are going to be significant boost to our improvements. And so we're feeling positive about our future as we get our operating performance under our belt.

Okay, Paul. Yeah. Thanks for the question. I'll let Atanas provide a few comments on HEP and then I'll mention a few things as well.

Yeah, Paul. And I would just say on top of what Atanas just mentioned, we are very pleased with the HEP transaction. We do think it's turning out even better than what we saw in our planning economics, and that's really a basis for the dividend increase that we just announced last week. We believe that not only is it EPS accretive, but it's much -- it's very much cash flow accretive. We've seen maybe a little better than what we thought originally, and we're passing that on to our shareholders through the dividend increase.

Paul, no, we haven't put a number out on there. When we first talked, we limited our discussions to some of the very obvious and very hard synergies associated with back office consolidation, two public companies into one. We are seeing synergies for sure out there, but we're not ready to talk about it out there.

Yeah. Paul, we've taken big step forwards, as you've mentioned in reliability. I think Val and her team have really, really done a great job in progressing that effort. We've talked earlier about the turnarounds and how that's setting us up for success. We believe reliability is the biggest knob we have to turn on op costs and op costs per barrel because it affects both the numerator and the denominator.

I'll let Val talk about some more examples of things that we're working on to improve our OpEx per barrel.

Yeah, Paul. What I would tell you is when we put that $6, $6.50 number out there, it was before we expanded our portfolio with both Puget Sound and with the Sinclair assets and before HEP for that. So now that we've got about a year under our belt, we are certainly looking -- putting our long-term plans together and trying to put kind of a better outlook on what we think we're going to be able to accomplish here in the near-term. Remember, these are long-term cycles. Reliability, as I mentioned, is measured in turnaround cycles, not in years. But we're not prepared to say anything different today. But probably we'll be in a position to do something later this year.

Yeah, Doug. I would say, crude flexibility and optionality continues to be an advantage for us, not just at the Puget Sound refinery, but also at our El Dorado refinery with access to -- direct access to Cushing. We've got the ability to arb whatever the best crude slate is for that refinery.

From a bigger picture perspective, I just want to remind folks that the Alberta crude production continues to increase. And I think even November, December they set annual crude production records or monthly crude production records during that time frame, every month, every quarter that TMX delays is a month or quarter closer to when the Canadian crude production will once again outpace the TMX takeaway capacity.

So we believe that period is going to be fairly short, maybe two years, something in that time frame to when takeaway capacity will again be constrained and we'll be back into this advantaged crude situation on the heavy crude. So we think this is just a short-term position until the crude -- Canadian crude production increases again.

Yeah. And Doug, don't forget we had some bonds mature under the quarter and $308 million that we paid down in bonds.

Yeah. Let me ask Matt. Matt, as you know, is our leader for our Lubes business. Let me have him comment first.

So Manav, that $30 million of FIFO impact, it is our accounting system, so we don't actually adjust out for that. Our adjusted EBITDA is still in that $58 million range that we talked about. But we like to help people understand what the FIFO impact is because that is a more representative of how the underlying business is performing. So we just want to help people understand that.

FIFO in the end, evens out over time. And so we believe we'll get that back here as prices continue to increase here in 2024, they'll even out over time as well. We're very bullish on the business. We think -- we think 2024 will continue to be good years for us, despite base oil margins decreasing. We saw that phenomena all last year, and yet Matt and his team have been able to deliver outsized results, and we don't expect anything different this year.

Thanks, Manav. That absolutely is one of our goals. And we are well on the way to doing that. Pleased with some of the things that we put into place. We take advantage of not only our kit, but the markets that we're in. We believe our markets are advantaged, but things that we're doing to drive capture include pushing the distillate production, taking a stronger approach on jet. We're taking a path at increased premium production. We're going to take advantage of our late and crude advantages and taking that heavy oil value chain.

And I'll remind you that our approach is not only in the acquisition cost of the light and heavy differential, but also what we do with some of the finishing products and our asphalt business is performing well. We look to do those things across all of our value chains right through the business. So we'll continue to look to optimize and focus on where we can high grade the molecule and take it to the markets that we see best fit in our advantaged geographies.`

Yeah, Matt. This is Tim. We run a lot of Canadian crude. It's not all Syncrude. Some of its heavy crude as well. And we are -- and those are advantaged crude barrels that we take in. We'll still be able to do quite a bit of that even during the Puget Sound turnaround. So we blend that to basically mimic an ANS barrel and that we believe is still going to be available. And you brought up a good point. We talk a lot about heavy Canadian diffs (ph) and how we were able to take advantage of that. The Syncrude differential has really been very strong, as you've pointed out, and we're able to take full advantage of that at Puget Sound.

Yeah. And I would just add on top of that, John, that we had good capture in the West in the fourth quarter, and I think that continues to reflect some of the additional synergies and some of the additional improvements that we're able to find just quarter-over-quarter. And as you continue to watch that capture, I think you guys will continue to see that reflecting the opportunities that we're finding and capturing.

Yeah, John, and I'll just add again. The dividend increase that we announced last week. Just continued commitment to our goal of shareholder returns and increasing shareholder returns. So that's contributing to that. Look, we said last year that we can't speak for the REH Co., family that owns Sinclair, but they put out in their 13D that their preference would be to continue to sell shares directly to the company when they have desired to do so.

Our preference is to buy those shares directly from them. And so as long as that continues to be an opportunity for us in 2024, we're going to take full advantage of it on both sides to continue to do that. We do think, as I mentioned before, we're bullish on 2024. We think it's going to be above mid-cycle.

We think that the seasonality is starting to turn, as we talked about, not just on the Mid-Con, but we've seen inventories and cracks recovering in the Rockies as well. And that's consistent with what our overall view is and what the market is going to be. We think ‘24 is going to be another good year for us and going to allow us to return excess cash to our shareholders on behalf of the last few years.

We saw, Joe, that in the Mid-Con, I know a lot of people were watching that the very, very cold weather that came through basically in the early January time frame really, really took a bite out of demand even further than what seasonality would typically project. And again, I think over time, especially with the BP Whiting outage right now, those inventories and those balances are being restored right now.

Yeah, Jason. Let me take a shot at that. We're still very bullish on our Lubes business. In fact, we've just put in the books a third year of really strong earnings from that business. And again, we think 2024 is shaping up to be another good year for us. We still believe that the business is undervalued. We believe that it has a higher multiple than what the investors are giving us credit for. But as we put in these additional years of actuals in the books, we're hoping that the market will give us credit for that going forward. So nothing has changed there.

The chemicals market, in general, as you're kind of alluding to, is at the lower part of their cycle. And so the market itself is not -- is not the best market right now from a chemical standpoint. And so what we've always said is, we're going to look at this, but it's not a short-term thing. It's really more of a mid-term thing. The next two or three years, there's nothing changed there as well. So it's still something that we're very interested in and looking at. But we want to give the market a chance to show that full value in our own stock price before we go out and do anything different.

We also want know, as Matt talked about earlier, we've got a lot of opportunities to improve the base business. We still think there's a lot more meat on that bone, and we're continuing to drive forward structural improvements to our lubes business as well. So, Jason, nothing new to update basically, but to say everything's still on course.

And Jason, I'll just remind, there was a Gallup Refinery up there, pre-COVID, that has shut down since and this pipeline is really going to be just replacing some of the barrels that were already there pre-COVID. We think the tariff structure is pretty high for that area and so we still think regardless, we're going to have a competitive advantage to source barrels into that region.

Well, thank you, Gavin. I mentioned a lot of highlights in my opening remarks and I want to give a shout-out to all of our employees for delivering these outstanding results in 2023. These achievements are a testament to the competitive advantages of our new business portfolio and also the hard work and dedication of our employees to execute our strategies and deliver on these results. Our priorities remain the same for 2024, to improve our reliability, to integrate and optimize our new portfolio of assets and to return excess cash to our sharehol