Tim Wentworth
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (WBA) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Ginger. I’m excited to join the call today and even more excited to get to work after next week. During my nearly three decades in health care, I’ve led efforts to create innovative and flexible health services to meet the needs of health plans, employers and government organizations as well as their employees and members. And building a team that grew the largest, most operationally efficient PBM in the country or helping to establish Accredo as the most significant specialty pharmacy in the United States or helping to put together Evernorth [ph], a $100 billion plus health services business, I’ve consistently built relationships and offered solutions both for customers who are looking for a trusted innovative partner who listens, and for patients who are looking for access and affordability. This impact was the direct result of having a winning team of employees and a culture that valued patients.

Now I know WBA. I have worked with Walgreens as a customer, partner, competitor, investor and family member, and I understand the challenges ahead for us as well as for the health care industry. Walgreens is built on convenience, access and trust and has unique advantages in today's health care environment. I see the opportunities before us to build on our pharmacy strength, and our trusted brand to evolve health care and the customer experience to deliver better outcomes at a lower cost.

Now I've learned a lot over the recent weeks, as you might imagine. I've spent time with each and every Board member, talking about the future and their priorities, learning about our challenges and opportunities, and most importantly, the importance of execution. Those discussions inform my own research. And of course, I have my personal experiences.

For example, just last week, Maeve, a terrific store employee in Rochester, New York, professionally and cheerfully delivered to me a critical prescription to help my mother. It was the kind of experience I appreciate and everyone deserves. And I know that Maeve is surrounded by committed pharmacists and other team members, all of whom together can improve the lives of each person who walks through our door in my mom's hometown Walgreens in Rochester, and in every store we operate. All of these experiences together made my decision to join WBA, frankly, an easy one.

There is a reservoir of goodwill for this company across communities, and a substantial opportunity to return value to our customers, employees and shareholders. Alongside the Board, our team members and partners, I'm enthusiastic about our future and realizing our health care strategy and vision. I'm humbled to serve as WBA's next CEO and look forward to speaking to many of you in the coming weeks.

Ginger, thank you, and thank you to the entire WBA Board for this opportunity. I'll now turn it back to you.