Todd Vasos
Dollar General Corporation (DG) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you. So Todd, I think it would be helpful if you could maybe speak to the top-line and traffic self-help improvement that you're seeing, just given the volatile macro backdrop. So as you break down your 2024 comp guide, could you elaborate on the Back to Basics strategy? What's working today that supports the first quarter comp guidance relative to maybe incremental opportunity that you see potentially building throughout the year, particularly in the back half?

Sure, Matt. Thanks for the question. We're pretty pleased with what we've seen in our short run here on getting back to the basics. You can see it in our comps in Q4. You can see it in our traffic numbers, and we can see it in our customer data as well. So all good signs that we're on track to where we want to get to, to get back to the basics here of Dollar General.

In saying that, you saw the comp guide for Q1 at 1.5% to 2%. Obviously, that is a more robust comp than we've seen here for a better part of the year. And I think that really goes to the -- to a couple of things. One is our commitment and as well as our confidence in the Back to Basics work that's being done.

Let me just quickly recap a couple of those so that you all can have confidence as I do and the team does here on why we believe. One is we have done a lot of work in ensuring we've got the right amount of labor inside of our stores, $150 million in labor investments in 2023. I think most notably here as well is in Q4, the reallocation of that labor to areas that mean the most to our stores and to our customers. And so ensuring that we've got somebody at the front register to ring out 100% of the time, check, we're actually doing that, I believe, at a very high level now.

Second of all, ensuring that we put labor in to keep our on-hand and perpetual inventory counts more accurate. We through Q4, have implemented that program, including extensive training to make sure that we feel confident long term that it will be sticky in our stores. And so, I would tell you that our stores and our store employees have applauded that labor investment. And we're already starting to see some of the early benefits from that on the shelf, meaning more product on time and in the shelf. So really great to see.

Also, another big reason on the self-help side, as you indicated, that we feel confident in is that we worked hard in Q4. We've gone back and peel the onion completely back on transportation and DC accuracy, so in our whole supply chain and then put it back together, believe it or not in Q4, what we've seen by doing that is that we've seen our on-time rates tick up greatly. Matter of fact, in the last 4 to 5 weeks, we've seen a very, very consistent level just shy of our goals and, last week, for the first time, hit our goals on both our fresh distribution as well as our traditional DC distribution. So great to see.

And how that manifests itself at our store is any time we can be on time and more in full in our stores, it gives our store the ability to be able to work what we call that seven-day workflow, which when they're able to do that, things run very, very smoothly inside of our stores. So more to come. While we're not 100% there, we are getting there on our transportation and our distribution pieces.

And then the other pieces that really come into play here is in our merchandising areas. As you heard in our prepared remarks, we've already turned off 1,000 SKUs. We've got those turned off and already starting to burn down at store level. So we hope that we see our markdowns be somewhat limited there while we've got some markdowns, obviously planned in 2024 to move through that product. This is really going to help the stores, 1,000 less SKUs that they have to deal with. And then at the same time, reducing the amount of floor stands coming up and other products that don't go right to the shelf. And by the way, it's going to be a substantial decrease. The stores haven't seen that yet. That's coming in later in Q1 and into Q2. And by the way, it's over a 50% to 60% decrease over last year in those floor stands and those alternate items coming in. So again, a lot less work at the store.

And then lastly, as it relates to, and I alluded to it in my prepared remarks, the rolltainer [ph] sort. We haven't done that since 2017. If you remember, back in 2017, when we did do that, it makes the putting of the product onto the shelf from the delivery, 15% to 20% more -- does it faster. So we're able to execute it faster at store level. And what that does and how that manifests itself at store is, bottom line, is it gets product to the shelf faster, that increases sales, and it increases the productivity of our stockers inside that store.

So more to come there. That’s why we feel so bullish about what we’ve got coming and what we’ve already done. So we’ve done this before, Matt. We know how to do it, and we’re getting at it, as you could tell with a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of conviction here.

Yeah, Simeon, thank you for the question. I'll start and then pass it over to Kelly for that second piece. So I just covered a few of those what went well. But again, we feel good about those sales driving activities and customer satisfaction activities that we've taken in our Back to Basics work. I believe that if you look at outside of shrink, and I'll get to that in a moment, here's how I would characterize where we are in getting back to the basics. I think this is a fundamental way to think about it.

When we started this journey in middle October of last year, I'd say, unfortunately, we were about our own 10-yard line if you think about a football analogy. I'd say that as we exited Q4 and now entering Q1, we're just crossing the 35-yard line, our own 35-yard line. I feel that we are on the right track to cross over the 50-yard line as we move through Q1 and into Q2 and start to really look at how we drive further into '24 and into '25 in and get into our own red zone, if you will.

So that's how I'm looking at this. So some things are manifesting themselves and happening in real time very quickly at the store and through our customers' lens. Some will take a little longer.

Now one of those things is shrink that's going to take a little longer. As you know, we take physical inventories once a year in our stores. So anything we started to do as of October of last year will take a year to manifest itself within the financials and, by the way, a little longer in some instances as things take hold, some quicker on the shrink side, some take a little longer.

The great thing on the shrink side is that we know how to control this. We've done this before. Matter of fact, the individual that is in charge of operations now -- store operations, Steve Decker, Steve ran our shrink program for years here at Dollar General years ago and got it down to some of the lowest levels that -- historical lowest levels that we've seen in Dollar General pre-pandemic. We are squarely focused as we move through '25 and into '26 to get back to those pre-pandemic levels of shrink here at Dollar General. It's just going to take us a little time.

But I'd tell you, when you look at what were -- the actions we're taking and, I would say, decisive actions, especially around self-checkout, taking self-checkout, if you will, the ability of self-checkout out of 9,000 of our stores immediately and turning them to assisted-check stands is really going to benefit us. We spent a little bit of money in Q4, and we looked at an AI solution.

We brought a team in. The team was called Everseen, and it's an AI solution that monitors thousands -- hundreds of thousands of our self-checkout transactions. And we were able to see through AI, what has transpired over the course of many months of transaction data at self-checkout. And what we're able to see was how much shrink -- true shrink we've had, both purpose shrink, unfortunately, and inadvertent shrink by items not being scanned properly or thinking they scanned it and didn't.

Long story here to say, we've made decisions based on that AI activity to pull out in 9,000 stores and go to that assisted-check stand. That should immediately do a lot for us. Putting somebody at the front end of the store, we did in October immediate will help our shrink.

And then lastly, inventory control is going to help our shrink tremendously. I'm an own operator, going way back into the '80s as a system manager, store manager, district manager, VP of Operations. And I would tell you that any time you have too much inventory in the store, you've got too much shrinking and damages. And damages, by the way, is just known shrink. And so more to come. I believe we're getting our arms around everything and feel very confident about where we're going. And Kelly?

Sure. Thanks for the question, John. And you and I have been talking about fresh and about these type of stores for quite a while. And I would tell you, when we put into place here years ago, our ability to grow cooler count, to grow fresh produce, the way we have over the years very methodically to be profitable at it as well as then enabling all of that and soon to be produced in the near future into self-distribution, I would tell you that we feel very good about that.

Then as you think about municipalities across this country that are in food deserts and/or looking for help in more fresh options, that mini market, as you indicated, our DG Market is really a lifesaver for those areas and a true lifeline for those areas where the grocery have left years ago, and we're there and can be there to help them.

So we believe in that concept greatly, and as you look at the economics -- and I'll pass it over to Kelly to add a little bit more color to it. But I would tell you that we like the sales economics there. We do like the four-wall profitability that's thrown off by that. As we continue to look at balancing it, I would tell you there are thousands of opportunities for that box across the U.S. Kelly?

Rupesh, let me start, and I'll pass it over to Kelly. Yeah, as we look out into 2024, we do believe that the promotional environment will have an uptick here. We believe that it will revert closer to where pre-pandemic levels were. In 2023, we saw an increase as well. So this isn't an immediate left or right-hand turn here. This is what we had anticipated, quite frankly, over the last couple of years that as we enter '24, we would probably start to see this.

And by the way, I think our CPG partners, and I'm sure you've seen, have signaled this for quite a while now in that they need to move units and, through that, encourage, if you will, some of that promotional activity to occur.

The great thing about Dollar General, we talked about the levels of markdown, but the great thing about Dollar General is that with our size and scale, we're able to get a tremendous amount of CPG help when it relates to this higher level of activity. And so our margins usually tend to be okay, if you will, as we move through these higher markdowns -- promotional markdowns. But what it also does right now, Rupesh, I believe, is it just gives that customer that's looking for more and more value right now.

And by the way, this customer is getting healthier and healthier every day. We're seeing it. She's figuring out her expenses. I think you probably remember, I talked about this quite often. It takes her a few quarters to figure out when she gets a shock to the system. And unfortunately, this inflationary environment we've lived in for the last couple of years has been a shock and maybe even a double shock to her.

But she's starting to figure it out. You can see it through the transaction data. You can see it on the unit side. And you can see it even on the mix side. She's starting to pick up a little bit more of that non-consumable type items, that discretionary item a little bit more each and every passing week that we see. So there's a lot of reason to believe that this markdown activity will actually help encourage her to get out and spend more at Dollar General at a time where she needs us most.

Yeah. Chuck, thanks for the question. And I would tell you, what we feel good about right now is getting back to the basics here, all the work that we're doing, as I indicated, we're probably just crossing over that 35-yard line. And so a lot of moving parts yet, but I think you could tell by my voice, and I can tell you, if you were here in this building, you could see the enthusiasm and in our stores of what is starting to really start to take hold. And that is getting back to the fundamentals that have made this company successful over the years.

And a lot of it, the majority of it is not recreating the wheel, as I've said last quarter. It's taking tried and true items as well as processes and procedures and ensuring compliance. It's that simple in many instances.

Now some of these, though, unfortunately, that had gone awry in the last 12 to 18 months, we really need to take some time to get those back in line. So those -- some of those are margin related and those components of, but as those start to heal, shrink being the largest one of those, I believe that we'll be in a really good position, as Kelly indicated, especially to start delivering on that EPS growth of 10% plus. And that is really some of the good health of the business that would start to show up.

I feel good about that long-term algorithm. I feel good about this business as good as I ever felt. And quite frankly, I believe we have more drivers at our disposal today on driving that top line than we've ever had in the past, especially around the fresh network that we've got, the fresh food as well as all the work that we've done on NCI over the years and non-consumables. That is just waiting for the customer to come back in. And as I indicated earlier, we're starting to see glimmers of her starting to come back in to that discretionary side. And we stand ready, willing, able with inventory, fresh inventory to get that done.

So stay tuned. You know me, we’re not going to stand still. We’re going to push hard and get this thing moving as fast as we can, and we’re off to a great start already here.

Yeah, sure. I'll start and pass it over to Kelly. Yeah, the very back half of Q3, we started to see some good glimmers of positive traffic. And then as we move through Q4, we saw that sequentially increase. And not that we're giving Q1 guidance, but that's continued into Q1.

And so we feel very good about what we're seeing on the traffic side. And we believe, again, by all these actions we're taking on getting back to the basics should manifest itself in a strong traffic growth as we continue to move into the quarters ahead. And that's why the comp guidance that we gave is so important because we believe that we can see that positive traffic.

Not only that but all the work that we're doing to get back to basics here, get in stock not only helps that traffic. But what we're starting to see is -- and gives us confidence is that for the first time in many quarters, we're starting to see the trade down come back in. And we hadn't seen that for a few quarters. And quite frankly, it's been across every cohort, a customer that we track. So not only that higher income, all the way down to the lower income, we're seeing share gains. So great to see that. That means the work that we're doing is resonating and should also mean and manifest itself into long-term growth on that top line.