Tom Kingsbury
Kohl's Corporation (KSS) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Bob. As far as growth goes, we feel very confident about being able to hit our guidance of 0% to plus 2%. 2023 was really a setup year for all the initiatives that we think we'll be able to really take advantage of in 2024. The Sephora thing, you've heard us talk about it a lot. I mean we just feel really, really good about it. And we already have it in 910 stores. We're going to add another 140 small formats. We're already stating that we're going to beat our goal in 2025. So that's going to keep on giving us some plus sales.

And then one thing I'm really excited about is what we're doing in our home business. We're investing in a lot of categories candidly that we weren't really in, I mean, in terms of home decor, wall art, lighting, pet. And if you go into our stores now, you'll see the elevated inventory levels in those categories now. I'm really happy with what our team has done so far in order to obviously improve that presentation.

Gifting, we've done very, very well since moving gifting to the front of the store. We did well in Valentine's Day. We did really well in holiday, as I mentioned before. But we want to be known for gifting headquarters, and we're doing a good job of getting there overall.

Impulse, it's another big category for us. We're adding queuing lines to 350 stores to bring it to 435 totally. I think we're a little bit behind the 8 ball in terms of really building out the impulse business. Obviously, a lot of people are doing it, and we expect significant growth out of that category overall.

Today, we announced that we have a partnership with Babies R Us. It's just part of our overall campaign to get younger customers into our stores. Sephora has done a phenomenal job helping us with that. The Babies R Us, it's just part of that. We really feel that it will help bring in a younger consumer. And it's a category candidly that is really wanted and needed by the customers based on all the different things that have been happening over time. So we're happy to be able to supply that product to our customers overall.

Our private brands, we've really elevated it from a high-volume pricing perspective overall. It's in all of our private brands. So that's also giving us growth. We tested it, and it did extremely well. We see that continuing.

And then in our apparel and footwear areas, we're adding 700 dress shops in women's. We're also working hard on bringing in more market brands in juniors. It's another part of our initiative to bring in the younger consumers. We really feel that the junior business, and it's already doing well, is going to continue to help us satisfy the younger customer but also the Sephora customers, which we're working on. Overall, men's, we've done very well in polish casual, suitings, dress shirts, et cetera. We see that continuing for a long time. And then kids, same deal in terms of a lot more polish casual, more dress-up product, girl's dresses, et cetera.

But also, there will be a benefit from the BRU partnership overall. We're working hard on our footwear business. Over time, we've really reduced our product offering in dress and casual, so we're primarily athletic. So we're fixing all of that.

And then the accessory business, we just have a big opportunity there in jewelry, handbags and accessories.

So with all that said, it's hard not to feel very confident about our growth in 2024. We have a lot of things that are working and a lot of things that we want to continue to go after aggressively.

We don't see a lot of displacement of product. We continually are reducing our inventories. We're down 10% at the year-end, so that makes way for a lot of more categories, a lot more choices that we can give the customers.

We're looking at the $2 billion over several years. So we'll have incremental growth in those categories really starting now. And Babies R Us will obviously add in the fall season, but it's just spread over several years.

Yes. And Sephora, another thing that will help the growth is we're adding about seven or eight new brands to the assortments overall. So obviously, newness is very important. But we're seeing from some of the brands that we've had since opening. So Deschanel is really strong. It's one of our top brands actually in the company. The Sephora collection is doing extremely well and Rare Beauty. Those three brands are doing really, really well. So between the newness and the receptivity to the existing brands, we really feel that Sephora can keep on working well.

Okay. I'll take a portion of it, and then I'll let Jill weigh in.

First of all, online will perform comparable to the brick-and-mortar business. We did clean up a lot, as you said, and we expect it to return to growth in 2024.

As far as attracting the Sephora customer, juniors is really, really key. And we're already doing very well. We're going into the marketplace, and we're buying product. And so we can react to trends. The Sephora customer really is trend-driven, and our junior business is going to give us that opportunity. But we were buying a lot of goods in juniors through our proprietary brands. And we'd buy it 12, 14 months out. And by the time we delivered it, it would be dead on arrival just because the customer reacts quickly to trends overall. So using the marketplace to get the product is really going to help us satisfy the needs of the Sephora customer. We feel very confident about that.

Okay. Drivers of comp overall Sephora, home, all the things that I've been talking about overall, the gifting, the impulse. And we really need -- we would need the quarter to help us hit the numbers we want to hit as well. But I think, as I articulated, I think that there is a big opportunity in the core if we can continue to go after things like lady's dresses, the juniors business, as I mentioned before, other polished casual businesses, same with men's overall, just having broader assortments of product. We have to serve a lot of customers, and we want to give them a lot of choices overall.

We got a little too narrow in our assortments in terms of too much active and casual. We still feel very good about those categories, but we also feel that we're going to get the growth out of maximizing more of the dress-up product. People are looking for that. People are going out more, and they're obviously wanting that kind of clothing as they -- as part of their wardrobe. They're looking in their closet, and they don't have that product. So we're going to fulfill that.

Well, again, as you mentioned, I mean, we're making great progress in that journey. Sephora is really helping us out a lot. The Babies R Us also, as I mentioned earlier, part of that strategy. And then building on our junior business, rebuilding our accessory business overall, even the home decor business, we really feel that, that's a younger consumer, overall.

So I would say, we made a lot -- we made good progress in 2023, but we're going to continue to push hard because obviously, we want to be more attractive to the younger consumer. The Kohl's brand also is part of that strategy as well. So we've got a lot of things working in order to have that younger customer come into our stores. So thank you.

Thanks, everyone. Really appreciate it, and have a great day.