Tony Spring
Macy's, Inc. (M) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thanks, Matt. The focus on the Macy's nameplate is threefold. One is to address the underproductive assets within the franchise. Hopefully, that will be about 50 assets monetized this year. If you recall from the comments in the opening remarks, there's a big delta in sales performance between the go-forward fleet and the non-go-forward fleet on both comp store sales and 4-wall EBITDA. In terms of actions that we're taking, we have focused ourselves on the first 50 to make sure that those stores are emblematic of what the future of Macy's brand will be, and that's elevated merchandise assortments, more powerful visual presentations, additional staffing in areas like women's shoes and ready-to-wear. The other piece I would say is ensuring that our digital experience is more consistent. It's providing product pools that allow you to have selection and choice without fatigue and making sure that there's a level of inspiration throughout the brand touch points with the consumer. And finally, it's leaning into the breadth of our portfolio. So it's opening stores while we're closing stores, looking at Macy's small-format opportunities, expanding the reach of Bloomingdale's and leaning into the growth opportunity in Bluemercury. Adrian?

Thanks, Matt.

Thanks, Oliver. I'll take the first piece of it. So I think in terms of the range on our sales forecast, we have a lot of newness in the spring season, whether that be the composition of our inventory in the first quarter, more seasonally appropriate, the right mix of both newness as well as transitional product. I think it's the lapping of the expansion of Nike. So we were not up against Nike until the third quarter of this year. It's the introduction of Under Armour into more stores. I think it's the -- being up against less exiting of the private brand portfolio and the full year of On 34th and the reimagination of I.N.C. So I think that from within the Macy's construct on both private brand and new market brands, we feel like we're entering 2024 with more upside and the headwinds come down a little bit. As it relates to the contribution of Bloomingdale's and Bluemercury, they're clearly smaller parts of our portfolio today. They have ample opportunity for growth. Both are leaders within their categories. The beauty market is obviously far bigger than our fair share today. And Bloomingdale's is coming off of several years of good performance and has the opportunity to capitalize on the disruption in the marketplace. They are not solely a luxury brand, which means they have growth potential across a number of different categories with a very loyal multi-generational customer.

Thanks, Oliver.

Thank you, Brooke, for the question. First, as it relates to the decision on the closure of the 150, I really just want to underscore the dimension and difference between the go-forward fleet and the non-go-forward fleet. The 150 these stores represent 25% of our gross square footage at Macy's, Inc., but less than 10% of our sales. It was a 500 basis point difference between the sales performance in 2023 between those stores and our go-forward stores and over 950 basis points difference in our EBITDA performance on a 4-wall basis between the go-forward fleet and the non-go-forward fleet. So the economics obviously makes sense. But what I would say is the team spent greater part at 6.5, 7 months doing a complete diagnostic on our entire portfolio looking at demographic, psychographics, digital demand, the condition of the center, the condition of our store, capital required to bring the stores to standard. And I think we made a decision on our go-forward fleet that was far more comprehensive than it would have been in the past. So I feel good about the go-forward fleet, the decisions we've made and the value to monetize is greater than the value to operate in these stores. So relative to the differences between the first 50 and any other focused store plan previously. This one is rooted in the customer feedback. We talked to 60,000 customers to understand what they were looking for from the Macy's brand. It was an enjoyable shopping experience. It was clear and easy to understand value, and it was a compelling product. So these first 50 stores are going to have elevated merchandise assortments. They're going to have better visual presentations. They're going to have additional staffing in important areas like women's shoes and women's ready-to-wear. They're going to have the kind of eventing that a local store is looking for. And then finally, your question about digital demand recapture. We have stores in these markets beyond the stores we're closing, not every market, but most markets. So we'll be looking at neighboring stores to capture that demand as well as digital outreach to make sure that we lose as little as possible.

Thank you.

Sure, Blake. I think the importance of the merchandise assortment the right combination of work on refreshing and modernizing our private brands, which I think we've spoken to a good amount over the last few quarters. We feel like we are making solid progress. The go-forward performance of our private brand fleet is well performing to our plan. And we just need to get through the remaining disposition of the private brands that are not go-forward. So far, I feel good about the work that we've done in private brand, have a little more work to do to exit the remaining private brands but that should be a growth vehicle for us in the years to come. In terms of market brands, we're excited about Nike. We're excited about the additional launch or expansion of Under Armour. We have a number of other brands that we'll be launching over the course of the year. But this is an exercise that exists within the merchant organization now that we have a full category responsibility and looking at both owned and licensed, inclusive of how we capitalize on the growth of Marketplace. We want to have an assortment that offers a range and variety but doesn't have the level of redundancy. There's a level of SKU rationalization that we're going through to make sure that in every category, we are offering the customer something that we can both be in stock on and the size and color basis but offer them also compelling value and relevancy. So I would say more work to come, but very pleased with the initial results in private brand and the work we're beginning now in earnest in market brands.

Thank you, Blake.

Thanks, Paul, for the questions. As it relates to the opportunity in off-price, we see Backstage as being an important vehicle, not just for productivity but also capturing the value-conscious consumer at Macy's. And obviously, Bloomingdale's off-price continues to outperform, but we see that as a growth vehicle for that brand as well. So off-price to luxury, Backstage remains an important ingredient in our overall value equation. In terms of transaction and ticket assumptions for 2024, we see a low single-digit growth in AUR. The traffic being slightly down to a year ago and conversion holding somewhat stable. So the consumer remains under pressure, I'm not going to worry about what we can control. But the team is highly focused on leaning into the things that we've worked on over the last several months, which is creating a better and more compelling assortment, making sure that we're working much harder to modernize our marketing and digital exposure and working in store to make sure that the presentation is better than it's been in the past. I'm excited about the visual investments we've made and certainly the focus we have on our first 50.

I guess I would also add -- I would add, Paul, that the team is highly focused on the incrementality in marketplace. So the opportunity to pursue brands in categories where we don't have an existing assortment, and we're seeing the best build on those areas in particular.

Thank you, Paul.

Thanks, Dana, for the questions. We believe in store. So I think these are always tough conversations, not only for the colleagues affected and for our brand partners. But when these stores, 25% of our gross square footage only 10% -- a little less than 10% of our sales, they're underproductive. And we have to focus on making sure that we have the best stores, not the largest number of stores. So yes, we want to have both strong on mall presence, some of the best stores in the country. We want to also pursue off-mall to make sure that we have availability and convenience and where a lot of put steps are going today. But we're going to remain a majority mall-based freestanding store company with the right complement of off-mall stores to Macy's and Bloomingdale's more convenient. We're excited about the launches day-to-day. It's gotten a nice early response from the consumer. It's only 2.5 weeks on the floor. So pleased there. And I think as we've stated on private brand, this is our opportunity to make sure we're filling in white space, make sure that we are complementing our market brands. It obviously offers greater margin and greater profit contribution than our market brands. But we also know that our market brands are the majority of our business. So this is a healthy balance that we, as merchants need to make sure that we maintain the right relevant market brands, the right range and variety of price points, and we complement that with the missing elements in white space and price points and value with what we do in private brands.

Thanks, Dana.

Bob, let me take the first part of that, and I'm sure Adrian will add. Our plans incorporate the liquidity to buy into the newness that we've described and to be able to chase into opportunities as they occur. So we retain an inventory reserve in each of our areas of business to make sure that we both have made commitments to brands that require that, and at the same time, hold back the flexibility to should opportunities arise or should softness occur that we can pull back as necessary. But all of that has been incorporated into our forecast. And I think that inventory should be on or around flat to last year as we begin to improve sales.

Let me take the second part of the question first, Alex. In terms of our low single-digit sales target, it reflects the delta that we see today between our go-forward fleet versus our non-go forward fleet first, it's based on store sales. There's an opportunity in our existing Macy's and Bloomingdale's and Bluemercury fleet to grow comp sales starting in 2025 when you exclude the non-go-forward locations. Second, it's the return of growth in digital, which is a breakdown between lower growth in our own digital business and accelerated growth in the Marketplace business. And then finally, it's beginning to add versus the lead from our private brand portfolio or making sure that all the work that we've done in analytics on our assortments with SKU rationalization and the pursuit of brands that are missing from our portfolio begin to take hold. So there's an ample opportunity to grow across all 3 nameplates by making sure that our assortments are appropriate, as Adrian talked about, making sure that our inventory is accurately allocated between the channels and getting into a more normalized environment where we're not up against as many discontinued private brands.

Thank you.

Good to be with you, Chuck. I think the comment about the decline in fourth quarter transactions, was more pronounced at Macy's than had Bloomingdale's or Bluemercury, although all segments are under pressure. And the decision is more today about buying those things that people are looking for that sometimes are a higher AUR and then we get fewer units versus customers not shopping. So we're really trying to follow the customer in this regard, make sure that the inventories are shifted to where we see the business happening. It's always one of the advantages, I think, of being a multi-category and multi-brand retailer is that we have the opportunity to have content, where, when and how the customer shops as long as we're paying attention to the most important signals.

Look, it's a process that every merchant and every planning partner has to go through in order to have the most compelling assortment in every category. We work in multiple seasons at one time. We're obviously executing the spring season, planning the fall season and in some areas are beginning to buy the spring 25 season. So I would say it's a multi-season exercise but it's not a multiyear exercise. It starts with the ability to kind of ebb and flow or shrink or grow depending on what's happening in the particular business segment. When something occurs where jackets are important or blazers are important, you want to have a more robust assortment of blazers. And when you return to a moment where sweaters are more important, you need to downsize the amount of blazers you carry and augment the amount of sweaters. And you don't want to have all black sweaters and you don't want all of them to be embellish. So the ability to kind of look at your assortment as the customer will see it, make sure that you're serving a multigenerational customer with a variety of price points, understanding where brand is important where price is important and where style may be important. And sometimes it's all three. But I think in my kind of learning and listening with the Macy's team over the last six to eight months, the team is really leaning into this. I think you'll see the assortments improve as we move sequentially through the quarters this year and then make meaningful improvement as we get into 2025.

Thank you, operator. We look forward to updating all of you on our Bold New Chapter strategy progress in the coming quarters. I hope everyone has a great day.