Vimal Kapur
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Thank you, Greg. Let's take a minute to zoom out from the near-term dynamics and talk about how our financial algorithm translates into value through EPS growth. Last May, we unveiled our updated long-term financial growth algorithm. One of the strengths of that framework is that we have demonstrated that we can balance between the levers we have to deliver what matters, consistent, compelling EPS growth. Let me unpack this for a moment.

Our annual 4% to 7% organic sales growth and 40 basis point to 60 basis point of margin expansion alone will deliver 6% to 10% of organic EPS growth. Some years, one or other of these elements move. But as you have seen, 6% to 10% delivery has been consistent hallmark of Honeywell. When coupled with 1% to 2% of EPS accretion from both share buyback and consistent M&A execution, we are confident we'll deliver double-digit adjusted EPS growth at the midpoint on a [true] (ph) cycle basis. The strength of our dividend currently yielding about 2% also adds further value to our shareholder returns.

Although there has been some noise in the results, mostly related to below the line, we have delivered 8% segment profit growth and 2% adjusted EPS accretion from the share repurchases on an average during the past few years, in line with the long-term financial framework. Now, we are ramping our M&A lever, which should drive incremental benefits.

With that, let's go to the next page to discuss our recent progress on this long-term growth algorithm. As you can see on Slide 10, our 2023 results represent another year of strong financial performance consistent with our framework, following meaningful progress since 2016, inorganic growth, gross margin, segment margin expansion, and free cash flow reacceleration. Similarly, our 2024 expectation for organic growth, gross margin, segment margin, and free cash flow margins are solidly in line with our long-term commitment as we continue to make steady, consistent improvement in quality of Honeywell's financial profile. We are reorienting the organization to prioritize organic growth, deploying the operational power of Accelerator 3.0, and executing on a robust portfolio optimization strategy, which will enable us to achieve our long-term targets.

I look forward to the next phase of transformation and remain optimistic about the tremendous opportunities we are uncovering to capture value, drive incremental sales growth, expand margins, and generate more cash. We'll continue to track our progression closely and update you as these efforts increasingly transfer into our enhanced financial performance.

Now, let's turn to Slide 11 for closing thoughts before we move to Q&A session. We delivered on all of our 2023 commitments. We are confident in our ability to weather the dynamic macroeconomic and geopolitical backdrop with operating rigor you have come to expect of Honeywell. Recent record backlog levels, ongoing strength in our biggest end markets, aerospace and energy, as well as impending recovery in our short-cycle business will support strong result as we progress through 2024.

I remain optimistic about the future of Honeywell and believe the company is well-positioned to drive the innovation needed to solve some of the world's most challenging problems. The future is really what we make it.

With that, Sean, let's move to Q&A.

Hey, Steve.

Yes, Steve. So we had a quarter 4 finish in which our buildings orders were grew across all segments, both in building products and in building solutions. So that puts us in a good setup for 2024. To your specific question, the setup we have allows us to see sequential progress in the short cycle as the year progresses, and the front end of the year will see more strength in our solution side of the business. Europe remains challenged, as it was, over the last several quarters. And in US, we are in the late innings of destocking of the distributor inventories.

So that's the overall setting. What excites me about the business is the work we have done on new products, that's going to position us well, our strength in high growth regions, which is performing exceedingly well. So net-net, we remain pretty confident on growth in building solutions, building automation business in 2024, specifically margin expansion and are confident of delivering strong results there.

What I'll add, Julian is, if I look at the full year picture for the margin expansion, what we have committed 30 basis points to 60 basis points, there are three broad drivers. The pricing will remain of the order of 3%. Our price cost will not be a headwind. We remain very confident on our pricing execution. Second, we will see good productivity in 2024. Material productivity remains strong in Q4 and we expect that to roll up on a full year basis in 2024. We also have made good progress in executing AI in our operation, and that will be also a source of productivity in 2024. And finally, the short cycle recovery point, which Greg made, as that unpacks itself, the margin accretion we have on that is pretty substantial. So when you put it all together, we remain extremely confident on our margin expansion algorithm.

Maybe to add to Greg's point on warehouse solutions business, the top line has been challenging, but I see that this as not a headwind for EPS in 2024. We have taken action that Greg spoke about aftermarket. The aftermarket continues to be strong and will be a factor of growth in 2024. We have taken meaningful action on our cost base, specifically on supply chain. And when we put those actions together, which is in our control, we see margin expansion in this business. And in spite of top line pressure, it will not be a source of EPS solution. It will be a source of EPS accretion.

Good morning.

Yes, thanks, Scott. So, specifically talking about -- let me start with China. We grew about 7% in 2023. I don't expect a material shift between 2024 to 2023. We have weathered a tough year in 2023, China's economic cycle. And I expect 2024 to be a shade better, but it's no more going to be a source of high growth, what it used to be five or seven years back.

Speaking more broadly of high growth regions, which represents almost 25% of the Honeywell revenue now. We had very good performance in Middle East and India in particular, and we expect those trends to continue in 2024. India grew for us high double digits. In 2023, we had very meaningful revenue there, similar good performance in the Middle East, so we expect those regions to perform well. All in all, I expect high-growth regions to grow double-digit, which will be a source of organic growth, about a percent, and overall Honeywell algorithm of organic growth.

Europe remains challenging. We have seen headwinds in some portions of our businesses and tailwinds in some other portions. So net-net, it's more neutral to negative. And US, of course, we are like everybody else, waiting for interest rate environment to settle. And that will determine the performance of our business, specifically on the short cycle. So that's kind of my broad overview of how we see different geographies.

I would call it bolt-on, because my argument is that, bolt-on to me is which is adding to our core portfolio and propels the growth of organic growth of the business itself. So that's what this business is. If you see our Buildings Products business, our strategy is to have products which are specified, which are critical for the building. We had a moderate position in security with the addition of this portfolio makes us a meaningful player. And therefore I call it a bolt-on, because it's a continuum of our strategy. We're not finding a new adjacency. We're not exploring some new idea. It's something we understand extremely well. And therefore, our confidence to add shareholder value here is extremely strong.

Sure, Andrew. So 2023 revenue is 1% growth. It's primarily driven by equipment revenue we had in the prior year. We had large equipment-based projects in our volume, LNG projects. So on a year-on-year comp basis, don't repeat itself. But if you see the core UOP business on catalysts, it remains pretty strong. Your specific question on sustainability technologies, as we mentioned during our earnings earlier, remain very confident on its performance. We crossed the benchmark of 50 licenses of sustainable aviation fuel just a few weeks back. Now we are seeing activity in carbon capture projects, early innings on hydrogen projects. So our plans to have sustainable technology business of $1 billion in next few years haven't changed. And my confidence of that absolutely has only grown higher over the last few months.

Yes. Thanks, Andrew. Yes, we do see recovery in semis modestly increasing. Every month is becoming modestly better. So that's part of our forecast for 2024. We also saw in Q4 recovery in some segments of chemicals in short cycle. And we expect that to roll over in 2024. So the short cycle recovery on a broader Honeywell portfolio is not a one event. So it's going to happen in different portions. So chemicals happened late Q4 and we expect that to continue. So all-in-all, advanced material should have a better year in 2024 compared to what we had in 2023.

Thank you.

Yes. So for IA and ESS, I would say, IA broadly, as we said, will be flatish on a year-on-year basis. The strength we see there is in Process Solutions, in particular, that -- it had a strong 2023, we expect another strong 2024 from Process Solutions. Rest of IA is a short-cycle recovery. We saw pockets of that happening in Q4 in our scanning and mobility business. Now other portions have to also recover during course of the year. I talked about our warehouse automation business and how we expect that to perform during course of the year, specifically on the margin side. So that's definitely is part of our forecast.

On ESS, we briefly talked an earlier question. UOP is carrying a pretty strong booking and backlog. So we expect a good year from UOP in 2024. And then I talked about advanced materials a bit earlier there. On orders rate, the Q4 orders were up 1%, which helped us to further bolster our backlog now to record high level. Specifically on orders, there were highlights on short cycles, early green shoots in building products, in scanning and mobility business, in parts of chemicals business, which is a good sign, because if couple have shown, I remain confident this will grow more broadly across our portfolio. Long cycle strong bookings in commercial aerospace, in UOP, in process solutions. There were some lumpy lessened orders in warehouse automation and defense and space, which I talked earlier. So net-net, our long cycle orders performed extremely well on an annualized basis in 2023. And short cycle is showing early cycle of recovery, which gives me confidence for 2024.

Hey, Sheila.

Yes. So Sheila, we expect the overall low double-digit guide includes the continued high growth rate of OE, as we saw in 2023. That will repeat itself in 2024. Also expect double-digit growth in aftermarket. Defense, we perform at low single to mid-single digit in 2023, the supply chain constraint remains the biggest handle there. And as we make progress, we expect it to perform in that range in 2024 also. But the biggest unlock for us is supply chain. We have demonstrated a strong performance in 2023. We expect a good start of the year and we'll unpack the year as the things progress.

Yes. The biggest variable is the short cycle recovery and the pace of it, which remains variable. I mean, you look at 2024 setup for Honeywell in three buckets. Our backlog is up 8% and we convert backlog at a pretty predictable rate. So that's something which is highly deterministic. Number two, the self-help actions we are driving to drive growth. The self-help action includes price, that includes new products. I talked about high-growth regions, aftermarket services. All that is going to help us to drive growth regardless of the market. And then the third variable is short cycle. If it returns quicker, we'll have an upper end of the growth or we can beat it if it surprises everybody and vice versa. If they doesn't perform well during the course of the year, then we are at the lower end of the guide.

Good morning, Andy.

Yep. So I would say that our capital deployment strategy would be balanced, which maximizes shareholder return. That's what we're really targeting for. It will be the balance, as Greg mentioned earlier, we expect both M&A and share repurchases to be part of that element for 2024 and years to come.

The pipeline is adequate at this point of time and activity remains strong. So we are constantly looking at the deals which work in our algorithm. It has to be bolt-on. It has to help to drive our overall organic growth and generally meet our financial algorithm which we have earlier talked about. On the part of the portfolio, which doesn't fit in well, we are going to drive action starting 2024. Of course, we are not going to rush through that, because we need to capture shareholder value, but you can anticipate some initial actions on that during 2024.

Look, I mean, there are -- there is a volume growth there, which will continue and the volume leverage gets offset by the OE mix, which I talked earlier, the OE mix remains strong. But we are also ending investing into aerospace. The volume growth is not coming accidentally. We have invested into our supply chain operations, supplier recovery, which is demonstrating the continuous volume growth occurred in 2023 and 2024. So when you put those facts together, that really drives the margin forecast for Aero at this point.

Thank you.

Yes, I can start there and Greg can join. Look the pipeline, if I compare simple facts, our pipeline in Jan of 2024 compared to Jan of 2023 for warehouse automation projects, it's up nearly 30%. So what it tells us is that, the basic value proposition and the long-term trend of warehouse automation are intact. But customers willingness to invest in this very tight market or uncertain market is what is holding them back for making capital decisions. So we remain absolutely convicted on this business and the foundational actions we have taken on continue to grow our aftermarket, they are really paying off. I mean, our aftermarket businesses crossed $0.5 billion mark in 2023. We expect double digit growth in aftermarket in 2024. And you can expect the business almost cupping a half project and half aftermarket in this year. So as the market confidence returns, we'll see the growth back, and that's supported by the pipeline we have and activity in the market.

Thank you.

Good morning, Joe.

No, as I mentioned before, we expect the front end of the year growth to be more driven by solutions side of the business. We are carrying forward meaningful backlog, both in projects and services. And as the year progresses, we expect short cycle recovery to be the key factor for growth as the year passes along. And net-net, we expect low single digit growth in building technologies, but strong margin expansion. Our commercial excellence actions are in place and we remain confident that we're going to have a meaningful progress in the year, both on growth and margin expansion.

Thank you. I want to thank all our shareholders for your ongoing support and our Honeywell colleagues who continue to enable us to outperform in any environment. Our future is bright and we look forward to updating you on our progress as we execute on our commitments. Thank you very much for listening and please stay safe and healthy.