Willie Chiang
Plains GP Holdings, L.P. (PAGP) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Hi, Michael.

Yeah. Michael, this is Willie. The 275,000, maybe for clarity, it’s composed of two factors. One, the M&A, the bolt-on transaction volumes that we added last year, and that’s about 150,000 barrels a day, and then growth from the growing basin, which is about 125,000 barrels a day.

And on the Western volumes, Jeremy, do you want to comment on that?

Hey, Brian. This is Willie. Maybe I’ll add something to what Al said. When you think about the evolution of where we are. I’m not saying anything people don’t know, but it’s pretty remarkable where the industry has gone as far as shifting to an export market. A lot of capital has gone into the industry in the last decade and, I think, what we’re seeing right now is really kind of a change in the business cycle focus on returns, which really is going to reinforce more opportunities for asset sales, consolidation, and really to address your question I do think there are going to be more opportunities in there and, frankly, we just need to be very patient and capture it.

Our asset base as you know is well situated to be able to capture synergies across the system. In many of the basins we operate, but particularly the Permian and the key now is to stay very disciplined and at the right valuations, I think we can add bolt-ons as we did last year.

Thanks, Brian.

And Keith, just to make a – reinforce the point that Jeremy made. Many people we talk to think that – our partners could disappear. We’ve got great partners on this line, folks that are shipping, and so the way I would couch this is, we’ve got a great relationship with our partners and the shippers on the line, and this is just a normal course of business that you have to go on, on renegotiation and negotiations as far as term and tariff.

Yeah, so market-based opportunities, you can’t predict them. They’re very difficult to figure out when something might happen. Some of this is weather, some of its other asset rely on and there’s all kinds of things that factor into this. And we’ve been pretty conscious of not trying to forecast in a large capture for things that we don’t know that’s going to happen. So one of the fundamental changes this year is we have, not we, but the industry has Trans Mountain that’s starting up that could impact the opportunities for crude market opportunities. So we factor all this in.

And to answer your question, we don’t have a tremendous amount of – we have a modest amount of market opportunities that we have captured that we think we can probably catch. The answer is, if there are opportunities out there, it’s in our ethos and DNA to capture markets. We’ve got the broad assets in a company with people that focus on this every day. And so, if there are opportunities out there, we’ll capture it. But it’s very difficult to predict exactly where they happen.

And, again, this year’s budget is based on a modest amount of market opportunities. And that’s frankly why we move towards the range to give people kind of a range of thought of what those might be. I hope that helps.

Thank you.

Hey, Sunil, this is Willie. I don’t know if you were on earlier, but the overall gathering volume increases are 275,000 barrels a day. 150,000 of it’s from the bolt-ons that we did. The remainder of the growth, 125,000, is really all Delaware Basin growth.

Sunil, that’s probably something we’re not going to comment on all of what ifs. I can assure you that we look at, we run models on all kinds of different things. We look at all the different assets and opportunities to create value for our unitholders. And on the same token, we look to optimize our own asset basis as we’ve proven over the last number of years. So it’s a dynamic activity that happens every day. It’s really hard to focus on valuations in different basins. So we’ll have to – maybe we can follow-up with you on the offline and see if we can answer your question a little bit better.

Thank you.

Yeah, Neal, remember, we do a top down assessment. We also have our connection forecast. It’s kind of a bottoms up. And so we factor all that together, and that’s where we got our number from.

Theresa, this is Willie. It is a complex question that’s hard to put a pen to. What I can assure you is that, we have a very flexible system and that wherever flows will go, I think we’ll be able to adapt to that and capture value perhaps in different parts of our system. Long-term, I look at this as very constructive, because with more takeaway capacity to the West Coast, I think it allows a better price signal to producers to be able to produce more short-term. We could see some headwinds, but I can assure you that, we’ll adapt to that. Whatever the markets are, we’re going to try to look and see how we can use our assets to capture value.

Thanks, Theresa.

Hi, Timm.

Well, Timm, short answer on the question. For upstream consolidation and the impact on Plains with our asset base and the relationships we have, I don’t think it’s going to be a material impact on us. We work with, if not all, most of the large players. So we’ve got volumes that flow on our systems today, and they’re tied with contracts. And the way I think about it is if you have stronger counterparties in tougher environments, we’re fine if they want to develop the Permian in a more thoughtful and efficient way, because we’re a long-term company and we want to be around for a long time. So whether or not the production comes this year, next year or the following year, the stability is probably a very positive thing for us.

And then, when you think about the midstream, my observations are, I do think the upstream is a bit ahead of us. I do think there will be some more consolidation. Assets are probably the easiest way to go. And, again, as you look at the landscape, there has been some M&A in the midstream, but I think we are in the part of the business cycle where there are more opportunities to be bigger and be stronger. Not that we aren’t a large enterprise, but we’ll evaluate different opportunities as we go, always with the unitholder in mind.

Thanks to all of you for your interest in Plains, and we will look forward to updating you as the year progresses. Everyone have a nice weekend. Thank you.