William Hornbuckle
MGM Resorts International (MGM) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript

Let me give some broad stroke and then Corey and Jonathan both kick in. Look, F1, when you balance it out year-over-year was $50 million to $70 million. It was actually a $70 million increase year-over-year. But if I neutralize the year before, it was about $50 million. We didn't run lucky the year before. Super Bowl was amazing. It did -- we were always concerned. We do great Superbowl parties here. Will it be the kind of event that will drive given the additional expense of the tickets, et cetera, the answer was hands down, yes, and particularly rooms. And it roll them across the board, unlike where F1 was isolated to our premium properties. Super Bowl drove it across the board. We had thousands of people in all of our ballrooms in the MGM Grand Garden enjoying the game and enjoying the festivities. And so it was a really successful universal event. Las Vegas showed up, and I think we all did a tremendous job hosting it. And where I was skeptical going in, I would look to clearly want to host this again. I think on pricing when it comes to Formula 1, we're going to be more cautious at some of the outlier properties that we have. We got paid for Bellagio, Aria, Cosmopolitan along the track and we got paid well. I think if you go further away you've got from the track with a couple of exceptions, MGM held in there well because of its adjacency to the panic, there's opportunity to do that better and get more and get more people back into the town.

No. Look, I was at ICE last week, I met with Stella, our partner. We're still very focused on making sure everyone focuses on BetMGM. And particularly, this is a critical year I think for all of us. So it's about product, product, product and focus. And so that remains the focus for now.

Let me kick it off. Kenny, I'll turn it over to you. Some of this is simple activity case, to your point. I mean, we have done like all the operatives a good job going after some of the -- I'll use our concert that we just had is a great example of an expansion and overhead item, but to drive overall tourism with Bruno Mars , et cetera. So part of it's adhering to that. Kenny, why don't you give some more color there?

And I might add -- Kenny, I just might add. Look, contracts are growing as our high volume continues to increase because again that's on us versus a junket operative in the middle of that. And I remind everybody on our margins, in particular, we do not -- I wish we did, but we do not have a large retail segment, which obviously, there is a massive amount of flow-through if you're making a $100 million a year in rent, which I know some of our competitors are, the flow-through on that is a lot. We don't have that luxury so it does impact some of our margins.

Sure, David. I'll take that. Look, I think the answer is yes, you're spot-on. This will be a reinvestment year. Obviously, you've seen we've lost share, literally, in both instances. And the two folks that sit above us were being outspent 2, 2.5 to 1 in terms of raw marketing spend in dollars. We want and need to get our product in a better and different shape. We want more parlays. Obviously, the acquisition of Angstrom by our partner will be a big add to that. We'll be able to stick out more product, we'll have more confidence in it, speed to market will be better, et cetera. And so that's part of what will be developed starting with baseball this year. We hope by the time we hit football next year, a lot of the product differentiators we hope to have will be in play. We hope to have a single wallet in play, as I mentioned in my prepared comments, this spring here. But ultimately, a development year this year, begin to see making some cash next year, and I'm suggesting that by 2026, we're going to have a very strong first year of -- this is where this business is going and should be.

David, I would only echo what I said. Look, with Stella as the interim CEO, the focus on the team for product for BetMGM is the focus. I don't want to comment on any other further discussion with them at this point. I don't think it'd be prudent.

Thank you.

Conventions.

We've got just top line, off the top of my head, Madonna's coming, Springsteen's coming, The Stones are coming, to name three. We've got a great football kickoff with USC, LSU coming. To your point, obviously, March Madness is always a big deal around here. And then Formula 1 rolls back around again. We are going to miss the Pac-12 championship next year. No, we've got one more year, I take that back, so we won't miss that. And so we all must admit, 2023, and if you think about the recent stretch we've just been through, was an amazing year and an amazing stretch. So replicating that won't be easy. But having said that, we still have plenty of content and activity case that kind of fill the void and fill the dates.

Well, I'll tell you one thing and Corey can pick this up. But the flow-through, or the spill-off, I should say, from the 100,000 more room nights principally at Mandalay for conference and convention business does flow into Luxor with setup crews, pieces and parts of these various groups, even in the Excalibur. So I think that's an opportunistic thing. Obviously, whether it's resort fees on through, we've gone through with a pricing exercise. We'll continue to do that to try to recapture, particularly the culinary increase, which we all know this year is going to be an extensive one. Then it falls off and basically flattens out for the balance of the 4.5 years. So Corey, anything?

Sure. We contemplated four key pillars to getting and setting up our own shop, if you will. And so we bought LeoVegas with that in mind. We've obviously now gone and bought Push Gaming, which is a content studio. By the way, their first game, MGM Millions, or MGM Money Millions, whatever it's called, number one game on our network, number one, first game out, branded with MGM. We are on the heels of buying Sports Technology. We want to obviously be in our own sports betting business with our own technology. And over time, we have Kambi that we use for LeoVegas. We are on the heels of a deal for Live Dealer where we've talked about and had a vision of broadcasting live games from Las Vegas to rest of world with some celebrities and entertainment tied to them, and we're on the heels of that. I'm heading down to South America next week or the week after to look at a large JV. Brazil is going to put Internet gaming in play for both casino and sports betting, and we plan to be there when that launches. And so we're focused on building that business at its core into a real business. We've taken BetMGM U.K., as we've talked about. We've got well over 100,000 first-time depositors already in the 4.5 short months. And we're looking at another country already to do the same thing. And so we're going to grow the business. And if we ultimately acquire something else, time to tell, but for now staying focused on that is paramount to us.

Kenny, maybe you could speak to this more intelligently, but I can tell you broad stroke, remember, the requirement we have, we have to spend $1.1 billion in 10-year commitment in OpEx driving tourism, and there's about $900 million or so in actual capital expense. So we've got a little over $2 billion commitment to the government, of which the $1.1 billion is pure OpEx. And so a lot of the activity case in driving international tourism and driving tourism isn't necessarily tied to the usual marketing programs that we'd think about in gaming.

Look, it's interesting. It just started, as you know. So we have high hopes for it. We had literally 100 million people, when they flipped on X yesterday, day before, are going to be exposed to that offering and that opportunity. That team is probably much better positioned to give you some input on what they think the outcome is going to be. I can remember from the various presentations that if you captured about 0.1% of those folks, it was a significant uptick to the company, and it's efficient. The way we've structured this deal compared to other even general bonusing, it's an extremely efficient deal for us. So we'll see. Our customers live there. But everyone was on X, I guess, but we particularly think the demographic fits well for what we do.

Yes, this is Bill. No, I wish there was. I know they're going through some of these zoning things by all of the boroughs. I think, ultimately, we're going to wait and see what happens. I suspect they're going to wait and see what happens there. It may make a decision for them. And then in fact, they'll come back to us with the round two questions, and then that gives our 90-day clock going. But we're hopeful, by the middle of this year, we get something submitted and that by the end of '24, something is awarded. But we don't know anymore, unfortunately.

Very interesting question. We've been thinking about that, talking about it. For us, obviously, the place to invest capital, first and foremost, if in fact that all happens, is MGM. I mean it's our brand. It's our name's sake. It's on the corner of Las Vegas Boulevard drop. It would literally be adjacent to the stadium, and it needs some love. It's a 30-year-old property. We're going to reinvest in the rooms this year. We've got some new show concepts. We've done a few restaurants. But the front end of the property, as you get closer to Las Vegas Boulevard, needs some attention and some reprogramming. We're waiting to see where that lands. I have to believe, in the next 30 to 60 days, we should find out more. I've been shown three versions of it now in terms of where it will actually sit on the site and how it will connect. Once it settles in, we'll get serious about what we might want to do and how we might want to communicate with it, if you will, in terms of pedestrian traffic, et cetera. But that's how to think about where we might go first is really MGM and see how it all plays out.

As I think we suggested last year, we spent some time on the ground there, specifically in Abu Dhabi, trying to understand the license in general for U.A.E., but ultimately, the opportunity in Abu Dhabi. We believe it would be on the Yas Island. That opportunity still exists. To the extent there is a submission to be had, we may participate in that. Obviously, we have Dubai. We have our project there, which is an amazing project. It's going to be over a $2.5 billion project without a casino in it. And so if and when both Abu Dhabi itself as the general license granter for all or any of the Emirates goes, and then ultimately, one by one, the Emirates say they would like it, we hope to be positioned either for Dubai or Abu Dhabi, but time to tell. And it may start with digital first, a lottery, potentially digital.

No. Look, I think the answer is yes. I think we've budgeted to that. We've convinced our Board of that. We're incentivized to do that. And I think the answer is yes. Obviously, '23 was an amazing year. We've got some headwinds with particularly labor costs. But there's enough programming out there, enough momentum that, in macro, we think we surpass. And so it's not going to be like double-digit, I can assure you, but I think we surpass.

Thank you, operator. Thank you all for joining us today. Just a couple of thoughts. I mentioned this word earlier, again, resiliency, our troops have demonstrated, so I again want to thank them. '23 was an incredible year. We had an all-time EBITDA year, seven of our properties continue to break records, and so we're anxious for the future. Macau is well positioned. We've ended up in a great space in digital, and we're in the game for real for the long haul, and so you'll see us continue to do that. And we launched our own digital brand and business in rest of world, and so excited by it, excited by the balance sheet and the development opportunities. Remember in '23, Japan came our way, which is one and only and a very unique thing for the company in the long term. And so we're excited by that and potentially the opportunity that New York may bring. So '23 was a great year. We hope to replicate it and then some in '24. And we thank you for your time.